SHERIDAN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-30-24
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS OF
SHERIDAN, INDIANA
TOWN OFFICIALS
Elizabeth A. Walden, Clerk-Treasurer
Tony Craig, Police Chief
Michael Nielsen, Police Chief
Scott Kirby, Director of Public Works
Jennifer Miller, Planning Director
Michelle Jenkins, Director of Administration
TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS
Silas DeVaney III, President
Eric Gifford, Vice President
Daniel Bragg
David Kinkead
Levi Schrock
Floyd Barker
Ron Stone
 
CONTACT INFORMATION

Town of Sheridan
506 South Main Street
Sheridan IN 46069
 
Tel: (317) 758-5293
Fax: (317) 758-2505
Website: Sheridan.in.gov
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 1993-4-1
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Town of Sheridan are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the town; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town Council to revise, amend, restate, codify and to compile any
existing ordinance or ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate said ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan
that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Sheridan as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Sheridan."
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
                        Title I      General Provisions
                        Title III      Administration
                        Title V      Public Works
                        Title VII      Traffic Code
                        Title IX      General Regulations
                        Title XI      Business Regulations
                        Title XIII   General Offenses
                        Title XV      Land Usage
                        Tables of Special Ordinances
                        Parallel References
                        Index
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets,
alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Sheridan is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the Office of the
Town Clerk.
Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect     weeks from the date
of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and said Code
shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan, this     day of
       , 19  .
ATTEST:
ORDINANCE NO. 1994-6-1
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1994 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan,
State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1994 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Sheridan, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 14th day of June, 1994.
                                                   John Snethen /s/
                                                   President
Attest:
Connie Pearson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 1995-6-1
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1995 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan,
State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1995 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Sheridan, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 6th day of June, 1995.
                                                   John Snethen /s/
                                                   President
Attest:
Connie Pearson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 97-8-3
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, IN. AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF SHERIDAN, IN.;
Section 1.   That the S4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 12th day of August, 1997.
ATTEST:
Connie Pearson /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1997 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Town of Sheridan; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN:
Section 1.   That the 1997 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Sheridan
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan on this 10th day
of March, 1998.
ATTEST:
Connie Pearson /s/                           John Snethen /s/  
Clerk-Treasurer
                                    Michael A. Harwood /s/
                                    Dennis Griffin /s/
ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2000 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
of Sheridan and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN:
Section 1.   That the 2000 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Sheridan
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan on this 25 day
of April, 2000.
John Snethen /s/                          Larry W. Sutton /s/
President                                     Member
Michael A. Harwood /s/                          Connie Pearson /s/
Member                        ATTEST:       Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2001-5-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2001 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Town of Sheridan; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN OF
SHERIDAN:
Section 1.   That the 2001 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Sheridan is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan on this 22nd day
of May, 2001.
John Snethen /s/                          Larry W. Sutton /s/
President                                     Member
Michael A. Harwood /s/                          Connie Pearson /s/
Member                        ATTEST:       Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2004-6-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Town of Sheridan; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN OF
SHERIDAN:
Section 1.   That the 2004 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Sheridan is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Sheridan on this 8th day
of June, 2004.
John Snethen /s/                      
President                                    
Thomas Burton /s/                            Connie Pearson /s/
Member                        ATTEST:      Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2012-6-2
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, the Town of Sheridan is governed by its duly elected Town Council
(“Council”); and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 S-12 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan (“Town”), which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Town of Sheridan; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana and by the
Council’s legislative authority under Indiana Code § 36-5-2-9; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the Town that this Ordinance take effect as soon
as permitted under Indiana law;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE SHERIDAN TOWN COUNCIL THAT:
Section 1.   That the 2012 S-16 Supplement to the code of Ordinances of the
Town of Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Sheridan Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of
Sheridan is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Town of Sheridan, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
The Town Council of Sheridan, Hamilton County, Indiana
   AYE                                       NAY
Glen Bougher /s/    Glen
Bougher,                                                                              
                              President
David Kinkead /s/    David
Kinkead                                                                             
                              Vice President
Silas Devaney /s/    Silas
Devaney,                                                                              
                              Member
Steve Fishers /s/    Steve
Fishers,                                                                              
                              Member
Brenda Bush /s/    Brenda
Bush,                                                                              
                              Member
ATTEST:    Elizabeth A. Walden /s/       DATE:  6/28/12
          Elizabeth A. Walden
         Clerk-Treasurer
         Town of Sheridan, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-04
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-18 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Sheridan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Town of Sheridan; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHERIDAN:
Section 1.   That the 2020 S-18 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Sheridan as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
of Sheridan is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Passed and adopted by the legislative authority of the political subdivision on
this 14th day of September, 2020.
The Town Council of Sheridan, Hamilton County, Indiana
   AYE                                        NAY
Silas DeVaney III /s/     Silas DeVaney
III,                                                                      
                              President
Steve Fisher /s/     Steve
Fisher                                                                                
                              Vice President
Bill Curl /s/    Bill
Curl,                                                                                 
                              Member
David Kinkead /s/     David
Kinkead,                                                                              
                              Member
Darryl Waters /s/     Darryl
Waters,                                                                              
                              Member
ATTEST:    Elizabeth A. Walden /s/
         Elizabeth A. Walden
         Clerk-Treasurer
         Town of Sheridan, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Publication of code
   
10.20   Incorporation of material by reference
   
10.21   Conflicting provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Sheridan shall be
designated as the Code of Sheridan and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Hamilton County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TOWN COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the town.
   TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Sheridan, Indiana.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Town
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this town for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Town Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Town Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
   (C)   The Town Council shall, from time to time, provide for the compilation
of supplement volumes incorporating or reflecting any additions to, amendments
or repeals of the provisions of this code enacted subsequent to its original
adoption. A code supplement volume shall be published in the same manner as the
original code, as provided in division (A) above. ('85 Code, § 1-2-10)
   (D)   Unless a supplementary ordinance includes a provision delaying its
effectiveness to a specified date, or provides for or increases the penalty for
violation of any penal provision of this code and is so required to be
published or promulgated before taking effect, pursuant to IC 36-5-2-10(b),
then the supplementary ordinance shall be effective and the code shall be
considered as concurrently amended, upon the passage, signature and recording
of the supplementary ordinance as provided by law. If a supplementary ordinance
is required to be published or promulgated in accordance with IC 36-5-2-10(b),
it shall not be effective until:
      (1)   The ordinance or substantive digest thereof setting forth the
penalties is published in accordance with IC 36-5-2-10(b) and IC 5-3-1; or,
      (2)   The provisions of the supplementary ordinance are included in a
code supplement volume, which is compiled and published in accordance with
division (C) above, as provided by IC 36-5-2-10(b)(1); or,
      (3)   A provision of the supplementary ordinance declares an emergency
and copies of the adopted ordinance are posted in accordance with IC 36-5-2-10
(b)(2).
('85 Code, § 1-2-11)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (IC 36-4-5-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Council.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see IC 36-4-5-3.
§ 10.19 PUBLICATION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is declared a public document and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
provide for the making of printed copies thereof in booklet form and for the
publication of copies by the town or by a private publisher so any person who
desires to obtain a copy for his use and information may do so.
   (B)   The production of the printed code in booklet form and publication
thereof by making copies available for public acquisition and distribution, as
provided in this section, is for the purpose of and shall be construed to
fulfill all printing and publication requirements as provided by IC 36-1-5-
5 and IC 36-5-2-10(b)(1).
      (1)   If the printed code is published and made available through the
town, the Clerk- Treasurer shall establish and collected a charge for each
copy, which charge shall be sufficient to recoup the costs to the town incurred
for the printing of the code volume and the administrative costs of
publication.
      (2)   If the printed code is published and made available by and through
a private publisher, the private publisher may establish and charge a
reasonable price for each copy of the code ordered by a member of the public.
   (C)   At least one copy of the printed code shall be filed and kept in the
office of the Clerk- Treasurer and the Clerk-Treasurer shall permit any person
wishing to do so to examine the code or make copies of any part thereof, as
provided by IC 5-14-3-8.
('85 Code, § 1-1-6)
§ 10.20 INCORPORATION OF MATERIAL BY REFERENCE.
   When the text of any materials are incorporated into and made a substantive
part of any provision of this code or a supplementary ordinance by reference,
rather than being directly set forth, those materials are declared to be and
are made public documents and two copies of each such complete document or of
that portion thereof so incorporated by reference shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer and made available for public inspection and
copying in the same manner as other public documents. However, this requirement
does not apply to instances where a statute or similar law or written
regulation, already being a promulgated public document, is cited or referenced
merely for the purpose of establishing legal basis or authority, legal
procedure or legal precedent incident to the implementation or administration
of a provision of this code; nor to instances where some such document or
portion thereof is not incorporated as an actual substantive part of the
provision but is cited or referred to merely for the purpose of establishing
administrative guidelines, standards, or procedures incidental to the
administration of the substantive parts of the provision.
('85 Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 10.21 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event two provisions of this code or any supplementary
ordinance are conflicting, mutually contradictory or cannot consistently stand
together and be coherently applied, either in general or with respect to any
particular matter, then the most recently enacted provision shall prevail and
be applied. In the case of any two such conflicting provisions of this code
which are re- enacted or restated provisions of any prior ordinances, the most
recently enacted provision is that provision which was formerly part of the
most recently adopted prior ordinance, notwithstanding the fact the prior
ordinance, per se, may have been repealed. ('85 Code, § 1-2-7)
   (B)   This code is, in all respects, subordinate to the laws of the state,
except to the extent that any law expressly makes a provision of this code
superior; and except in such case, if any provision of this code is found to be
prohibited by or in conflict with a provision of any state statute, whether the
statute was enacted prior or subsequent to the enactment of the prohibited or
conflicting code provision, then the provision of this statute shall prevail.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Town Council from
enacting any provision which is collateral or supplementary to a statute and
any such provision shall be invalid only if and to the extent that it is
overtly consistent with a prescriptive or proscriptive provision of the
statute, preempts the actual field of operation of a statute, impairs or denies
a right, privilege or power conferred on any person by a statute, prevents or
impairs any person from performing a duty or other act required to be performed
by a statute or contravenes the purpose for which a statute was enacted by the
General Assembly; but provided further that no such collateral or supplementary
provision shall fix or apply a penalty of fine or other forfeiture for any act
or condition which is also a penal violation of any statute.
('85 Code, § 1-2-8)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding:
      (1)   More than $2,500 for a first violation; and
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3), more than $7,500 for a
second or subsequent violation.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to the violation of an
ordinance that regulates traffic or parking.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(IC 36-1-3-8(a)(10))
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
   
11.02   Town boundaries
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   The official town seal shall consist of two concentric circles, the outer
circle being inscribed with the words, “Town of Sheridan, Indiana” and the
inner circle containing the word, “Seal.”
('85 Code, § 2-9-4) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85)
§ 11.02 TOWN BOUNDARIES.
   The following described territory is hereby defined to be the entire
corporate boundaries of the town:
   Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 5, Township 19 North, Range 3
East (intersection of centerline of State Road 47 (10th Street) and the
centerline of Mule Barn Road); thence south on and along the west line of said
Section 5 (Mule Barn Road) 325 feet, more or less, to a point on the westward
projection of the first fence south of the northwest corner; thence easterly on
and along the fence line to the west line of Georgia Street as established by
the plat of Azra Smith Second Addition; thence southerly on and along the west
line of Georgia Street to the south line of the addition, thence easterly on
and along the south line and the easterly projection thereof to the west line
of Sheridan Glass and Manufacturing Addition; thence north on and along the
west line of the addition to a point 16.5 feet west of the southwest corner of
Lot #36 in that addition, the point being on the north line of Brick Street
extended west; thence east on and along the north line of Brick Street and the
eastward projection thereof to the easterly right-of-way of the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad (Monon); thence southeasterly on and along the right-of-way
line to the south line of Sheridan Memorial Park; thence east on and along the
south line of the park 617.55 feet to the east line thereof; thence north and
along the east line 718.00 feet to the centerline of State Road 38 (Lafayette
Road) thence northwesterly on and along the centerline of State Road 38
(Lafayette Road) to the intersection of the centerline with the north line of
the north half of the northeast quarter of Section 5, Township 19 North, Range
3 East; thence on and along the north line north 90 degrees 00 minutes 00
seconds east 146.69 feet; thence north 00 degrees 49 minutes 56 seconds east
295.35 feet; thence north 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds west 45 feet; thence
south 37 degrees 59 minutes 30 seconds west 279.42 feet; thence northwesterly
on and along the centerline of State Road 38; thence northeasterly 148 feet to
a point, thence north by west 159 feet to the west line of the southeast
quarter of Section 32, Township 20 North, Range 3 East; thence north on and
along the west line to a point 200 feet south of the north line of the
southeast quarter; thence east parallel with the north line 580 feet; thence
north to the south line of the northeast quarter of Section 32; thence east on
and along the south line to a point which is 1,275.7 feet east of the southwest
corner of the northeast quarter; thence north 250 feet; thence west 400 feet;
thence north 711.5 feet more or less, to a fence line; thence west on and along
the fence line to the east line of the northwest quarter of Section 32; thence
north on and along the east line to the south line of Curry and Puzzy Second
Subdivision; thence west on and along the south line of Curry and Puzzy First
Subdivision to the west line of the east half of the northwest quarter
(centerline of Adams Street); thence south on and along the centerline 305.25
feet; thence south to the centerline of First Street; thence west on and along
the centerline of the east line of Section 31, Township 20 North, Range 3 East
(centerline of California Street); thence north on and along the east line of
the north line of Caswell Boxley's addition; thence west on and along the north
line to the northwest corner of Lot 8 in that addition; thence south on and
along the west line of the lot to the north line of Spencer Street; thence west
on and along the north line to the centerline of Sherman Avenue; thence south
on and along the centerline of Sherman Avenue to a point 660 feet north of the
south line of the northeast quarter of Section 31; thence west 265.75 feet;
thence south 154.5 feet; thence east 99 feet; thence south to a point 301.125
feet north of the south line of the northeast quarter; thence west parallel
with the south line to a point 62 feet east of the west line of the northeast
quarter; thence south to the north line of the southeast quarter; thence south
330 feet; thence east parallel with the north line to the west line of the eats
half of the southeast quarter; thence south on and along the west line to the
south line of Eighth Street as established in the plat of White and Morris
Addition; thence east on and along the south line of Eighth Street to the west
line of Hamilton Avenue in said addition; thence south on and along the west
line of Hamilton Avenue to the south line of Section 31 (centerline of State
Road 47 (Tenth Street)); thence east on and along the south line to the place
of beginning.
('85 Code, § 2-1-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS; POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FINANCE; REVENUE
      
35.   ENFORCEMENT OF CODE
      
36.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
37.   TOWN POLICIES
      
38.   DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Legislative intent to exercise general powers
   
30.02   Executive and administrative functions
   
30.03   Special committees
Elections
   
30.15   Eligibility to vote
   
30.16   Districts
   
30.17   Reserved
   
30.18   Election of President; term; vacancies; powers and duties
   
30.19   Procedure for nomination of candidates
Meetings
   
30.30   Continuous sessions
   
30.31   General rules of procedure; priority; suspension of rules
   
30.32   Specific rules of procedure; quorum; voting
   
30.33   Limitation on rescinding actions at special meetings
   
30.34   Public speaking privileges
   
30.35   Contempt
   
30.36   Agendas
   
30.37   Electronic meetings policy
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT TO EXERCISE GENERAL POWERS.
   It is the declared legislative intent of the Town Council, pursuant to the
enactment of this code and the Plan of Reorganization adopted pursuant to IC
36-1.5 et seq. and recorded with the Hamilton County Recorder as Document No.
2024021721 on June 20, 2024 and certified as adopted by referendum as recorded
in Document No. 2024046345 (the “plan”), to invoke and exercise all lawful
powers vested in or incumbent on the Council of a town to enact ordinances and
provide through legislation for the governance of the town and its governmental
jurisdiction, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following powers:
   (A)   All powers vested expressly on towns or civil townships by the
constitution and laws of Indiana.
   (B)   All general or residual powers conferred on the governing body of a
town by IC 36-1-3, 36-1-4, 36-7-2, 36-8-2, 36-9-2 and 36- 10-2 or by any other
law.
   (C)   All general or residual powers conferred on civil townships by IC 36-
6, 36-8, 36-10-7 or any other law applicable to townships and vested in the
Town Council pursuant to IC 36-1.5-4-6 or by any other law.
   (D)   All implied powers incumbent on a municipality or civil township
through the operation of common law, such as are necessary or dispensable to
the purpose for which a municipal corporation or civil township is created.
('85 Code, § 1-1-3) (Am. Ord. 2024-17, passed 12-30-24)
§ 30.02 EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Unless a separate board is hereafter formed and granted by appropriate
powers under the provisions of IC 36-1-3, 8-1.5-3 or other statutes, the Town
Council shall serve and function as:
      (1)   A Board of Public Works, or “works board”;
      (2)   A Board of Public Safety; and,
      (3)   A Utility Service Board.
   (B)   All references to any of the above entities in town ordinances in or
statutes which are applicable to towns shall be construed as references to the
Town Council. Additional executive or administrative powers and duties may be
ascribed to the Council by law or ordinance.
   (C)   This section does not affect the powers and duties of Council members
designated as Executive Commissioners.
('85 Code, § 2-2-10)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Town Council may, by resolution or motion, establish special
committees, either standing or ad hoc, to assist the Council with
administration of the town or the conduct of special business. These committees
may be established to conduct studies or investigations, formulate plans or
policy recommendations and similar matters to the extent not requiring final
action by the Council.
      (1)   A committee may consist of Council members, other officers or
employees of the town government or municipally owned utilities, interested
citizens or a combination of the foregoing, the exact constituency and members
to be specified in the resolution or motion.
      (2)   The resolution or motion shall specify the purpose and duties of
the committee and, in the case of an ad hoc committee, the term for which the
committee shall exist or the date by which its final report must be presented
to the Council.
      (3)   Unless particular ex officio memberships are stipulated in the
resolution or motion, specific appointments shall be made by the Town Council
President, who also shall designate the chairman of the committee, all subject
to approval by the majority of the Council.
   (B)   All these committees shall function as adjuncts to the Council and
their meetings and proceedings shall be governed by IC 5-14-1.5, including IC
5-14-1.5-5(a).
('85 Code, § 2-2-9)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 ELIGIBILITY TO VOTE.
   Persons entitled to vote in all elections for town officials subject to
popular election are registered voters who have resided within the corporate
limits of the town for the length of time, as required by statute, that
entitles them to vote in the precinct in which they reside.
('85 Code, § 2-9-1) (Ord. 1982-7, passed 12-22-82)
§ 30.16 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2025, the Council shall consist of seven members
as provided in the plan and shall include the five members of the Council
holding office at midnight on December 31, 2024 and two members selected from
the former Township Board of Adams Township by the Board.
   (B)   The term of office for the Council members elected at large in 2022
and the former Township Board members assuming Council office on January 1,
2025 shall expire at noon on January 1, 2027. The term of office for the
Council members elected in 2023 representing District 1, District 2 and
District 3 shall expire on January 1, 2028.
   (C)   At the regularly scheduled general election conducted in 2026, voters
throughout the town shall elect one Council member at large and three Council
members from District 1, District 2 and District 4 as depicted in the map
attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 2024-17 and incorporated herein by reference
(the Council map). Council members must reside in the district they are elected
to represent and only voters in that district will elect their Council member.
   (D)   At the regularly scheduled municipal election conducted in 2027,
voters throughout the town shall elect one Council member at large and the
voters in District 3 and 5 as depicted in the Council map shall elect their
respective Council member. Council members must reside in the district they are
elected to represent and only voters in that district will elect their Council
member.
   (E)   Vacancies on the Council occurring prior to the elections described
above shall be filled as provided in the plan.
   (F)   Council members shall serve four year terms and until their successors
are selected and qualified.
('85 Code, § 2-2-12) (Ord. 1982-6, passed 12-8-82; Am. Ord. 1988-3, passed 5-
10-88; Am. Ord. 2012-12-1, passed 12-13-12; Am. Ord. 2022-20, passed 9-20-22;
Am. Ord. 2024-17, passed 12-30-24)
§ 30.17 RESERVED.
§ 30.18 ELECTION OF PRESIDENT; TERM; VACANCIES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each year, the Town Council shall
elect one of its members as President. The President shall serve until the
first regular meeting of the next succeeding year, unless he or she sooner
resigns the Presidency or ceases to be a member of the Council for any reason.
If a vacancy occurs, the Council, at its next regular meeting thereafter, shall
elect another member as President to fill the remainder of the vacating
President's term. The President shall have:
      (1)   All powers and duties ascribed by statute to a town executive or by
ordinance to the Town Council President.
      (2)   The power to sign all ordinances and resolutions passed and adopted
by the Council, provided, the President does not have power of veto and may
only refuse to sign an ordinance or resolution on one of the following grounds:
         (a)   That the document presented for signature is not a true and
accurate copy of the ordinance or resolution actually passed by the Council.
         (b)   That the ordinance or resolution was not lawfully and properly
passed by the Council in accordance with all applicable statutory requirements
and requirements of parliamentary rules governing the Council.
      (3)   All other powers and duties necessary or dispensable to the
presiding officer of a public governing body for the conduct of its official
business.
   (B)   If the President is absent at a meeting or is disqualified from
presiding for any reason, the Board may designate another member to preside
temporarily for purposes of that meeting. The designee shall have the powers of
the President under division (A)(3) above, but not the powers under divisions
(A)(1) and (A)(2).
('85 Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.19 PROCEDURE FOR NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Election Board of the county that contains the greatest percentage
of the town’s population shall conduct the primary election for the town.
   (B)   All statutes governing primary elections for towns apply.
   (C)   The town may not change the method of nominating candidates for town
offices more than one time in any 12-year period.
(Ord. 2006-9-1, passed 9-12-06)
Statutory reference:
   Nomination of candidates, see IC 3-8-5-2
MEETINGS
§ 30.30 CONTINUOUS SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have no definite session or sessions, but shall
be in continuous session for the conduct of executive and legislative business
of the town government.
   (B)   The Council may determine and adopt by motion a fixed schedule of
regular meetings to be held at the times and places as it determines, or shall
otherwise fix the time and place of its next meeting at the termination of each
meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by either the Town Council President or
by a majority of the other members of the Council.
      (1)   Written notice of a special meeting shall be given at least 24
hours in advance to any Council member who is not a party to calling the
special meeting. However, in an emergency, lesser notice may be given and may
be given by telephone or personally instead of in writing.
      (2)   If a member cannot feasibly be given notice (as, for example, if
the member is out of town), the inability to notify the member does not bar the
conduct of the special meeting nor invalidate any actions taken and provided
further that if a member is not given notice of a special meeting for any
reason, but attends anyway, that attendance shall be sufficient in lieu of
notice.
   (D)   If necessary to suit the convenience of the Council or the public, the
Council President may alter the time and/or place established for a meeting
upon giving the same notice required above in the case of calling a special
meeting.
   (E)   All regular or special meetings, other than confidential executive
sessions when authorized by law, shall be open to the public in accordance with
IC 5-14-1.5 but, pursuant to IC 5-14-1.5-5(f), public notice as required under
IC 5-14-1.5-4(a) need not be given for any regular or special meeting unless
the meeting is required to be held by statute, ordinance or regulation.
   (F)   If possible, the Clerk-Treasurer shall post a notice of the meeting in
advance outside of the meeting place and if a written agenda is to be used at
the meeting, a copy of that agenda shall be posted as well.
('85 Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.31 GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE; PRIORITY; SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   (A)   Meetings of the Town Council shall be governed by parliamentary rules
in priority, in order as follows:
      (1)   By all rules of procedure governing a Town Council as prescribed by
statute.
      (2)   By all specific rules as set forth herein to the extent not in
conflict with division (A)(1) above, and
      (3)   By the latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order, to the extent not
in conflict with divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Any rules described by divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above may be
suspended at any time by consent of a majority of the members present. Rules
prescribed by statute may not be suspended, except that the rule prescribed by
IC 36-5-2-9.8, that an ordinance may not be passed on the same day or at the
same meeting where it is first introduced may be suspended with the unanimous
consent of the members present.
('85 Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.32 SPECIFIC RULES OF PROCEDURE; QUORUM; VOTING.
   (A)   A majority of all the constituent memberships of the Town Council must
be present for the conduct of business.
   (B)   Any action, other than the adoption of an ordinance, may be taken upon
the favorable vote of a majority of the members present, unless a larger vote
is required by statute or ordinance. An ordinance may only be adopted upon
majority vote of all of the constituent members of the Council, whether present
or not.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, an abstention is not counted as a
favorable vote.
   (D)   If a tie occurs, final action shall be deferred to the next meeting;
provided, if the entire Council consists of an even number of members and a tie
occurs, the Clerk-Treasurer may cast a deciding vote in accordance with IC 36-
5-2-8(b).
('85 Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.33 LIMITATION ON RESCINDING ACTIONS AT SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   No vote or action of the Town Council may be rescinded at a special meeting
unless as many members of the Council are present as were present at the
meeting where the vote or action originally was taken.
('85 Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.34 PUBLIC SPEAKING PRIVILEGES.
   All persons shall have a right to address the Town Council at any regular or
special meeting. However, as it deems necessary for the orderly conduct of
public business, the Council may allocate and limit time among persons wishing
to speak.
   (A)   Members of the public wishing to exercise this privilege must obtain
recognition from the presiding officer before addressing the Council and may
not interrupt other speakers.
   (B)   The subject of the speaking must be germane to any topic of business
currently on the floor.
   (C)   The use of personal abusiveness, insults, offensive language, shouting
or other uncivilized speaking behavior will be considered out of order and
cause to deny further speaking privilege to the guilty party.
('85 Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.35 CONTEMPT.
   (A)   The presiding officer at any meeting of the Town Council is granted
all powers reasonably necessary to maintain order and decorum at a meeting,
including the power to summarily evict any person, other than a member of the
Council, who persistently and after fair warning acts in any disruptive and
disturbing way contrary to the rules of the Council or ordinary standards of
orderly behavior.
   (B)   No requirement of public access shall be construed to impair the
proper use of this power in accordance with this section and the presiding
officer may invoke the aid of the Town Marshal or other law officer to enforce
the order.
   (C)   Any person who:
      (1)   Behaves in a disruptive or disturbing manner; or
      (2)   Refuses to obey the proper and lawful rules of procedure as adopted
by the Council; or
      (3)   Refuses to appear or produce documents at an investigatory hearing
when so ordered pursuant to IC 36-1-4-12
may be held guilty of contempt by the Council pursuant to IC 36-1-4-13.
   (D)   The provisions of this section may be applied to a member of the
Council, but only by unanimous consent of the other members present and for
proper and extreme cause, and not for frivolous, vexatious or political
purposes nor with intent to deprive the member's constituents of just
representation with respect to any matter.
('85 Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.36 AGENDAS.
   (A)   A formal written agenda may be prepared and used by the Town Council
at any of its meetings.
   (B)   If an agenda is employed, it shall be prepared in advance by the
Clerk-Treasurer and copies shall be provided in advance to each Council member
and one copy posted outside the meeting place. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
include the following items on the agenda:
      (1)   Routine matters in accordance with an established or customary
order of business (e.g., roll call, reading of minutes, and so on.
      (2)   Items of old business expressly postponed to the ensuing meeting,
or unfinished business included in the agenda or first introduced at an
immediately prior meeting.
      (3)   Any items of new business which are:
         (a)   Required by law or ordinance to be considered at the ensuing
meeting; or
         (b)   In the case of a special meeting, those items of business which
are the purpose for which the special meeting was called; or
         (c)   Are directed to be included by the Town Council President or by
a petition signed by a majority of the members of the Council.
   (C)   The order of the agenda may be amended by a motion at the meeting.
Additional items of new business not included on the agenda may be introduced
and considered as required by circumstances and permitted by the time
available, but only if the Council adopts a special motion consenting to and
accepting the introduction of the further business. This section is intended to
be purely permissive and does not oblige the Council to prepare and use a
written agenda at any of its meetings.
('85 Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
§ 30.37 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   Title; provisions.
      (1)   The provisions of the Act, including definitions, apply to this
section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Sheridan Town Council and applies to the Council and any committee
appointed directly by the Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   Participation.
      (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) of this section, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   Attendance.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting
at which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not
more than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of
communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   Minutes. The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member
participates by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   Electronic communication prohibited. No member of the Council may
participate by means of electronic communication in a meeting at which the
Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   Emergency declared.
      (1)   If an emergency is declared by the Governor under IC 10-14-3-12 or
the Town Council President under IC 10-14-3-29, members are not required to be
physically present for a meeting until the emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2022-12, passed 6-7-22)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
30.35(C), upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not less than $50 nor
more than $100.
('85 Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Powers and duties of town officials
   
31.02   Official agency
   
31.03   Applicability
   
31.04   Status and service of appointed officers and employees; exception
   
31.05   Assignment of duties; disputed duties
   
31.06   Books and records
   
31.07   Mandatory retirement; exceptions
   
31.08   Termination; suspension; appeal
   
31.09   Membership in professional organizations; continuing education
   
31.10   Fair Labor Standards Act
   
31.11   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy
   
31.12   Anti-nepotism policy
   
31.13   Conflicts of interest policy
Benefits; Compensation
   
31.20   Policy and Procedure Manual adopted by reference
   
31.21   Fixing of salaries and wages; payment
   
31.22   Travel and conference pay
   
31.23   Paid vacation allowance
   
31.24   Paid sick leave
   
31.25   Other authorized leave
   
31.26   Deferred compensation plan adopted
   
31.27   Social security
Town Attorney
   
31.40   Legal counsel; appointment; duties; compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officers, officials, boards, commissions or other official
entities of the town government shall be construed to have:
      (1)   All powers or duties prescribed for or conferred on any particular
officer, official, board, commission or other official entity by statute.
      (2)   All powers or duties expressly prescribed by or conferred thereon
by a provision of this code.
      (3)   All powers or duties implied by the nature of and necessary or
dispensable for the proper and efficient fulfillment of their governmental or
corporate function or duties of office, including, but not necessarily limited
to, the power to prescribe administrative rules or procedures for the
governance of their respective offices, departments, agencies or functions to
the extent not inconsistent with nor preempted by a provision of this code or a
statute, or by an applicable and mandatory state or federal administrative
regulation.
   (B)   To the extent provided by this section, the fact that a particular
power or duty is not expressly set forth in this code and conferred on an
officer, official, board, commission or other official entity does not, of
itself, imply that the power or duty does not exist or has been considerately
denied or withheld.
('85 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 31.02 OFFICIAL AGENCY.
   (A)   Any purely ministerial power or function vested in any officer, board,
commission or other entity by a provision of this code of ordinances may be
delegated to and exercised or performed by a deputy or other authorized agent
or representative of the authority in whom the ministerial power or function is
vested, except that no person shall be permitted to receive or handle public
funds or other monies in the custody of the town unless they are properly
bonded or expressly so authorized by law.
   (B)   The delegation of a ministerial power or function does not relieve the
principal authority in whom it is vested of responsibility for proper and
timely performance.
   (C)   Any power or function vested in an officer, board, commission or other
entity which involves the exercise of official discretion shall be performed or
exercised only by or under the immediate supervision of the authority in whom
it was vested and it may not be delegated unless a provision of this code or
law expressly so permits.
('85 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 31.03 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the following sections or provisions apply
to all officers and employees of the town or municipally owned utilities.
However, in instances where the Town Council has approved and adopted any
further, more specific or more detailed policies or employment agreements
governing specific offices and departments, classes of employees (such as
police officers) or individual employees, the adopted policies or agreements
shall apply and supplement, or, in the event of a conflict, shall supersede,
the following provisions.
('85 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.04 STATUS AND SERVICE OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance, every appointed
officer or employee shall hold office or a position at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
   (B)   This section does not apply to Deputy Clerk-Treasurers or employees of
the Clerk-Treasurer's office, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer in accordance with IC 36-5-6-7.
('85 Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.05 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES; DISPUTED DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Council may assign to any officer or employee any duty which
is not, by law or ordinance, specifically assigned to some other officer or
employee. Unless the law or ordinance expressly or implicitly prohibits such
action, when a law or ordinance does not specifically ascribe a duty to a
particular officer or employee, and the officer or employee is unable to
perform the duty for any reason, the Town Council may also temporarily assign
the duty to another officer or employee.
   (B)   The powers of the Town Council under this section are supplementary
and do not affect the powers of executive commissioners, other officers,
department heads and supervisors to assign duties to employees within the
proper scope of their usual jurisdiction. The Town Council also shall have the
power to determine disputes or questions relating to powers and duties of
officers and employees unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
('85 Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.06 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   All official books and records kept by any officer or employee shall
be open to inspection by the Town Council or Clerk-Treasurer at any reasonable
time. This provision may not be construed as permitting a Council member or the
Clerk-Treasurer to disclose to unauthorized persons any information of record
which is declared confidential by law or ordinance. When an officer or employee
leaves office, all official books and records kept by that officer or employee
shall be delivered to the successor, or, if no successor has yet been appointed
or taken office, to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The following records are exempted from the disclosure requirements of
IC 5-14-3-3, as authorized by IC 5-14-3-4(b):
      (1)   Investigatory records of the Police Department and the Fire
Department, except those records required to be available for inspection and
copying by IC 5-14-3-5.
      (2)   The work product of any attorney representing the town.
      (3)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used in
administering a licensing examination, examination for employment, before the
examination is given and if the same examination is to be given again.
      (4)   Scores of tests, if the person taking the test is identified by
name and has not consented to the release of his or her scores.
      (5)   Records relating to negotiations between the town, the
Redevelopment Commission, the Economic Development Commission, with an
industrial, a research or a commercial prospect, if the records are created
while negotiations are in progress.
      (6)   Notwithstanding subsection (B)(5) above, the terms of the final
offer of public financial resources communicated by the Town Council, the
Redevelopment Commission, or the Economic Development Commission to an
industrial, a research, or a commercial prospect shall be available for
inspection and copying under IC 5-14-3-3 after negotiations with that prospect
have been terminated.
      (7)   Records that are advisory or deliberative material, including
material developed by a private contractor under contract with the town, the
Redevelopment Commission, or the Economic Development Commission that are
expressions of opinion or are of a speculative nature, and that are
communicated for the purpose of decision making.
      (8)   Diaries, journals, or other personal notes serving as the
functional equivalent of a diary or journal.
      (9)   Personnel files of public employees and files of applicants for
public employment except:
         (a)   The name, compensation, job title, business address, business
telephone number, job description, if any, education and training background,
previous work experience, or dates of first and last employment of present or
former officers or employees of the agents of the town.
         (b)   Information relating to the status of any formal charges against
the employee, and
         (c)   Information concerning disciplinary actions in which final
action has been taken and that resulted in the employee being disciplined or
discharged. However, all personnel file information shall be made available to
the affected employee or his representative. However, request for personnel
information on all employees, or for groups of employees, without the request
being particularized by employee name, shall not be disclosed and shall be
subject to the exemption from disclosure of this section.
      (10)   Administrative or technical information that would jeopardize a
recordkeeping or security system.
      (11)   Computer programs, computer codes, computer filing systems, and
other software that are owned by the town or entrusted to the town or portions
of electronic maps entrusted to the town by a utility.
      (12)   Records specifically prepared for discussion or developed during
discussion at an executive session under IC 5-14-1.5-6.1. However, this
subdivision does not apply to that information required to be available for
inspection and copying under subsection (B)(9) above.
      (13)   The identity of a donor of a gift made to the town or its Park
Department or any other agency whose members are appointed in whole or in part
by the town if:
         (a)   The donor requests non-disclosure of his or her identity as a
condition of making the gift, or
         (b)   After the gift is made, the donor or member of the donor's
family request non-disclosure.
('85 Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 98-10-01, passed
10-27-98)
§ 31.07 MANDATORY RETIREMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every officer, other than an elected officer, or employee shall retire no
later than upon reaching the age of 70. However, if state or federal law should
hereafter limit the minimum mandatory retirement age which may be prescribed by
a municipal employer to an age greater than 70, that greater minimum mandatory
requirement age shall apply. By special arrangement with the Town Council, an
officer or employee may be retained beyond the mandatory retirement age
prescribed by this section.
('85 Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 1985-C6, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.08 TERMINATION; SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   Upon termination for cause, suspension in excess of ten days, or reduction
in grade, of any town employee by the Commissioner holding responsibility over
the employee's department, the employee shall have the right to appeal to the
full Town Council. The appeal shall be an evidentiary hearing conducted
according to the procedures set out in IC 36-8-3-4 in the case of firefighters
and police officers. Procedures in evidentiary hearings for non-fire and non-
police personnel shall conform to those mandated for police and fire personnel
as nearly as possible.
('85 Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 1981-2, passed 3-11-81)
Cross-reference:
   Executive Commissioners established for Fire Department and Marshal
Department; powers of Committee, see §§
32.15 –
32.17
§ 31.09 MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS; CONTINUING EDUCATION.
   Members of the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer, the town employees and the
town as an entity may, with the consent of the Town Council, become members of
organizations devoted to dissemination of education material relating to town
functions, representation of towns and cities before state and federal bodies,
coordinating councils concerned with town functions such as zoning, industrial
development, regional planning, traffic control and so on.
   (A)   Town Council members, the Clerk-Treasurer and town employees may, with
prior consent of the Council, attend meetings, seminars, councils and so on
sponsored by those organizations or relating to town functions.
   (B)   Where membership in those organizations and attendance at those
meetings are approved by the Council, the Council may authorize appropriations
for payment of any membership dues in the organizations and may authorize
reimbursement for travel expenses and costs of participation in any meeting so
approved by the Council.
('85 Code, § 2-9-2) (Ord. 1982-1, passed 1-27-82)
§ 31.10 FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT.
   (A)   Non-emergency employees of the Police Department and the Fire
Department shall be scheduled to work 40 hours per week.
   (B)   The salary ordinance for such employees shall be divided by 2,080 to
determine that employee's hourly rate of pay.
   (C)   Hours worked for such employees shall be scheduled during the 178
hours of each work week for a period each work week of such employee shall
start at 7:00 a.m. on each Monday morning.
   (D)   Emergency employees of the Fire Department and the Police Department
shall be scheduled based on a 28-day work period.
   (E)   The 28-day work period for such employees of the Police Department
shall start at 7:00 a.m. on October 27, 2000, at 7:00 a.m. and each 28 days
thereafter. The 28-day work period for such employees of the Fire Department
shall start at 7:00 a.m. on April 15, 2000, at 7:00 a.m. and each 28 days
thereafter.
   (F)   Under current federal law, an emergency employee of the Fire
Department may be scheduled for up to 212 hours per 28-day period, and an
emergency employee of the Police Department may be scheduled for up to 171
hours per 28-day period. The town adopts those periods as the work periods for
the respective department employees.
   (G)   Under current federal law, an employee of the Fire Department or an
employee of the Police Department who works in excess of the number of hours
stated in division (F) of this section in any 28-day period, as defined in
division (E) of this section, and any other employee of the town not exempt or
excluded from the Fair Labor Standards Act, who works more than 40 hours per
work week, shall be compensated by either payment at one and one-half times
that employee's hourly rate of pay, or by allowing the employee to take future
time off of work with pay as compensatory time.
   (H)   An employee may accumulate no more than 240 hours of compensatory time
off for 160 hours of overtime worked, except a public safety employee, an
emergency response employee, or an employee of another department engaged in a
seasonal activity during periods of significantly increased demand, such as
those employees engaged in snow removal during a winter with several snow
storms, or a winter with a significantly greater volume of snow or drifting
snow, may accumulate more than 240 hours of compensatory time off for 160 hours
of overtime worked, with the written approval of the appropriate Town Council
member. Such written approval shall be made a part of the public record at the
next Town Council meeting.
   (I)   Any employee of the town that accumulates more than 240 hours of
compensatory time for working 160 hours of overtime, except as stated in
division (G) of this section, shall be paid for the hours in excess of 160
hours worked.
   (J)   A supervisor may not require an employee to use compensatory time, but
a supervisor may schedule an employee so no additional compensatory time or
overtime is worked.
   (K)   If an employee exercises his or her rights under the federal Family
and Medical Leave Act, the hours not worked shall be paid, so long as the
employee has vacation days, personal days, or compensatory hours available.
After all sick days (if appropriate for the particular leave), vacation days,
personal days and compensatory hours have been used, time off under the federal
Family and Medical Leave Act shall be unpaid.
(Ord. 2000-2-1, passed 3-28-00)
§ 31.11 CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy
regarding the contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to
provide local government services to its residents and to comply with the new
law effective July 1,2012 known as IC 36-1-21.
   (B)   On July l, 2012, the town shall have a contracting with a unit policy
that complies with the minimum requirements of IC 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town’s contracting with a unit policy is hereby established
effective July 1,2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of IC 36-
1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments hereto which become
law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out
herein. A copy of IC 36-1-21 is attached to the Resolution passed June 14, 2012
(the “Resolution”).
   (D)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the town’s
contracting with a unit by a relative policy and demonstrating compliance with
the policy.
   (E)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with a unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with a unit by a
relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (F)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of the Resolution in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of the Resolution to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of the Resolution; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by the Resolution to its employees and elected and
appointed officials. Upon any of taking these actions these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (G)   Two copies of IC 36-1-21, and as supplemented or amended, are on file
in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for public inspection as
maybe required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Res. passed 6-14-12)
Cross-reference:
   Contracting requirements for relatives of elected officials, see §
34.40
§ 31.12 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town in order to
continue to be able to provide local government services to its residents and
to comply with the new law effective July l, 2012 known as IC 36-1-20.2.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a policy that complies with the
minimum requirements of IC 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “anti-nepotism policy”) which
shall become a part of the town’s Policy and Procedure Manual and
implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town’s anti-nepotism policy is hereby established effective July
1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of IC 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of IC 36-1-20.2, the town’s anti-nepotism policy in effect on
July l, 2012 is attached to the Resolution passed May 24, 2012 (the
“Resolution”).
   (D)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (E)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by the Resolution and demonstrating compliance with the anti-nepotism
policy.
   (F)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the anti-nepotism policy is a violation and
may result in the discipline, including termination of an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, with the compliance and with the mandated
certifications of the anti-nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by
law.
   (G)   The anti-nepotism policy created by the Resolution is hereby directed
to be implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of the Resolution in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of the Resolution to its employees and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of the Resolution; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by the Resolution to its employees and elected and
appointed officials. Upon any of taking these actions, the anti-nepotism policy
is deemed implemented by the town.
      (5)   Two copies of IC 36-1-20.2 and as supplemented or amended, are on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for public inspection as
maybe required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Res. passed 5-24-12)
§ 31.13 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the conflicts of interest policy is to protect
the interest of the town (“town”) when it is contemplating entering into a
transaction or arrangement that might benefit the private interest of an
officer or director of the town or might result in a possible excess benefit
transaction. This policy is intended to supplement but not replace any
applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of interest applicable to
nonprofit and charitable organizations.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FINANCIAL INTEREST.
         (a)   A person has a FINANCIAL INTEREST if the person has, directly or
indirectly, through business, investment, or family:
            1.   An ownership or investment interest in any entity with which
the town has a transaction or arrangement, or
            2.   A compensation arrangement with the town or with any entity or
individual with which the town has a transaction or arrangement, or
            3.   A potential ownership or investment interest in, or
compensation arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the town is
negotiating a transaction or arrangement.
         (b)   The term “compensation” includes direct and indirect
remuneration as well as gifts or favors that are not insubstantial.
         (c)   A FINANCIAL INTEREST is not necessary a conflict of interest.
Under division (C)(2) below, a person who has a FINANCIAL INTEREST may have a
conflict of interest only if the appropriate governing board or committee
decides that a conflict of interest exists.
      INTERESTED PERSON. Any director, principal or member of a committee with
governing board delegated powers, including a member of the Town Council (“Town
Council”), who has a direct or indirect financial interest (as defined above),
in an INTERESTED PERSON.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Duty to disclose. In connection with any actual or possible
conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose the existence of the
financial interest and be given the opportunity to disclose all material facts
to the directors and members of committees with governing board delegated
powers, including the Town Council, considering the proposed transaction or
arrangement.
      (2)   Determining whether a conflict of interest exists. After disclosure
of the financial interest and all material facts, and after any discussion with
the interested person, he or she shall leave the governing board or committee
meeting while the determination of a conflict of interest is discussed and
voted upon. The remaining board or committee members shall decide if a conflict
of interest exists.
      (3)   Procedures for addressing the conflict of interest.
         (a)   An interested person may make a presentation at the governing
board or committee meeting, but after the presentation, he or she shall leave
the meeting during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or
arrangement involving the possible conflict of interest.
         (b)   The chairperson of the governing board or committee shall, if
appropriate, appoint a disinterested person or committee to investigate the
alternatives to the proposed transaction or agreement.
         (c)   After exercising due diligence, the governing board or committee
shall determine whether the town can obtain with reasonable efforts a more
advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity that would not
give rise to a conflict of interest.
         (d)   If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not
reasonably possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest,
the governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the
disinterested directors whether the transaction or arrangement is in the town’s
best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair and reasonable. In
conformity with the above determination it shall make its decision as to
whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.
      (4)   Violations of the conflict of interest policy.
         (a)   If the governing board or committee has reasonable cause to
believe a member has failed to disclose an actual or possible conflict of
interest, it shall inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford
the member an opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.
         (b)   If, after hearing the member’s response and after making further
investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or
committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or possible
conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and corrective
action.
   (D)   Records of proceedings. The minutes of the governing board and all
committees with board delegated powers shall contain:
      (1)   The names of the persons who disclosed or otherwise were found to
have a financial interest in connection with an actual or possible conflict of
interest, the nature of the financial interest, any action taken to determine
whether a conflict of interest was present, and the governing board’s or
committee’s decision as to whether a conflict of interest in fact existed.
      (2)   The names of the persons who were present for discussions and votes
relating to the transaction or arrangement, the content of the discussion,
including any alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement, and a
record of any votes taken in connection with the proceedings.
   (E)   Compensation.
      (1)   A voting member of the governing board who receives compensation,
directly or indirectly, from the town for services is precluded from voting on
matters pertaining to that member’s compensation.
      (2)   A voting member of any committee whose jurisdiction includes
compensation matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly,
from the town for services is precluded from voting on matters pertaining to
that member’s compensation.
      (3)   No voting member of the governing board or any committee whose
jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation,
directly or indirectly from the town, either individually or collectively, is
prohibited from providing information to any committee regarding compensation.
   (F)   Annual statements. Each director, principal officer and member of a
committee with governing board delegated powers shall annually sign a statement
which affirms such person:
      (1)   Has received a copy of the conflicts of interest policy,
      (2)   Has read and understands the conflicts of interest policy, and
      (3)   Has agreed to comply with the conflicts of interest policy.
   (G)   Periodic reviews. Periodic reviews shall be conducted and shall, at a
minimum, include the following subjects:
      (1)   Whether compensation arrangements and benefits are reasonable,
based on competent survey information, and the result of arm’s length
bargaining, and
      (2)   Whether partnerships, joint ventures, and arrangements with
management organizations conform to the town’s written policies, are properly
recorded, and reflect reasonable investment or payments for goods and services.
   (H)   Use of outside experts. When conducting the periodic reviews as
provided for in division (G) above, the town may, but need not, use outside
advisors. If outside experts are used, their use shall not relieve the
governing board of its responsibility for ensuring periodic reviews are
conducted.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 4-24-17)
BENEFITS; COMPENSATION
§ 31.20 POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The Town of Sheridan Policy and Procedure Manual, dated December 10, 2009,
and attached forms, procedures and job descriptions is adopted by reference and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
(Motion, passed 12-9-09)
Editor’s note:
   It is not the intent of this Policy and Procedure Manual to supercede or
overrule any state or federal rules or regulations governing the operation of
the Police and Fire Departments.
§ 31.21 FIXING OF SALARIES AND WAGES; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall annually adopt an ordinance fixing the annual
salary or hourly wage rate too be paid to each civil town officer, class of
employee or employee position for the ensuing fiscal year.
      (1)   When possible, this ordinance shall be adopted no later than August
1, so firm figures may be incorporated into the budget for the ensuing year
prior to its publication and adoption, but in all events shall be adopted on or
before December 31.
      (2)   The salary ordinance may be amended as necessary to provide fair
and equitable compensation to all officers and employees, provided the salary
of an elected officer may not be changed during the year for which it is fixed.
   (B)   Salaries and wages due to officers and employees shall be paid as
follows:
      (1)   Town Council members. The annual salary fixed for Town Council
members shall be paid in equal quarterly installments due on the first day of
the month following the end of each quarter.
      (2)   Town Attorney. The annual retainer fixed for the Town Attorney
shall be paid in equal quarterly installments due the first day of the month
following the end of each quarter. This division applies only to the annual
retainer; other legal fees and charges for services not covered under the
retainer shall be paid as agreed between the Town Attorney and Town Council.
      (3)   Other officers and employees. All other civil town officers and
employees shall be paid semi-monthly, on the first and fifteenth of each month,
following the work period covered by the payment. Hourly wage employees shall
be paid an amount reflecting actual earnings during the work period; salaried
officers and employees shall be paid semi-monthly installments of 1/24th of the
annual salary.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the payroll which, when duly allowed
by the Town Council, shall authorize the issuance of checks for the salaries or
wages indicated to be due (less applicable deductions). The payroll, as
prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer, and/or allowed by the Town Council shall
reflect any unpaid leave taken by any officer or employee during the respective
work period or other applicable dockages.
   (D)   This section applies only to civil town officers and employees an not
to officers and employees of municipally owned utilities, whose compensation
shall be determined and paid in accordance with policies adopted by their
respective utility service board.
(‘85 Code, § 2-8-1) (Ord. 1985-C11, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.22 TRAVEL AND CONFERENCE PAY.
   (A)   Request to travel.
      (1)   The request to travel form shall be completed by all persons
traveling at the expense of the town.
      (2)   Incidental or overnight travel.
         (a)   A request to travel form shall be completed by the employee for
all travel. If overnight accommodations are required, the arrangements will be
made through the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
         (b)   The department head prior to travel must approve a request for
travel form. A copy will be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer. Permission for
overnight travel must be authorized by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Travel advances and payment.
      (1)   Travel advances and/or payment of registration, travel or lodging
in advance may be requested at the traveling employee's discretion. Traveling
advances should be limited to the greatest extent possible by paying as many
fixed fees as possible in advance.
      (2)   Advance payment requests shall be noted on the request to travel
form. Once the travel has been approved, an appropriate completed payment
voucher should be submitted. A note should be attached to the payment voucher
stating the date the advance is needed. The payment will then be processed in
the accounts payable cycle immediately before the date needed.
      (3)   All costs of travel shall be estimated on the request to travel
form, regardless of the form of payment. This includes: registration,
transportation, lodging and meals, including those paid in advance.
      (4)   Use of advance arrangements including early registration discounts
should be accomplished whenever possible.
   (C)   Arrangements for travel. All transportation arrangements that involve
air, rail or rental autos shall be made through the Clerk-Treasurer's office,
unless arrangements are made on an emergency basis. Lodging reservations may be
arranged through the Clerk-Treasurer's office at the discretion of the
employee. Employees should request whether governmental discounts are available
for lodging and other services. Occasionally, reduced rate travel arrangements
are offered in conjunction with a conference. Employees should use the
conference arrangements if the price is lower than that offered by any other
method.
   (D)   Transportation.
      (1)   Air travel. The town will reimburse the actual cost of the ticket
for any scheduled air carrier. Payment or reimbursement for air travel shall be
at the standard coach class rate as a maximum. Air reservation shall be made as
early as feasible to obtain the greatest discount.
      (2)   Automobile rental. Automobile rental costs shall be reimbursed at
the standard compact car rate when the automobile is used for official town
business and approved in advance by the Clerk-Treasurer. Fuel for rental
automobiles shall also be an expense eligible for reimbursement. Employees
shall not select additional insurance coverage offered by automobile rental
agencies since town insurance will cover the risks in question.
      (3)   Reimbursement for private vehicles. Private vehicles may be used
for personal or group transportation on extended trips. Reimbursement shall be
at the state approved rate. Mileage shall not exceed the cost of a refundable
round trip air transportation (standard coach) for a reservation made at least
seven days in advance of the trip. Proof of automobile insurance at the amounts
specified by the town must be on file with the town.
      (4)   Taxi and other public transportation. Taxi, airport limousine, bus
and mass transit fares shall be reimbursed when used for attendance at meetings
or to accomplish official town business. Taxi fares for travel to dinner (or
other purposes) will not be allowed, unless food is not available within
walking distance of the hotel at which the employee is staying, or unless it is
approved in advance by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Meals.
      (1)   Any employee which is on official town business and the business
portion of the trip is longer that an eight hour period may be reimbursed for
the meals involved in the travel period.
      (2)   Permission for meal reimbursement shall be received from the
Department Supervisor or the Clerk-Treasurer prior to the business function.
      (3)   Guidelines for reimbursement of meals including tips (not to exceed
20% of the bill) per person for business meetings are as follows:
         Breakfast   $10.00
         Lunch      $15.00
         Dinner      $25.00
      (4)   These guidelines may be exceeded if the charges are reasonable
under the circumstances.
      (5)   Reimbursement for meals shall only be approved with the
presentation of a valid receipt or other documentation.
      (6)   Meals that are purchased as part of a conference program or are
otherwise provided for an employee shall be documented. Employees may not
request reimbursement for such meals.
   (F)   Telephone calls.
      (1)   Telephone calls are eligible for reimbursement when used to
accomplish official business. If an employee uses a personal calling card when
telephoning, the actual phone bill must be submitted when claiming
reimbursement.
      (2)   If you are staying overnight, one personal phone call will be
reimbursed to let your family know you arrived.
   (G)   Non-reimbursable items.
      (1)   Certain items are not reimbursable with the use of town funds.
These items include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Fees for entertainment;
         (b)   Expenses associated with golf or other sporting or fitness
activities;
         (c)   Fees for in-room motion pictures;
         (d)   Fees for concierge amenities;
         (e)   Expenses for snacks and/or alcoholic beverages;
         (f)   Expenses for laundry, barbering, valet service, personal phone
calls, traffic violations or private auto repair;
         (g)   Expenses incurred by family members or guests who accompany a
town official or employee;
         (h)   Expenses incurred as part of an election campaign;
      (2)   An employee may stay with a relative or friend while attending an
out of town meeting or conference; however, the town will not reimburse for any
payment to the friend or relative for lodging, meals or transportation.
   (H)   Reconciliation and reimbursement.
      (1)   Travel and meetings expense form. Within ten business days after
the town official or employee returns from trip or event, a travel and meetings
expense form must be filed with the Clerk Treasurer's office. If billings for
expenses incurred have not been received in then days, the form with all
expenses for which bills have been received to date shall be filed, noting that
not all expenses are included, and a supplemental report shall be filed
immediately upon receipt of bills beyond the ten day period. Original receipts
for lodging and transportation (airline ticket), shall be attached as well as
necessary receipts to support additional expenditures to be reimbursed for
which an advanced payment was received.
      (2)   Employees owed money. If the employee is due money, a completed
claim form should be attached to the travel and meeting expense form.
      (3)   Employee owes money. If the employee owes money, the employee
should attach the amount due to the travel and meeting expense form.
      (4)   Clerk-Treasurer's office. If the Clerk-Treasurer's office has any
questions about the approved travel and meeting expense form or any other
documentation, they shall contact the employee immediately by telephone or
return the form with a note of explanation so that the employee can make the
appropriate corrections of provide the additional information.
      (5)   Final approval. After the form has been reviewed by the Clerk-
Treasurer's office it shall be forwarded to the Department Supervisor for final
approval. The Department Supervisor will return the form to the Clerk-
Treasurer's office for payment.
   (I)   Fraud. Any employee who submits a request for permission to travel, or
submits travel and meeting expense forms or supporting documentation for the
purpose of defrauding the town, shall be subject to disciplinary action
including written reprimand, suspension or dismissal.
(Res. 2005-3-2, passed 3-8-05)
§ 31.23 PAID VACATION ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   This section applies to all full-time municipal officers and
employees. It does not apply to members of the Town Council, the Town Attorney
or part-time, temporary or casual employees. Officers and employees to whom
this section applies shall be entitled to an annual paid vacation allowance as
follows:
      (1)   Paid firefighters employed by the town shall receive an annual paid
vacation allotment depending on the number of years of continuous service with
the town, as follows:
 
Amount of Service      Vacation
At least But less than
1 year   2 years       5 days
2 years  10 years      7 days
10 years -             10 days
 
      (2)   Other officers and employees. Other officers and employees shall
receive an annual paid vacation allotment depending on the number of years of
continuous service with the town as follows:
 
Amount of Service      Vacation
At least But less than
1 year   2 years       1 week
2 years  10 years      2 weeks
10 years -             3 weeks
20 years -             4 weeks
 
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a year shall be reckoned from the
anniversary date of the person’s employment with the town.
   (C)   Vacation may not be carried over from year to year, except in
extraordinary circumstances and with the consent of the Town Council, and in no
event is any person entitled to monetary compensation in lieu of unused
vacation time.
   (D)   The paid vacation allowance is in addition to any regular paid
holidays declared by the Town Council.
   (E)   In the event an officer or employee is required to work during a
regular, declared holiday and is not otherwise provided additional
compensation, an equivalent amount of time shall be added to that person’s paid
vacation allowance under this section.
   (F)   Vacation time must be scheduled and approved by the employee’s
department head or other chief supervisor, or, in the case of an officer or
department head not otherwise having a supervisor, by the Town Council
President, with notification given to the Clerk-Treasurer for payroll
accounting purposes.
(‘85 Code, § 2-8-3) (Ord. 1985-C11, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2008-11-2, passed
12-29-08)
Editor’s note:
   For purposes of the vacation allowance, one week equals seven days for
members of the Police Department, while one week equals five days for all other
town employees.
Cross-references:
   Fire Department; compensation and benefits of volunteers and paid
complement, see §
32.02.
§ 31.24 PAID SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All officers and employees to whom §
31.22 applies, shall, regardless of length of service, be entitled to five sick
days per year, as reckoned from the anniversary date of the person’s
employment.
   (B)   Unused sick days may accrue from year to year to ten days, may not be
used as additional vacation days and do not entitle a person to monetary
compensation in lieu of unused sick days.
   (C)   An employee must notify his or her department head or chief supervisor
as soon as possible when a sick day is necessary or, in the case of an officer
or department head not otherwise having a supervisor, the Town Council
President shall be notified, with notice also to the Clerk-Treasurer for
payroll and accounting purposes.
   (D)   In the case of extended or chronic illness, the Town Council may, in
its full discretion, grant an officer or employee additional paid sick leave
beyond the five-day allotment and any accrued sick days to a maximum of 15 sick
days provided by this section.
(‘85 Code, § 2-8-4) (Ord. 1985-C11, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.25 OTHER AUTHORIZED LEAVE.
   (A)   All officers and employees to whom §
31.23 applies shall be permitted five personal days per year.
   (B)   All officers and employees to whom §
31.23 applies shall be permitted reasonable amounts of time for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Maternity.
      (2)   Illness in the immediate family, when the officer’s or employee’s
presence is necessary to care for the ill family member.
      (3)   Death in the immediate family.
      (4)   Required military service.
      (5)   Jury duty.
      (6)   Testifying in court, when required by subpoena (when an officer or
employee is required to testify or appear in court in connection with his or
her official town duties, the appearance will not be considered as leave time).
      (7)   Religious observances not incorporated under declared town
holidays.
      (8)   Any other purposes approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   Any officer or employee may opt to use any paid vacation days under §
31.23 for any of the purposes described in division (A) above, and also may opt
to use any paid sick days accruing or granted under §
31.24 for the purposes described by divisions (A)(1) through (3) of this
section. Otherwise, leave permitted and approved under this section shall be
without pay unless otherwise expressly provided by the Town Council.
   (D)   Requests for leave under this section must be approved by the
employee’s department head or chief supervisor and, in case of a department
which is under the direction of an executive commissioner, also by the
commissioner. In the case of an officer or department head not otherwise having
a supervisor, the request must be approved by the Town Council President.
   (E)   Denial or restriction of requests for leave under this section may be
appealed to the full Town Council. The Clerk-Treasurer must be notified of
leave granted for payroll accounting purposes.
(‘85 Code, § 2-8-5) (Ord. 1985-C11, passed 9-16-85)
§ 31.26 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   To satisfy the requirements of section 457 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, the Town Council has adopted the “Sheridan Employees
Retirement Plan, A Deferred Compensation Plan.” Copies of the plan shall be
available to all employees of the town.
   (B)   The plan will be administered by a committee of one or more persons
appointed by the employer. The Committee will have the power to adopt rules for
the administration of the plan and to interpret, change or revoke any such
rules.
(Res. passed 12-8-92)
§ 31.27 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby elects, by and under provisions of Chapter
313, Acts of 1951, coverage under the Old Age and Survivors’ Insurance. The
following positions are hereby designated as those which are to be covered: all
positions.
   (B)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of Title II, § 218 of
the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereof, the agreement entered
into between the state agency with the approval of the Governor and the Social
Security Administrator is made a part of this section and shall become a part
of the agreement of modification of the agreement between the state and the
Social Security Administrator. Active coverage shall begin as of January 1,
1951.
(‘85 Code, § 2-8-7) (Ord. passed 1-1-52)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.40 LEGAL COUNSEL; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Town Council President, with the approval of the Town Council,
shall appoint a general legal counsel for the Council and the town government,
to be known as the Town Attorney.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall:
      (1)   Provide legal advice to the Town Council and to other officers and
employees of the town or municipal utilities as required in connection with the
performance of their official duties for the town;
      (2)   Attend meetings of the Town Council, as requested by the Town
Council President;
      (3)   Prepare or review, if requested by the Council, all proposed
legislation, contracts or similar documents before final action by the Council
(exclusive of services in connection with the construction of buildings or
other public improvements or the issuance of bonds);
      (4)   Represent the town in all suits or other actions at law which may
be brought by or against the town or a municipal utility or against an officer
or employee thereof in circumstances where the town would be liable for any
judgement, unless another attorney is employed for these purposes; and,
      (5)   Perform other duties and legal services as provided by ordinance
for the Town Attorney, or as directed by the Town Council, or the Town Council
President.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall receive as compensation for his or her service
an annual retainer, in an amount to be agreed between the appointee and the
Council, and set forth in the annual budget. In consideration of that retainer,
the Town Attorney shall perform the services described in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(3) above, without further charge to the town, except preparation of
annexation ordinances and preparation of a series of ordinances required or
appropriate to implement a change in state law. For services rendered by
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) above, when those services are authorized by the
Council, the Town Attorney shall be entitled to an additional legal fee unless
the retainer agreement provides otherwise.
   (D)   This section does not affect any existing retainer agreement between
the Town Council and Town Attorney when this section first takes effect, but
shall condition any subsequent retainer agreements.
('85 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C5, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 98-5-1, passed 5-
12-98)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Compensation and benefits of volunteers and paid complement
Administration and Enforcement
   
32.15   Executive Commissioners established for Fire Department and Police
Department
   
32.16   Power of Executive Commissioners to promulgate departmental operating
rules
   
32.17   Supervisory power
   
32.18   Emergency medical services fees
Equipment
   
32.30   Acquisition of equipment; restriction of use
Merit System
   
32.50   Merit Act adopted
   
32.51   Notice requirements, voting procedures for approval or rejection of
proposed merit system
   
32.52   Effective date and initial appointments
   
32.53   Effect of rejection of proposed merit system by active members of
Department
   
32.54   Membership of the Merit Commission
   
32.55   Commissioner qualifications
   
32.56   Commissioner terms, tenure, officers
   
32.57   Rules governing Commission; officers; budget
   
32.58   Member appointment; upper level policymakers
   
32.59   Merit ranks and appointed positions of the Department
   
32.60   Amendment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Town Council shall designate and enter into an agreement pursuant
to IC 36-8-12 with a volunteer fire company, having as its objectives the
following:
      (1)   To prevent uncontrolled fires from starting;
      (2)   To prevent loss of life and property in the event a fire does
start;
      (3)   To confine the fire to its place of origin;
      (4)   To extinguish uncontrolled fires; and,
      (5)   To provide rescue work and emergency medical services as equipment
or the training of personnel makes practical in the town.
   (B)   The town's Fire Department shall consist of the volunteer fire company
designated under this section, a paid fire chief and any paid firefighters
provided by the town under §
32.02.
   (C)   The duties of the Fire Chief shall be as follows:
      (1)   Keep records and make reports concerning activities of the Fire
Department as may be required by statute, ordinances, or directives of the Fire
Commissioner or the Town Council.
      (2)   Assign duties to members of the Fire Department and supervise and
direct members in the performance of those duties.
      (3)   Personally perform as necessary the general duties of a
firefighter.
      (4)   Perform other duties as directed by statute, ordinances, Town
Council or Fire Commissioner.
      (5)   Shall be commanding officer of the entire Fire Department, subject
to the laws of the United States, laws of the state, the county, and the
ordinances of the town.
      (6)   Enforce all fire safety codes prescribed by state statute.
      (7)   Be responsible for the following programs: training, inspections,
investigations, fire prevention, and any other programs deemed necessary for
the efficient operations of the Department.
('85 Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 1985-C7, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1995-5-1, passed 5-
9-95)
§ 32.02 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF VOLUNTEERS AND PAID COMPLEMENT.
   (A)   Members of the volunteer fire company designated under §
32.01 shall be provided with minimum insurance coverage as required under IC
36-8-12-6 through 8, and, unless otherwise provided in the agreement, with
minimum clothing and automobile allowances as prescribed under IC 36-8-12-5(a).
   (B)   The Town Council, as part of the agreement or otherwise, also may
provide nominal compensation or compensation on the basis of fire runs as
described under IC 36-8-12-2, and/or membership allowances as described by IC
36-8-12-5(b), for members of the volunteer fire company.
   (C)   The Town Council also may employ for the town any number of regular
paid firefighters to serve in conjunction with, but not as members of, the
volunteer fire company, as they may deem desirable to provide an adequate level
of competent and experienced fire service in the town, training for volunteer
members and so on.
   (D)   Paid firefighters shall be employees of the fire department and
entitled to an annual salary as fixed by the Town Council in the usual manner
and the other compensation and benefits as the Council may, in its discretion,
provide.
   (E)   Regular paid firefighters are subject to supervision and discipline by
the Town Fire Commissioner, as provided by §
31.08 and §
32.17.
('85 Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 1985-C7, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord., passed 7-8-97)
Cross-references:
   Executive commissioners established for Fire Department and Marshal
Department, see §
32.15
   Termination and suspension; appeal, see §
31.08
   Paid vacation allowance, see §
31.22
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.15 EXECUTIVE COMMISSIONERS ESTABLISHED FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT AND POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Commissioners, who shall be members of the Town Council appointed by
the Council or by its President with the Council's approval, shall have general
oversight and supervision responsibilities over police and fire.
   (B)   The Commissioners, as directed by the full Town Council, shall
promulgate policy as directed by the full Council and assure implementation by
their respective departments.
('85 Code, § § 2-3-6) (Ord. 1981-2, passed 3-11-81)
Cross-references:
   Termination; suspension; appeal, see §
31.08
   Marshal Department, see
Ch. 33
§ 32.16 POWER OF EXECUTIVE COMMISSIONERS TO PROMULGATE DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING
RULES.
   Each Commissioner shall have the authority to promulgate and implement
written rules and regulations for the conduct of operations of their respective
departments as shall seem necessary and proper to each Commissioner for the
effective operation of that department and for implementation of the Town
Council's policy in respect of that department. The written rules and
regulations shall become effective upon submission of the same to the full Town
Council for ratification at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting
following the adoption by the Commissioner of the written rules and
regulations. The Town Council, at that meeting, shall have the power to ratify
or disallow the same in total or in part, or amend the same as it may deem
appropriate.
('85 Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 1981-2, passed 3-11-81)
§ 32.17 SUPERVISORY POWER.
   Each Commissioner shall have the following authority regarding employment
relations and employee responsibility in his or her department: authority to
employ, terminate for cause, select, appoint, promote, suspend, reduce in grade
or demote any town employee under his or her supervision.
('85 Code, § 2-3-8) (Ord. 1981-2, passed 3-11-81)
§ 32.18 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FEES.
   (A)   There is established a schedule of fees for emergency medical services
provided by the town through the EMS staff of the Sheridan Fire Department. The
schedule of fees for services is set forth in the Town Fee Schedule, as may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Any person held in custody, confined or incarcerated by the town,
including but not limited to: individuals who are (i) under arrest, (ii)
incarcerated, (iii) imprisoned, (iv) escaped from confinement, (v) under
supervised release, (vi) on medical furlough, (vii) residing in a mental health
facility or halfway house, (viii) living under home detention, or (ix) confined
completely or partially in any way under a penal statute or rule; shall be
solely responsible for the payment of any medical services rendered to, and
received by, that person during the course of his or her confinement with the
town, or at the town’s or court’s direction, including without limitation,
transportation to and from a medical treatment facility, and any treatment
deemed necessary by his or her treating physician, whether or not requested by
the prisoner, and shall be required to reimburse the town, in full for any fees
or charges incurred for such services, if not paid directly to medical facility
or practitioner by the prisoner or his or her insurance carrier.
   (C)   All such fees so collected shall be accounted for in a manner
prescribed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts. All such funds so collected
shall be deposited as follows:
      (1)   Forty-five percent to the Ambulance Replacement Fund;
      (2)   Thirty percent to the EMS Equipment Replacement Fund;
      (3)   Ten percent to the EMS Billing Fund;
      (4)   Ten percent to the General Fund; and
      (5)   Five percent to EMS Education Fund.
   (D)   Except as specifically excluded by federal law relating to Medicare or
Medicaid payments, the town reserves the right to collect the entire fee which
may be due notwithstanding the fact that upon assignment of insurance recovery,
the insurance pays less than the full amount due.
   (E)   A fee of $20 shall be assessed for any check returned to the town or
its agents as nonpayment for any reason, including but not limited to, non-
sufficient funds, stop payment order, missing signature or an action which
prohibits the check from being honored for payment of emergency medical
services performed by the town’s EMS staff. The fee shall be in addition to the
charge for emergency medical services.
(Ord. 2012-5-2, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord. 2012-10-1, passed 10-25-12; Am. Ord.
2013-4-1, passed 4-11-13; Am. Ord. 2017-4, passed 4-24-17; Am. Ord. 2017-13,
passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 2018-8, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2022-09, passed 7-5-
22; Am. Ord. 2022-19, passed 9-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-7-23'; Am. Ord.
2024-13, passed 11-7-24)
EQUIPMENT
§ 32.30 ACQUISITION OF EQUIPMENT; RESTRICTION OF USE.
   The town may purchase, lease or lend existing fire equipment and facilities
and maintain them for use of the volunteer fire company designated under §
32.01. Unless otherwise provided by the agreement, all the equipment and
facilities shall remain the property of the town and not of the volunteer fire
company and the town Fire Commissioner or Town Council may make and enforce
rules governing and restricting use of that equipment and facilities.
('85 Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 1985-C7, passed 9-16-85)
MERIT SYSTEM
§ 32.50 MERIT ACT ADOPTED.
   The Council hereby adopts the provisions of the Merit Act in its entirety to
govern the selection and appointment of persons to be employed as members of
the Department, and to govern the promotion, demotion, discipline and dismissal
of members of the Department, all in accordance with the terms and provisions
of IC 36-8-3.5-1 et seq., subject to the following revised, omitted or amended
provisions:
   (A)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-6(b) and (c) requiring the political
affiliation of Commission appointees to be determined by examining the prior
three primaries shall not be binding on the Commission. Political affiliation
of Commission appointees shall be determined in accordance with IC 36-1-8-10.
   (B)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-6(d) requiring members of the Commission
to be a legal resident of the town for three consecutive years shall not be
binding on the Commission in the event the reorganization of the town with
Adams Township is approved at referendum. In such event, members of the
Commission must have been legal residents of the town or Adams Township for
three consecutive years. The three consecutive year residency requirement may
be waived entirely on a case-by-case basis with the approval of the Council.
   (C)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-9(a) requiring the Commission to adopt
rules of governance within 30 days after the Commission is selected shall not
be binding on the Commission. Rules of governance shall be adopted by the
Commission at the time of adoption of the rules provided for in §
32.57.
   (D)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-12(f) requiring a hiring list to remain
open for a period of two years shall not be binding on the Commission. Any
then-current hiring list may be retired by the Commission at any time if the
Commission finds it is in the best interest of the Department.
   (E)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-13(b) requiring promotions to be made
from the next lower rank shall not apply to the appointed positions defined in
§
32.59.
   (F)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-13(c) requiring a promotion eligibility
list to remain open for a period of two years shall not be binding on the
Commission. The then-current eligibility list may be retired by the Commission
at any time if the Commission finds it to be in the best interest of the
Department.
   (G)   The provisions of IC 36-8-3.5-13(c) requiring a performance rating at
least every six months shall not be binding on the Commission. If approved by
the Commission, performance ratings for members of the Department shall be made
at least every 12 months.
   (H)   The provisions of IC 36-8-1-12 defining upper level policymaking
position shall not be binding on the Commission. Upper level policy making
positions for the Department shall be as stated in §
32.58.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.51 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS, VOTING PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OR REJECTION OF
PROPOSED MERIT SYSTEM. 
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-4 and within 60 days after the adoption of this
subchapter, the Chief of the Department (the Chief), on behalf of the Council,
shall give at least three weeks' notice to all active members of the Department
that a vote will be held to approve or reject the proposed merit system. The
notice shall be given by posting it in prominent places in all stations of the
Department and shall designate the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
Additionally, the following must occur: a copy of Ordinance 2024-14 must be
distributed to each active member of the Department at least one week before
the date of the meeting; only active members of the Department may attend the
meeting; at the meeting one member of the Department shall be selected as chair
of the meeting, and all voting must be by secret written ballot.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.52 EFFECTIVE DATE AND INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.
   If a majority of the active members of the Department vote to approve the
merit system, the merit system shall take effect on January 1, 2025.
Appointments to the Commission shall be made by March 1, 2025.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.53 EFFECT OF REJECTION OF PROPOSED MERIT SYSTEM BY ACTIVE MEMBERS OF
DEPARTMENT.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-4(e), if a majority of the active members of the
Department vote to reject the proposed merit system, another proposal for a
merit system may not be put to a vote within one year after the day the initial
vote is held.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.54 MEMBERSHIP OF THE MERIT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Fire Merit Commission (the Commission) shall consist of five
members selected as follows:
      (1)   Two persons appointed by the President of the Town Council;
      (2)   One person appointed by the Town Council; and
      (3)   Two persons elected by the active members of the Department.
   (B)   The political affiliation requirements of IC 36-8-3.5-6(b) and (c)
shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-1-8-10.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.55 COMMISSIONER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each member of the Commission must have been a legal resident of the town
for three consecutive years immediately preceding their appointment and must be
a person of good moral character. In the event the planned reorganization of
the town and Adams Township is approved by referendum, Commissioners must have
been legal residents of the town or Adams Township for three consecutive years.
The three-year resident requirement may be waived in its entirety by the
Council. A member must be at least 21 years of age. Commissioners may not be an
active member of the Department and not more than two Commissioners may be past
members of the Department. In addition, a person may not serve on the
Commission if the person receives any renumeration as salary from the town.
Each Commissioner shall take an oath of office to conscientiously discharge the
Commissioner's duties. A signed copy of the oath shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.56 COMMISSIONER TERMS, TENURE, OFFICERS.
   The term of a Commissioner is four years. However, one of the Council
President's initial selections and one of the members' initial selections are
for terms of two years. A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled within 30
days by the appointing or electing authority. The selection is for the
remainder of the unexpired term. A Commissioner serves at the pleasure of the
appointing or electing authority and may be removed at any time. Removal and
replacement of member appointees shall be in accordance with IC 36-8-3.5-7(c).
At the first meeting of each year the Commissioners shall select from among
their number a President, Vice President, and Secretary who shall serve until
their replacements are selected. The Commission shall keep a permanent record
of its proceedings. Commissioners may receive a per diem for each day of actual
service if approved by the Council. The Council shall include in its annual
budget sufficient funds for the operation of the Commission.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.57 RULES GOVERNING COMMISSION; OFFICERS; BUDGET.
   (A)   Not later than 90 days after the Commission is selected, the
Commission shall adopt rules governing the Commission (rules), including the
time and place of regular and special meetings that are necessary to transact
business of the Commission. A majority of the Commissioners constitutes a
quorum, and a majority vote of all the Commissioners is necessary to transact
the business of the Commission. The rules shall include procedures governing at
least the following:
      (1)   Rules of governance for the Commission as provided in IC 36-8-3.5-9
(a);
      (2)   The selection and appointment of persons to be employed as members
of the Department, subject to applicable pension statutes;
      (3)   Promotions and demotions of members of the Department; and
      (4)   Disciplinary action or dismissal of members of the Department.
    (B)   The rules adopted by the Commission may diverge from the requirements
of the Merit Act if such divergent provisions are approved by the Council.
Before the rules are adopted by the Commission, the Commission must hold a
public hearing to consider the adoption of the proposed rules. At least ten
days before the public hearing, the Commission must have a notice of the
hearing published in accordance with IC 5-3-1. The notice must state the time
and place of the hearing and give briefly the subject matter of the proposed
rules. Further notice of the hearing shall be posted as required by IC 36-8-
3.5-l0(c) and (d).
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.58 MEMBER APPOINTMENT; UPPER LEVEL POLICYMAKERS.
   The Commission may appoint and remove members of the Department and
certified employees (as defined in IC 36-8-3.5-3(b)) in accordance with the
rules, except for a member in an upper level policymaking position. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the term UPPER LEVEL POLICYMAKING POSITION shall
mean the Chief and the Deputy Chief of the Department only. The President of
the Town Council shall appoint, and may remove, the Chief of the Department.
The Chief of the Department shall appoint, and may remove, the Deputy Chief.
The removal of a member of the Department from an upper level policymaking
position is removal from appointed rank only and not from the Department. When
a member in an upper level policymaking position is removed, the member shall
be appointed by the Commission to the merit rank in the Department that the
member held at the time of the member's upper level policymaking position
appointment or to any merit rank to which the member had been promoted during
the member's tenure in the upper level policymaking position. If such a rank is
not then currently open, the member is entitled to the pay of that rank.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.59 MERIT RANKS AND APPOINTED POSITIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Commission's rules shall establish the following merit ranks and
appointed positions in the Department:
      (1)   Merit ranks: Captain, Lieutenant, and Firefighter.
      (2)   Appointed positions: Chief and Deputy Chief.
   (B)   Unless otherwise determined by the Commission, each full time member
of the Department shall be appointed to a merit rank as determined by the
Commission upon their completion of their probationary period. Additional merit
ranks and appointed ranks in the Department shall only be created at the
request of the Commission and with the approval of the Council. The number of
members of the Department in each Department rank shall be as determined by the
Commission subject to the funding of such positions by the Council.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
§ 32.60 AMENDMENT.
   This subchapter may be amended from time to time by the Council as provided
in IC 36-8-3.5-5.5(g); provided that, no such amendment shall reduce the number
of Commission members elected by the members of the Department to less than
one-third of all Commission members.
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 11-7-24)
CHAPTER 33: BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS; POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Creation of Board and Board membership
   
33.02   Powers and duties of the Board
   
33.03   Appropriations
   
33.04   Probationary appointments
   
33.05   Payment of line of duty health care expenses for police
   
33.06   Body armor
   33.07   Police reserve program
Editor's note: Per Ord. 2021-11, all other references within this Code of
Ordinances to "Town Marshal" and the "Marshal Department" should be interpreted
as "Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners" and "Police Department",
respectively.
§ 33.01 CREATION OF BOARD AND BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners shall be established for
the Town of Sheridan and three Commissioners shall be appointed by the Town
Council pursuant to IC 36-8-9-3.
   (B)   Each Board member must be a resident of the town.
   (C)   After the initial appointments, the term of each Board member shall
expire January 1 of the third year after the member's appointment. The terms
must stagger for each member. The first appointments must be as follows:
      (1)   One member shall serve for one year from January 1, 2022 to
December 31, 2022;
      (2)   One member shall serve for two years from January 1, 2022 to
December 31, 2024; and
      (3)   One member shall serve for three years from January 1, 2022 to
December 31, 2025.
   (D)   The Town Council may remove a Board member for any cause that the
Council considers sufficient.
   (E)   The Town Council may not appoint a police officer employed by the town
to serve on the Board.
   (F)   A member of the Council may serve as an ex officio member of the
Board. A maximum of two Council members can be concurrent Board members. A
Council member may no longer serve on the Board if he/she vacates his/her
position on the Council, unless the active members of the Council vote to allow
the member to finish the remainder of his/her term. Council members on the
Board may not receive compensation as a Board member and are not required to
post a bond.
   (G)   Before performing any function of a Board member, an individual shall
take and swear an oath or affirmation before the Circuit Court Clerk of
Hamilton County. The Circuit Court Clerk shall file oaths and affirmations
among the Circuit Court Clerk's records.
   (H)   A Board member shall give a bond in the penal sum of $5,000, payable
to the state and conditioned upon the faithful and honest discharge of the
member's duties. The bond must be approved by the Council.
   (I)   The initial salary of the members of the Board of Metropolitan Police
Commissioners shall be $0.
   (J)   The Town of Sheridan's Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners
shall be governed by IC 36-8-9 et seq. and all future amendments.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may appoint, subject to the qualifications for employment
determined by the Board and approved by the Town Council, as many persons as
necessary to serve in the Police Department of the town. One person shall be
appointed to serve as the Police Chief. The Board may also appoint other
employees that are necessary to carry on the work of the Police Department.
   (B)   The Board may recommend and the Town Council shall determine the
compensation to be paid to members of the Police Department in amounts that are
just and reasonable.
   (C)   All persons appointed must be of good moral character and serve only
during good behavior.
   (D)   The Board constitutes the Safety Board of the town for purposes of the
suspension, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the Police Department.
Proceedings for the suspension, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the
Police Department shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by IC 36-8-3-4.
The disciplinary provisions of IC 36-8-3-4.1 also apply to the Safety Board and
the Police Chief.
   (E)   The Board may make general and special rules for the government and
discipline of the Police Department and may make special and general orders to
the Department through the Police Chief, who is the executive head of the
Department.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.03 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to pay the salaries of
the members of the town Police Department.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.04 PROBATIONARY APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Board may provide that all appointments to the Police Department
are probationary for a period not to exceed one year.
   (B)   If the Board finds, upon the recommendation of the Chief during the
probationary period, that the conduct or capacity of a member is not
satisfactory, the Board shall notify the member in writing that the member is
being suspended or that the member will not receive a permanent appointment.
   (C)   If a member is notified that the member will not receive a permanent
appointment, the member's employment immediately ceases. Otherwise, at the
expiration of the probationary period, the member is considered regularly
employed.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF LINE OF DUTY HEALTH CARE EXPENSES FOR POLICE.
   (A)   The town shall pay for the care of a full-time, paid police officer
who:
      (1)   Suffers an injury; or
      (2)   Contracts an illness;
during the performance of the officer's duty.
   (B)   The town shall pay for the following expenses incurred by a police
officer described in division (A) above:
      (1)   Medical and surgical care;
      (2)   Medicines and laboratory, curative, and palliative agents and
means;
      (3)   X-ray, diagnostic, and therapeutic service, including during the
recovery period; and
      (4)   Hospital and special nursing care if the physician or surgeon in
charge considers it necessary for proper recovery.
   (C)   Expenditures required by this section shall be paid from the General
Fund of the town.
   (D)   A town that has paid for the care of a police officer under division
(A) has a cause of action for reimbursement of the amount paid under division
(A) against any third party against whom the police officer has a cause of
action for an injury sustained because of, or an illness caused by, the third
party. The town's cause of action is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the
cause of action of the police officer against the third party.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.06 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BODY ARMOR. Has the meaning set forth in IC 35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   The town shall provide all active members of the Police Department
with body armor for the torso. The town shall replace the body armor for the
torso according to the replacement period recommended by the manufacturer of
the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   An active member of the Police Department shall not be required to pay
for maintenance of the body armor for the torso.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso remains the property of the town. The town
may sell the property when it becomes unfit for use, and all money received
shall be paid into the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-27-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 5-17-22)
§ 33.07 POLICE RESERVE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Police reserve officers may not be members of the regular Police
Department but have all of the same police powers as regular members, except as
limited by the rules of the Department, in accordance with IC 36-8-3-20, as
amended.
   (B)   Police reserve officers must follow all Department rules and
regulations, policies and standard operating procedures.
   (C)   The number of officers in the reserve program shall not exceed 11,
unless Council determines during the annual budget process that more are
needed.
   (D)   Officers in the reserve program shall be appointed by the Chief of
Police with final approval by the Sheridan Metropolitan Police Commission.
   (E)   Officers in the reserve program shall be known as the Town of Sheridan
reserve police officers.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 7-5-22)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE; REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   General Fund as presumptive depository
   
34.02   Non-included official entities or funds
   
34.03   Money and fees collected by officers and employees delivered to Clerk-
Treasurer; disposition
   
34.04   Levy Excess Fund established
   
34.05   Special Deposit Fund created
   
34.06   Firearms Training Fund
   
34.07   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
34.08   Cumulative Capital Development Fund; tax levies
   
34.09   Authority to invest town money
   
34.10   Investment of utility money
   
34.11   Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund
   
34.12   Sewage Works Operating and Maintenance Fund
   
34.13   Sewage Works Improvement Fund
   
34.14   Segregation of sewage works funds; deposits of investments
   
34.15   Accounting of sewage works funds; annual financial report; availability
to bond holders
   
34.16   Claim payments in advance of Council allowance; advance payment
authorization
   
34.17   Drug and Narcotic Enforcement Fund
   
34.18   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.19   Self Insurance Payment Fund
   
34.20   Petty cash funds
   
34.21   Expenses and credit card use by town officials
   
34.22   Copying fee for Comprehensive Plan
   
34.23   Donation Fund
   
34.24   Sign Fund
   
34.25   4th of July Donation Fund
   
34.26   Stormwater Petty Cash Fund
   
34.27   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
34.28   ARP Fund
   
34.29   EMS Education Fund
   
34.29.1   Lighting Project Fund
   
34.29.2   PSAP LIT Fund
   
34.29.3   AED Stations Fund
   
34.29.4   Reorganized town funds
Purchasing
   
34.30   Definitions
   
34.31   General purchasing policies
   
34.32   Publication of notices
   
34.33   Sending electronic notices
   
34.34   Receiving of offers
   
34.35   Small purchases
   
34.36   Designated Purchasing Agents; limitations
   
34.37   Capital expenditures
   
34.38   Purchase of services
   
34.39   Emergencies
   
34.40   Contracting requirements for relatives of elected officials
   
34.41   Contractor’s E-Verify and unauthorized alien requirements
   
34.42   Contractor’s additional requirements
Materiality Policy; Reporting Material Item Irregularities
   
34.50   Erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts
   
34.51   Reporting of cash irregularities to Oversight Committee of Town Council
   
34.52   Reporting of non-cash irregularities to Oversight Committee of Town
Council
   
34.53   Reporting of cash irregularities to State Board of Accounts
   
34.54   Reporting of non-cash irregularities to State Board of Accounts
Internal Control Policy
   
34.60   Internal control policy adopted
Capital Asset Policy
   
34.70   General information
   
34.71   Definitions of capital assets
   
34.72   Valuation of capital assets
   
34.73   Asset definitions by major category
   
34.74   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
34.75   Periodic inventories
Financial Procedures
   
34.85   Bad debt write-off
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater Management Fund, see §
53.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 GENERAL FUND AS PRESUMPTIVE DEPOSITORY.
   All money received by the town, regardless of the source of intended use,
shall accrue to and be deposited in the general fund of the town unless the
nature, source of intended use of that money is such that a provision of this
code of ordinances or of law or of an applicable state or federal
administrative regulation specifies that they accrue to and be deposited in
some other fund.
('85 Code, § 1-5-3)
Cross-references:
   Motor vehicle accident report account and fee, see §
70.04
   Fee for verification of motor vehicle titles and registrations, see §
70.05
§ 34.02 NON-INCLUDED OFFICIAL ENTITIES OR FUNDS.
   This code of ordinances is not necessarily comprehensive and all-inclusive
with respect to existing governmental officers, officials, other official
entities nor funds. The fact that any existing officer, official, other
official entity or fund is not created by or set forth by an expressed
provision of this code does not imply the entity or fund does not lawfully
exist nor that it is intended to be terminated or abolished and to the extent
that any such entity or fund is lawfully extant at the time of the adoption and
taking effect of this code, the same shall continue in existence thereafter
unless expressly terminated or abolished by subsequent action of the Town
Council or by other authority competently empowered.
('85 Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 34.03 MONEY AND FEES COLLECTED BY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DELIVERED TO CLERK-
TREASURER; DISPOSITION.
   Every officer or employee of the town or a municipal entity shall, at least
once a day, turn over to the Clerk-Treasurer all money received by him or her
in his or her official capacity, with a statement showing the purpose and
source from which received. If the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is not open
for business on a day or time when money is received, it shall be delivered to
the Clerk-Treasurer at the earliest subsequent opportunity. An officer or
employee may not directly retain any portion of money collected, but the Town
Council may, by ordinance, provided certain officers or employees be
compensated on the basis of a portion of fees collected. Unless otherwise
provided by statute or ordinance, fees and other money shall be deposited in
the general fund.
('85 Code, § 2-7-1) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.04 LEVY EXCESS FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of IC 6-1.1-18.5-7, there is
hereby established a Levy Excess Fund, into which shall be receipted, in any
tax year for which the town's actual receipts from ad valorem property tax
levies exceed 102% of the total nominal ad valorem levy as provided in the
approved and certified town budget, the lesser of the following amounts:
      (1)   The actual amount by which receipts exceed 102% of the nominal
levy; or
      (2)   $100.
   (B)   Money deposited in the Levy Excess Fund may only be used for purposes
authorized by the state Board of Tax Commissioners, but may be invested and any
earnings distributed in the same manner as for other town money.
('85 Code, § 2-7-2) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.05 SPECIAL DEPOSIT FUND CREATED.
   (A)   There hereby is established a separate, non-reverting fund of the town
to be known as the Special Deposit Fund, into which shall be deposited the
money collected, received or held by the town on a temporary or conditional
basis only.
   (B)   Money which may be deposited in the Special Deposit Fund includes:
      (1)   Cash bonds or security deposits.
      (2)   Any conditional license or permit application fees (or portion
thereof) which would be subject to refund if the license or permit is not
granted.
      (3)   Any money collected by the town as agent for another governmental
entity or other person, and required by law, ordinance or contractual agreement
to be paid over to the other entity or person.
      (4)   Any money collected or received and held by the town as trustee for
the benefit of and eventual payment over to another person;
      (5)   Any money (or portion thereof) believed to have been erroneously
collected or received and eventually requiring refund or transfer to another
entity or person.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may draw warrants on and make payments from the
Special Deposit Fund to persons to whom the money is lawfully and properly
owing without appropriation and without prior allowance of a claim.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest money on deposit in the Special
Deposit Fund in the same manner as prescribed for investment of other town
money.
      (2)   In the event any money deposited in the Special Deposit Fund become
subject, for any reason, to absolute possession by the town, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall transfer that money to the General Fund or to another fund to
which that money would properly have accrued had it been subject to absolute
possession by the town in the first instance and the Clerk-Treasurer may make
the transfer without any further authorization.
('85 Code, § 2-7-3) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.06 FIREARMS TRAINING FUND.
   Pursuant to IC 35-47-2-3(b), any person submitting an application to the
Town Marshal for a license to carry a handgun, either qualified or unlimited,
shall pay to the town an application fee of $10. Of this fee, $5 shall be
immediately deposited in a special non-reverting fund to be known as the
Firearms Training Fund, which the Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain
and which may only be budgeted and expended for firearms training or other law
enforcement training for the Town Marshal's office. The remaining $5 first
shall be credited to the Special Deposit Fund and shall be refunded to the
applicant if the application is denied or shall be transferred to the Firearms
Training Fund when the application is approved.
('85 Code, § 2-7-4) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
Editor’s note:
   The fee provisions of this section apply to handgun license applications
prior to July 1, 2020. For fee provisions for handgun license applications
after June 30, 2020, see IC 35-47-2-3(c).
§ 34.07 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND; TAX LEVIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund,
into which the proceeds of cigarette tax money will be deposited after being
received from distribution from the state for the purposes as hereafter
outlined and as provided by Chapter 225 of the Acts of 1965, as amended; the
fund to remain in effect and in existence for so long as statutory
authorization therefor remains in existence in the state. Funds deposited in
this capital improvement fund may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   For acquisition of real property, buildings, rights-of-way or
easements.
      (2)   For construction or improvement of municipally owned property,
including, but not limited to, streets and sewers.
      (3)   For payment of salaries or wages of public officials or employees,
but only to the extent that the compensation is directly attributable to
services performed in connection with functions described under divisions (A)
(1) and (A)(2) above;
   (B)   The Town Council may, by resolution, transfer any unappropriated money
in the cigarette tax cumulative capital improvement fund to the General Fund at
any time, and use that transferred money for any purpose for which General Fund
money may lawfully be appropriated and expended.
('85 Code, § 2-7-5) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.08 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND; TAX LEVIES.
   (A)   (1)   There hereby is established a Cumulative Capital Development
Fund for the town, in accordance with Acts 1984, PL 44. An ad valorem property
tax levy will be imposed and revenues from the levy retained in the Cumulative
Capital Development Fund. The rate of levy shall be in the amount as
established by ordinance of the Town Council for the indicated tax year.
      (2)   Funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund will
be used for the purposes of a General Improvement Fund. However, those funds
may be expended for other purposes to protect the public health, safety and
welfare in an emergency which demands immediate action if the Town Council
President has issued a declaration that the public health, safety or welfare is
in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the fund.
('85 Code, § 2-7-6) (Ord. passed 8-28-84; Am. Ord. 2012-6-1, passed 6-14-12;
Am. Ord. 2012-7-1, passed 7-26-12)
   (B)   There hereby is established a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for
all uses as set out in IC 36-9-15.5.
(Am. Ord. 2019-4, passed 3-11-19)
§ 34.09 AUTHORITY TO INVEST TOWN MONEY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer may invest surplus money of, or on deposit with,
the town and not required for immediate expenditure.
      (1)   Investments may be made in any security or investment instrument
authorized by IC 5-13-9, but subject to any public depository distribution
requirements as provided by former IC 5-13-8-10, if applicable to the
investment.
Editor's note:
   IC 5-13-8-10, cited in division (A)(1) of this section, was repealed
effective 3-21-96
      (2)   Investment shall be made in instruments having sufficient liquidity
to permit the town to meet its expenditure requirements in a timely manner and
shall not be made in any security maturing in more than one year from the date
of the investment unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines, on a reasonable basis,
that all money so invested is not likely to be required for a longer period of
time.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may sell or otherwise liquidate an investment if
the investment money should prove to be needed to pay the expenses of the town
in order to make a more advantageous investment or to forestall principal
devaluation.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by law, applicable state or federal
administrative regulations or town ordinance, investments shall be made from
total money on deposit rather than by specific fund and all earnings or amounts
of capital gain realized from the investment shall accrue to the general fund
and only the amount of original principal shall be returned to the fund or
origin.
   (D)   To the extent not inconsistent with the foregoing requirements of this
section, money from different funds may be combined and put in a single
investment if a financial advantage to the town would result. When any
investment is made in accordance with this section and applicable laws, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall not be held personally liable for any loss of principal
which may incidentally result from the making or necessary sale or liquidation
of the investment.
('85 Code, § 2-7-7) (Ord. 1985-C9, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.10 INVESTMENT OF UTILITY MONEY.
   In accordance with IC 8-1.5-3-13, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized
to invest the surplus money on deposit in any of the funds of the municipally
owned utilities and to sell or liquidate the investments as money is required
or for the purpose of reinvestment. Investment shall be made and earnings or
capital gains deposited in the same manner as prescribed for investment of
other town money, except that any interest earnings attributable to invested
money from any utility bond sinking fund shall accrue to and be deposited in
the sinking fund rather than in the town's General Fund. Notwithstanding any
other provision, the Clerk-Treasurer, for the purposes of this section, may
issue a check on any utility fund, including a sinking fund, to make or
purchase the investment and to pay any associated transaction fees or other
necessary charges deriving from the making, purchase, sale or liquidation of
the investment.
('85 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 1985-C9, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.11 WATER UTILITY CASH RESERVE FUND.
   Pursuant to IC 8-1.5-3-11(b), there is hereby established for the town's
waterworks as Water Utility Cash Reserve Fund, into which there shall be
deposited any surplus earnings, as defined by IC 8-1.5-3-11(c), of the
waterworks. Subject to the provisions of IC 8-1.5-3-11(a), the money may be
transferred to the town's General Fund at times and for purposes described by
IC 8-1.5-3-11(d) or 11(e) or may be used to make loans to any other municipal
utility in accordance with IC 8-1.5-3-11(f).
('85 Code, § 4-2-25) (Ord. 1985-C16, passed 9-16-85)
§ 34.12 SEWAGE WORKS OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   There hereby is created fund to be known as the Operation and Maintenance
Fund, to which there shall be credited, as of the last day of each calendar
month, a sufficient amount of the revenues of the sewage works so that the
balance in the fund shall be sufficient to pay the expense and operation and
maintenance for the next two succeeding calendar months. The money credited to
this fund shall be used for the payment of the reasonable and proper operation,
repair and maintenance expenses of the sewage works on a day-to-day basis, but
none of the money in the fund shall be used for depreciation, replacements,
improvements, extensions or additions. The money in the fund may be transferred
to the Bond Fund if needed to prevent a default.
('85 Code, § 4-4-18) (Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-8-83)
§ 34.13 SEWAGE WORKS IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There hereby is created a fund to be known as the Sewage Works Improvement
Fund, to which there shall be transferred or credited any net revenues
remaining after the requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund and
Sewage Works Bond Fund have been met. Money in the Improvement Fund shall be
used in making good depreciation in the sewage works or in the construction of
extensions, additions or improvements to the system. Money in the Improvement
Fund shall be transferred to the Bond Fund if necessary to prevent a default in
the payment of principal of or interest on the outstanding bonds or may be
transferred to the Operation and maintenance Fund to meet unforeseen
contingencies in the operation and maintenance of the sewage works. Money in
the Improvement Fund also may be applied to the purchase or redemption of
bonds.
('85 Code, § 4-4-19) (Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-8-83)
§ 34.14 SEGREGATION OF SEWAGE WORKS FUNDS; DEPOSITS OF INVESTMENTS.
   All funds of the sewage works shall be segregated and kept separate and
apart from all other funds of the town and shall be deposited in lawful
depositories of the town and continuously held and secured as public funds in
accordance with the public depository laws of the state. However, money therein
may be invested in obligations in accordance with the applicable laws,
including particularly IC 5-13-9, as amended or supplemented, and in the event
of the investment, the income therefrom shall become a part of the funds
invested or transferred as provided herein and shall be used only as provided
in this chapter. The Sewage Works Bond Fund shall be deposited in and
maintained as a separate bank account or accounts, apart from all other bank
accounts of the town. The Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Sewage Works
Improvement Fund may be maintained in a single bank account or accounts, but
that bank account or accounts, shall likewise be maintained separate and apart
from all other bank accounts of the town and apart from the Sewage Works Bond
Fund bank account or accounts.
('85 Code, § 4-4-20) (Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-8-83)
§ 34.15 ACCOUNTING OF SEWAGE WORKS FUNDS; ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT; AVAILABILITY
TO BOND HOLDERS.
   The town shall keep proper books and records of account separate from all of
its other records and accounts, in which complete and correct entries shall be
made showing all revenues received on account of the operation of the sewage
works, all disbursements made therefrom and all transactions relating to the
sewage works. There shall be prepared and furnished to the original purchaser
of the bonds, and upon written request, to any holder of the bonds, an annual
report setting out complete operating, income and financial statements and
balance sheet of the sewage works, in reasonable detail, covering the preceding
fiscal year. That report shall be prepared and furnished within 60 days after
the close of each fiscal year and shall be certified by the Clerk-Treasurer, or
the same may be prepared by an independent certified public accountant employed
for that purpose. The expense of the certified public accountant shall be
considered an operation and maintenance expense. Copies of all the statements
and reports shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
('85 Code, § 4-4-21) (Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-8-83)
§ 34.16 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL ALLOWANCE; ADVANCE PAYMENT
AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Pre-approved payment of claims.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to make claim
payments in advance of Council allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
         (a)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
            1.   The United States government; or
            2.   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
         (b)   License fees or permit fees;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
         (e)   Federal grant programs if:
            1.   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
            2.   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced;
         (f)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
         (g)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
         (h)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
         (i)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
         (j)   Payroll and all employee funds withheld from his/her pay;
         (k)   State, federal, or county taxes;
         (l)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
         (m)   Expenses described in any ordinance;
         (n)   Fuel bills;
         (o)   Any claim that will incur a late charge if its due date falls
before a scheduled Town Council meeting.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is also hereby authorized to make
claim payments in advance of Council allowance in accordance with IC 5-11-10-
1.6, as amended. Those include:
         (a)   Advance payments to contractors to enable the contractors to
purchase materials needed for a public works project for the town, so long as
the amount does not exceed the lesser of the following:
            1.   Fifty percent of the entire cost of the contract.
            2.    Two million dollars.
         (b)   The solicitation for the public works contract providing for
advance payment for contractors must include the following information:
            1.   That the political subdivision will make advance payments to
contractors to enable contractors to purchase materials.
            2.   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made.
            3.   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance
payments to contractors for materials.
            4.   Any other information about advance payment for materials the
political subdivision considers useful to contractors that make offers.
         (c)   Advance payments for goods or services before the goods are
delivered or services are completed, so long as the amount does not exceed the
lesser of the following:
            1.   Fifty percent of the entire cost of the contract.
            2.   Two million dollars.
         (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer and/or his or her designee must do all of
the following when advance payments are made:
            1.   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase
order.
            2.   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the
purchase order.
            3.   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the
prepayment if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
      (3)   Each payment of expenses under this division (A) must be supported
by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next
regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
      (5)   This division (A) shall be effective upon passage.
   (B)   Advance payment authorization.
      (1)   The Council is hereby authorized to make advance payments for goods
or services before the goods are delivered or services are completed in
compliance with the act and this division (B).
      (2)   Advance payments for goods and services may not exceed the lesser
of the following:
         (a)   Fifty percent of the entire cost of the contract;
         (b)   Thirty thousand dollars.
      (3)   In the event that advance payments are made, the Clerk-Treasurer,
as the fiscal officer of the Council, shall do the following as required by the
act:
         (a)   Track any prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase
order;
         (b)   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the purchase
order; and
         (c)   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the
prepayment if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
      (4)   This division (B) shall be effective immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. 1995-9-3, passed 9-28-95; Am. Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 4-9-09; Am. Ord.
2024-02, passed 1-2-24; Am. Res. 2024-11, passed 9-3-24)
§ 34.17 DRUG AND NARCOTIC ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby created a non-reverting fund to be known as the Drug and
Narcotic Enforcement Fund. The purpose of the fund is to help with the expenses
incurred from drug and narcotic enforcement activities, equipment, training,
and other needs as may arise.
(Ord. 2003-12-1, passed 12-9-03)
§ 34.18 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-1-8-5.1, the town hereby establishes a Rainy Day
Fund.
      (1)   The purposes of the Fund include: cases of fiscal emergency
declared by the Council; matching funds for state, federal or grant funding.
      (2)   The sources of funding of the Fund shall include unused and
unencumbered funds under: IC 36-1-8-5; IC 6-3.5-1.1-21.1; IC 6-3.5-6-17.3; IC
6-3.5-7-17.3; any donations specifically designated for deposit into the Fund;
and any other funding source allowed by law.
(Ord. 2008-2-2, passed 2-21-08)
   (B)   There is hereby created a Fund 261 Rainy Day Restricted Fund for
deposit of local road and street transfers, which may be subsequently
transferred to a Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund, to serve as local
match dollars.
   (C)   There is hereby created a Fund 263 Rainy Day Restricted Fund for
deposit of MVH transfers, which may be subsequently transferred to a Local Road
and Bridge Matching Grant Fund, to serve as local match dollars.
(Am. Ord. 2016-7-1, passed 7-28-16; Am. Ord. 2016-12-1, passed 12-22-16)
Editor’s notes:
   IC 6-3.5-1.1 was repealed by P.L.243-2015, Sec.1.
   IC 6-3.5-6 was repealed by P.L.243-2015, Sec.7.
   IC 7-3.5-7 was repealed by P.S. 243-2015, Sec. 8.
§ 34.19 SELF INSURANCE PAYMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to create and maintain a
separate fund within the town finances to be utilized for the insurance
premiums for the benefit of those persons insured through the town.
   (B)   This fund so created shall be used for no other purpose and the
disbursements shall be pursuant to the procedures for all the disbursements of
the town.
(Ord. 2008-9-1, passed 9-25-08)
§ 34.20 PETTY CASH FUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish petty cash funds
for the efficient day to day operation of the Clerk and other town department
operations.
   (B)   The funds to be created shall be:
      (1)   Water Department Petty Cash Fund, not to exceed $40.
      (2)   Wastewater Department Petty Cash Fund, not to exceed $40.
      (3)   Clerk-Treasurer Petty Cash Fund, not to exceed $100.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the accounting of all
funds deposited and utilized from said accounts. All cash in excess of the
stated amounts shall be deposited into the General Fund. Any funds necessary to
initiate and maintain these accounts shall come from the General Fund. The
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to transfer amounts between funds to
maintain their viability for their intended use.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed - -09)
§ 34.21 EXPENSES AND CREDIT CARD USE BY TOWN OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to procure credit cards for
use by all elected officials and department heads for expenses that are
incurred in the business in the name of the town. The cards shall be at no
annual fee.
   (B)   All department heads are also authorized to approve other expenses by
their departmental employees in the course of town business. These expenses
include but shall not be limited to community events, educational events,
travel and lodging expenses, memberships and any other expense deemed by the
department head to be necessary in the carrying out of the business of the
town.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to draft policies and
procedures for the proper use of town credit cards by elected officials and
department heads in the performance of their duties. Those policies and
procedures shall be subject to future Council approval.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall administer the credit card charges as all
other claims and shall record them in the proper and prescribed manner.
(Ord. 2009-12-4, passed 12-17-09)
§ 34.22 COPYING FEE FOR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect a fee of $33 for one hard copy of the
town’s Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2013 and shall collect a fee of $0.21 for
one compact disc containing one copy of the town’s Comprehensive Plan adopted
in 2013. All such fees so collected shall be accounted for in a manner
prescribed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2014-1-1, passed 1-9-14)
§ 34.23 DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby created the Sheridan Donation Fund
(“Fund”) which shall be maintained as a separate account within the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. The Fund shall be used for the sole purpose of
the health, safety and welfare of the town.
   (B)   Donations to Fund. The town may accept any type of gift, devise or
bequest of money or property; provided, however, any donation containing
restrictions on its use will not be accepted by the town unless reviewed and
accepted by the Town Council. The Town Council may refuse to accept any gift,
devise or bequest. The town may place in the Fund such town resources as the
Town Council deems advisable.
   (C)   Investment of Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer may invest money on deposit in
the Fund in the same manner as prescribed for investment of other town money.
   (D)   Distributions from Fund. Distributions from the Fund must be approved
by the Town Council at a properly noticed public meeting.
   (E)   Termination of Fund. The Town Council may terminate the Fund at a
properly noticed public meeting and direct the Clerk-Treasurer to transfer any
money remaining in the Fund to the General Fund and the Clerk-Treasurer may
make the transfer without any further authorization.
(Ord. 2012-3-1, passed 4-12-12)
§ 34.24 SIGN FUND.
   (A)   There is created a non-reverting donation fund (the “Sign Fund”) for
the purposes of collecting and depositing donations for the beautification of
the town and the creation and erecting a new sign.
   (B)   The funds in the newly-created donation Fund shall be utilized solely
on the creation and erecting of a new sign for the town and other
beautification projects approved by the Council.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 2-12-18)
§ 34.25 4TH OF JULY DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is created a non-reverting donation fund (the “4th of July
Donation Fund”) for the purposes of collecting and depositing donations for the
4th of July celebration of the town.
   (B)   The funds in the newly-created donation Fund shall be utilized solely
for the 4th of July celebration for the town.
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 5-14-18)
§ 34.26 STORMWATER PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is established, pursuant to IC 36-1-8-3, the Town of Sheridan
Stormwater Utility Petty Cash Fund.
   (B)   The custodian of the Petty Cash Fund shall use it to pay small or
emergency items of operating expense. A receipt shall be taken for each
expenditure made from the Fund.
   (C)   The custodian of the Petty Cash Fund shall comply with all laws and
regulations in the maintenance, usage and reporting of the Petty Cash Fund.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the Petty Cash Fund.
   (E)   The Petty Cash Fund shall be funded with $80 to be taken from the
Stormwater Utility.
   (F)   Upon a change in custodian or if the Fund is no longer needed, the
entire balance shall be returned to the Stormwater Utility.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-10-20)
§ 34.27 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT), including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds as it relates to the process of paying claims/invoices and transfers to
and from investment accounts.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
   (D)   Compliance. The town shall comply with all other requirements for the
payment of claims by political subdivisions.
(Res. 2021-02, passed 3-8-21)
§ 34.28 ARP FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Sheridan, Hamilton County, Indiana,
recognizes that a need now exists for the establishment of the ARP Coronavirus
Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund (Fund 176), pursuant to IC 5-11.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Sheridan hereby establishes the ARP
Grant Fund with the understanding funds not used by December 31, 2024 will
revert back to the issuing authority.
   (C)   The sources of funding for the newly established fund will include
monies allocated to the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA)
and/or any subsequent deposit of funds which could or might be directed by
state and federal agencies to said Fund. The monies within this Fund shall be
used for eligible purposes of the ARPA.
   (D)   Funds receipted into this Fund will require an additional
appropriation (Town Council) approval, and any expense must adhere to eligible
purposes as detailed in § 603(c) of ARP as established in 2021 and to such
amendments in said § 603(c) which could be forthcoming. The Clerk-Treasurer
will also maintain detailed accounting records of the fund to provide for
future audits of the ARP Fund.
   (E)   Management of the Fund shall be completed in adherence to processes
and accounting procedures as detailed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts
(SBOA) in State Examiner Directive 2021-1 and subsequent Memorandum dated March
18, 2021, and in accordance with place accounting procedures as approved
through the SBOA and any and all subsequent directives through the SBOA.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.29 EMS EDUCATION FUND.
   In addition to the four existing funds for the Fire Department, there shall
be a new ambulance revenue fund called EMS Education.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-7-23)
§ 34.29.1 LIGHTING PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund. The town hereby creates and establishes a fund to be
known as the "Sheridan Lighting Project Fund.”
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The sole purpose of the Sheridan Lighting Project
Fund is to receive, hold, and use funds to off-set future expenses on lighting-
related projects.
   (C)   Responsibility for fund. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
all deposits into and, subject to Town Council approval, disbursements out of
the Sheridan Lighting Project Fund and shall keep records as to the
disbursements, reimbursements, and current balance in such fund at all times.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of donations and monies from any other
source approved for deposit by the Town Council in the Sheridan Lighting
Project Fund, the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately deposit all receipts into
the Sheridan Lighting Project Fund.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to only
disburse funds from the Sheridan Lighting Project Fund created hereunder upon
receipt of a claim filed and approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Limitations on the use of funds. The funds placed in the Sheridan
Lighting Project Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which
the Sheridan Lighting Project Fund was created.
(Ord. 2023-14-B, passed 9-19-23)
§ 34.29.2 PSAP LIT FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund. The Town of Sheridan hereby creates and establishes
a fund to be known as the "Sheridan PSAP LIT Fund."
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The sole purpose of the Sheridan PSAP LIT Fund is to
receive, hold, and use funds to pay for the expenses incurred by police and
fire with establishing/connecting PSAP in town.
   (C)   Responsibility for fund. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
all deposits into and, subject to Town Council approval, disbursements out of
the Sheridan PSAP LIT Fund and shall keep records as to the disbursements,
reimbursements, and current balance in such fund at all times.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of donations and monies from any other
source approved for deposit by the Town Council in the Sheridan PSAP LIT Fund,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately deposit all receipts into the Sheridan
PSAP LIT Fund.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to only
disburse funds from the Sheridan PSAP LIT Fund created hereunder upon receipt
of a claim filed and approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Limitations on the use of funds. The funds placed in the Sheridan PSAP
LIT Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which the Sheridan
PSAP LIT Fund was created.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-19-23)
§ 34.29.3 AED STATIONS FUND.
   (A)   Creation of fund. The town hereby creates and establishes a fund to be
known as the "Sheridan AED Stations Fund."
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The sole purpose of the Sheridan AED Stations Fund is
to receive, hold, and use funds to pay for the expenses incurred to purchase,
install, maintain, and monitor three new AED stations in town.
   (C)   Responsibility for fund. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
all deposits into and, subject to Town Council approval, disbursements out of
the Sheridan AED Stations Fund and shall keep records as to the disbursements,
reimbursements, and current balance in such fund at all times.
   (D)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of donations and monies from any other
source approved for deposit by the Town Council in the Sheridan AED Stations
Fund, the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately deposit all receipts into the
Sheridan AED Stations Fund.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to only
disburse funds from the Sheridan AED Stations Fund created hereunder upon
receipt of a claim filed and approved by the Town Council.
   (F)   Limitations on the use of funds. The funds placed in the Sheridan AED
Stations Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which the
Sheridan AED Stations Fund was created.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 9-19-23)
§ 34.29.4 REORGANIZED TOWN FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds established. The Council hereby establishes the following funds
for the reorganized town to accomplish the purposes set forth herein:
      (1)   Fund 1108 - Municipal Fire Fund.
      (2)   Fund 1135 - Police Fund.
      (3)   Fund 4410 - Fire Equipment Fund.
      (4)   Fund 8919 - Adams Township Payroll.
      (5)   Fund 9512 - Road Impact Fee Fund.
      (6)   Fund 9513 - Park Impact Fee Fund.
   (B)   Transfers directed. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to receive and deposit in the appropriate
fund the funds transferred to the town by the township. The Clerk-Treasurer is
further authorized, empowered and directed to transfer funds from the General
Fund of the town equal to the road impact fees previously collected by the town
from the General Fund to Fund 9512, and an amount equal to the park impact fees
previously collected by the town to Fund 9513, and to deposit future impact
fees collected to the designated fund.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-30-24)
PURCHASING
§ 34.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDDER. A person that submits an offer to a governmental body.
   CAPITAL EXPENDITURE. Money spent for purchasing, replacing or improving
business facilities, vehicles or equipment, but does not include money spent
for operating expenses.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids (see IC 5-22-2- 14).
   OFFER. A response to a solicitation. It includes bid, proposal and quote
(see IC 5-22-2-17).
   PUBLIC FUNDS.
      (1)   Money:
         (a)   Derived from the revenue sources of the governmental body; and
         (b)   Deposited into the general or a special fund of the governmental
body.
      (2)   The term does not include either of the following:
         (a)   Money received by a person under an authorized public-private
agreement under IC 5-23.
         (b)   Proceeds of bonds payable exclusively by a private entity (see
IC 5-22-2-23).
   PURCHASE. Includes buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire (see IC
5-22-2-24).
   PURCHASING AGENCY. The Town Council.
   PURCHASING AGENT. An individual authorized by a Purchasing Agency to act as
an agent for the Purchasing Agency in the administration of the duties of the
agency (see IC 5-22-2-26).
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS OR RFP. All documents, whether attached or
incorporated by reference, used for soliciting proposals (see IC 5- 22-2-28).
   SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not
involving the delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or
other items that are merely incidental to the required performance (see IC 5-
22-2-30).
   SOLICITATION. The procedure by which a governmental body invites persons to
submit an offer to enter into a contract with the governmental body for the
purchase or sale of supplies by the governmental body. It includes an
invitation to bid, a request for proposal and a request for quotes (see IC 5-
22-2-32).
   SUPPLIES. Any property except real property, and includes equipment, goods
and materials, unless any of those items are specifically excluded when the
term is used (see IC 5-22-2-38).
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.31 GENERAL PURCHASING POLICIES.
   The purchasing policy pertains to any purchase, contract, lease, or lease-
purchase in which the town participates. All contracts must be handled in
accordance with the purchasing policy (see §§
34.39,
34.40,
34.41). The Town Council reserves the right to deny any purchase.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.32 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   Notices of invitations to bid, requests for proposals and requests for
specifications shall be published in accordance with IC 5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.33 SENDING ELECTRONIC NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice or other material is sent by mail, including but not
limited to specifications, an invitation for bids, a request for proposals or a
request for specifications, the Purchasing Agent may also send the notice or
other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient and secure as mailing the information.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.34 RECEIVING OF OFFERS.
   (A)   Invitations for bids. Bids received in response to an invitation for
bids must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids (see IC 5-22-7-6).
   (B)   Request for proposals. Proposals received in response to a request for
proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing
bidders during the process of negotiation (see IC 5-22-9-4).
   (C)   Request for specifications. Proposals received in response to a
request for specifications may be opened as specified in the request for
specifications.
   (D)   Electronic receipt of offers. Electronic offers in response to an
invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications may be
received, if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The Purchasing Agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (E)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   A bidder may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at
which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid or by submitting a
revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened or until the time the bid has been
accepted, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Purchasing Agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town's best interest, the Purchasing
Agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.35 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchase of supplies, the total cost of which does not exceed $50,000,
may be made by either procedure defined in divisions (A) or (B) below. In
making a purchase under this policy, each Purchasing Agent shall act in
accordance with good business practices with the primary purpose of serving the
needs and best interests of the town, and shall not artificially divide
purchases so that they will become subject to this section or so that the
purchase will be less than $50,000. All purchases made pursuant to this section
shall be approved in advance by the Town Council President.
   (A)   If the purchase is between $10,000 and $50,000, the Purchasing Agent
shall request at least three quotes from persons known to deal in the types or
classes of supplies needed, by mailing, emailing or faxing a copy of the
specifications not less than seven days before the time set for receiving
quotes. The quotes shall be received by the Purchasing Agent at a designated
time and place. The Purchasing Agent shall, after adequate review, award the
contract to the lowest responsible and responsive quoter, may reject all
quotes, or if no valid quotes are received from any item, purchase it on the
open market, in conformance with Indiana statutes; or
   (B)   If the purchase is less than $10,000, the Purchasing Agent may
authorize the purchase of supplies on the open market without solicitation of
written quotations.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2014-
12-1, passed 10-11-14; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.36 DESIGNATED PURCHASING AGENTS: LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other requirements herein, each Purchasing Agent
shall comply with all applicable Indiana statutes and town ordinances with
respect to any purchase. A Purchasing Agent is not permitted to enter into
separate purchases for the purpose of avoiding the requirements and limitations
set forth herein.
   (B)   The persons holding the following positions, some of whom may not be
employees of the town, are hereby appointed as a Purchasing Agent for the
Purchasing Agency:
      (1)   Town Manager. The Town Manager of the town is hereby designated as
a Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to purchase services and
supplies, excluding vehicles and capital expenditures, for the town without
prior specific approval of the Purchasing Agency if the estimated amount of the
purchase is $30,000 or less and the money has been appropriated by Town
Council.
      (2)   Chief of Police. The Chief of the Town Police Department is hereby
designated as a Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to purchase
services and supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for
the Police Department without prior specific approval of the Purchasing Agency
if the estimated amount of the purchase is $5,000 or less, and is included in
the budget for the Police Department approved by Town Council.
      (3)   Fire Chief. The Chief of the Town of Sheridan Fire Department is
hereby designated as a Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to
purchase services and supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital
expenditures, for the Fire Department without prior specific approval of the
Purchasing Agency if the estimated amount of the purchase is $5,000 or less,
and is included in the budget for the Fire Department approved by the Town
Council.
      (4)   Street Superintendent. The Street Superintendent is hereby
designated as a Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to purchase
services and supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for
the Street Department without prior specific approval of the Purchasing Agency
if the estimated amount of the purchase is $5,000 or less, and is included in
the budget for the Street Department approved by the Town Council.
      (5)   Parks Director. The Parks Director is hereby designated as a
Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to purchase services and
supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for the Parks
Department without prior specific approval of the Purchasing Agency (i.e., Town
Council) if the estimated amount of the purchase is less than $5,000, and is
included in the budget for the Parks Department approved by Town Council.
      (6)   Planning Director. The Planning Director is hereby designated as a
Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority to purchase services and
supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for the Planning
and Zoning Department without prior specific approval of the Purchasing Agency
if the estimated amount of the purchase is $5,000 or less, and is included in
the budget for the Planning Department approved by Town Council.
      (7)   Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Sheridan,
Indiana is hereby designated as a Purchasing Agent and shall have the authority
to purchase services and supplies, excluding vehicles and other capital
expenditures, for the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer, and for other Departments
of the Purchasing Agency for whom the head of that department has not been
identified herein as a Purchasing Agent, without prior specific approval of the
Purchasing Agency if the estimated amount of the purchase is less than $5,000,
and is included in the budget for the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer approved by
Town Council or the approved budget of another department identified
hereinabove.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.37 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES.
   A capital expenditure shall not be made by a Purchasing Agent unless the
specific expenditure is reviewed and approved by the Town Council. The fact
that supplies or capital expenditures are included in a budget adopted and
approved by the Town Council does not constitute the review or approval
intended herein. Rather, before making the purchase, the specific purchase must
be submitted to the Town Council, and the Town Council will then decide whether
the expenditure should be approved, and the limitations, further actions and
procedures that are to be followed. Consideration of a request for approval may
be continued, tabled, held, in abeyance at the will of the Purchasing Agency.
The authority given by the Purchasing Agency, may be given by regular Council
action without the need of a resolution or ordinance, unless the law otherwise
requires.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.38 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   The Town Council as the Purchasing Agency may purchase services using any
procedure it considers to be appropriate and may, but is not required to, make
rules governing the purchase of services. Generally, in purchasing services,
the Town Council will give and expects its Purchasing Agents to give
consideration to the competence and qualifications of the service provider with
respect to the types of services to be performed, but this is a non-binding
guidance as there can be many different variables involved depending on the
nature of the service needed. The town and its authorized Purchasing Agents may
engage in negotiations for the compensation and extent of service.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.39 EMERGENCIES.
   In the event that a situation should arise that could not reasonably have
been foreseen and that threatens the public health, welfare, or safety and
requires immediate action, the Purchasing Agent, upon declaration of an
emergency, with the approval of the Town Council, may authorize the purchase of
supplies which may be required without receiving bids if at least two quotes
are invited from persons known to deal in supplies required, so long as the
total purchase price does not exceed $50,000. In the event the supplies needed
exceed $50,000, then the Purchasing Agent shall present the proposals to the
Town Council in the same manner as provided for emergency public work projects
under IC 36-1-12-9.
(Ord. 98-6-3, passed 6-30-98; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 2024-
07, passed 5-8-24)
§ 34.40 CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RELATIVES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Subject to §
31.11:
   (A)   The town shall comply with all requirements and restrictions
associated with IC 36-1-21.
   (B)   Contracting with relatives of elective officials.
      (1)   The Town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official (as
defined in IC 36-1-21-3); or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official; only if the requirements of this section are
satisfied and entering into or renewing the contract does not otherwise
constitute a violation of IC 35-44.1-1-3.
      (2)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described above if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contract or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the legislative body of the town and be
accepted by the Town Council in a public meeting of the town prior to final
action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with the State Board of Accounts and the Clerk of the
Hamilton County Circuit Court.
         (b)   The Department procuring the good or service must:
            1.    Make a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest responsive and responsible bid or offer; or
            2.   Make a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected.
      (3)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties of perjury, that the officer has not knowingly or
intentionally violated Indiana nepotism and contracting laws.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14)
Cross-references:
   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy, see §
31.11
§ 34.41 CONTRACTOR’S E-VERIFY AND UNAUTHORIZED ALIEN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As of July 1, 2011, Indiana enacted a law which affects Indiana
businesses, particularly those doing business with local government.
   (B)   Required contractor affirmation.
      (1)   Contractors will need to affirmatively represent in their
agreements with the town that the contractor has enrolled in, and verified the
work eligibility status of, all newly hired employees through the E-Verify
Program.
      (2)   However, a contractor is not required to verify the work
eligibility status of all newly hired employees of the contractor through the
E-Verify Program if the E-Verify Program no longer exists and contractor signs
an affidavit affirming that the contractor does not knowingly employ an
unauthorized alien.
   (C)   Contractor/subcontractor violation; town’s 30-day notice requirement.
      (1)   Contractor and its subcontractor(s) may not knowingly employ or
contract with an unauthorized alien; or retain an employee or contract with a
person that the contractor or its subcontractor subsequently learns is an
unauthorized alien.
      (2)   If a contractor violates this requirement, the town shall require
in writing that the contractor remedy the violation not later than 30 days
after the date the town notifies the contractor of the violation.
      (3)   There is a rebuttable presumption that a contractor did not
knowingly employ an unauthorized alien if the contractor verified the work
eligibility of the employee through the E-Verify Program.
   (D)   Town’s requirement to terminate contractor’s agreement.
      (1)   If a contractor fails to remedy the violation within the 30-day
period, the town shall terminate the agreement with contractor for breach.
      (2)   However, if the town determines that terminating the agreement
would be detrimental to the public interest or public property, the town may
allow the agreement to remain in effect until the town procures a replacement
contractor.
   (E)   Liable for town’s damages and attorney fees. If the town terminates
the agreement, the contractor shall be liable to the town for any and all
actual damages incurred, including, but not limited to, attorneys’ fees.
   (F)   Contractor’s subcontractor requirements.
      (1)   Contractor’s subcontractor(s) shall certify to the contractor in a
manner consistent with federal law that the contractor’s subcontractor(s), at
the time of certification, does not knowingly employ or contract with an
authorized alien; and has enrolled and is participating in the E-Verify
Program.
      (2)   Contractor shall maintain in its files a certification of each of
its subcontractor(s) throughout the duration of the term of the agreement with
the town and the term of contractor’s subcontract agreement with its
subcontractor(s).
   (G)   Town’s termination of the agreement not a breach. Termination of the
agreement for violation of this requirement may not be considered by the
contractor or its subcontractor(s) as a breach of contract by the town.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14)
§ 34.42 CONTRACTOR’S ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No investment in Iran. As required by IC 5-22-16.5-13, a contractor
will need to affirm in writing that the contractor is not engaged in investment
activities in Iran.
   (B)   IRS Form W-9. Contractor doing business with the town must file a
completed IRS Form W-9 (Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and
Certification) with the Clerk-Treasurer. The town shall not make payment to any
contractor who does not have a completed IRS Form W-9 on file with the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 4-14-14)
Editor’s note:
   IC 5-22-16.5 was repealed by P.L.233-2015, Sec.13.
MATERIALITY POLICY; REPORTING MATERIAL ITEM IRREGULARITIES
§ 34.50 ERRONEOUS OR IRREGULAR VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES OR THEFTS.
   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of town
funds or property, or funds or property the town holds in trust, shall be
promptly reported to the direct supervisor of the employee who identifies the
issue, and, as deemed appropriate, further reported to the next-higher
supervisor until, when appropriate, reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or their
designee.
(Ord. 2016-4-1, passed 4-14-16)
§ 34.51 REPORTING OF CASH IRREGULARITIES TO OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE OF TOWN
COUNCIL.
   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report to the Oversight
Committee of the Town Council any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of $500 except for inadvertent clerical
errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the
town.
(Ord. 2016-4-1, passed 4-14-16)
§ 34.52 REPORTING OF NON-CASH IRREGULARITIES TO OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE OF TOWN
COUNCIL.
   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly to the
Oversight Committee of the Town Council any erroneous or irregular variances,
losses, shortages, or thefts of noncash items in excess of $500 estimated
market value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or
misplacements that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to
the town, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
(Ord. 2016-4-1, passed 4-14-16)
§ 34.53 REPORTING OF CASH IRREGULARITIES TO STATE BOARD OF ACCOUNTS.
   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report to the State Board of
Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
cash in excess of $500, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are
identified timely and corrected promptly with no loss to the town.
(Ord. 2016-4-1, passed 4-14-16)
§ 34.54 REPORTING OF NON-CASH IRREGULARITIES TO STATE BOARD OF ACCOUNTS.
   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of non-cash items in excess of $500 estimated market value, except for
those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are
identified timely and corrected promptly with no loss to the town, and except
for losses from genuine accidents.
(Ord. 2016-4-1, passed 4-14-16)
INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY
§ 34.60 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY ADOPTED.
   The internal control standards defined by the State Board of Accounts
pursuant to IC 5-11-1-27(e), as hereafter may be amended from time-to-time, are
hereby adopted by the Council as the internal control standards of the town.
(Ord. 2016-8-1, passed 8-25-16)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 34.70 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The Town of Sheridan adopted this capital asset policy effective April 26,
2021, in order to establish and maintain accountability for capital assets
owned by the Town of Sheridan.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.71 DEFINITIONS OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   Capital assets include: land, easements, rights-of-way, land improvements,
buildings, building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and
equipment, vehicles, infrastructure, works of art and monuments with a useful
life of more than one year (including acquisitions by lease-purchase agreements
and donated items) with an original cost or estimated value of $5,000 or more.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.72 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   Capital assets should be recorded at actual cost, if known. If the original
cost is not known, an estimate should be made of the assets original cost. This
valuation should be of the asset's original or estimated original cost, not the
current replacement cost of the asset. Normally the cost recorded is the
purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also included is any
other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the asset in its
intended location and intended use that can be directly related to the asset.
Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market value on
the date donated or acquired.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.73 ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (A)   Land, easements and rights-of-way. Specified land, easements, rights-
of-way, lots, parcels, or acreage owned by the town or its various departments,
boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of acquisition.
   (B)   Improvements other than buildings. Examples of town assets in this
category are walks, parking areas and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools,
fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment, services,
or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and fixtures within
the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, sprinkler systems, alarm systems, sound systems, and
surveillance systems, passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in
casework, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed
equipment are included with the building, if owned. Communications antennas
and/or towers are not included as buildings. These are parts of the equipment
units that they serve.
   (D)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the capital asset policy not previously classified.
Included within this category are office mechanical equipment, office
furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment,
communication equipment, Police, Fire, Sanitation and Park Department
equipment, laboratory equipment, dogs, horses, vehicles, road equipment,
aircraft, emergency equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil
defense equipment, data processing equipment, and zoo wildlife. All supplies
are excluded.
   (E)   Infrastructure. Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets
that normally can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than
most capital assets and are normally stationary in nature. Examples include
roads, bridges, sidewalks, streetlights, traffic signals, street signs,
drainage systems, and water systems. Infrastructure assets can include
structures directly related to the infrastructure. Examples would include rest
area facilities and road maintenance structures such a shops and garages
associated with a highway system, and water pumping buildings associated with
water systems.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.74 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction, or disposed
of without prior approval of the appropriate department head. A capital asset
notification form should be sent to the Clerk-Treasurer in all cases. Invoices
for new purchases will not be paid unless this form is attached. Deletions for
any reason must be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designee.
   (B)   Transfers are defined as any movement of an asset by virtue of change
in location, either by account, department, building, floor, or room. If an
asset is stolen, the department head should ensure that a police report is
promptly filed and that the police report be forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer
along with the capital asset notification form.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
§ 34.75 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of capital assets will be conducted by each department
as near as practical to year-end. The Clerk-Treasurer will provide a list of
the inventory on file which will be sent to each department before each year-
end. The department heads will then compare physical observations of assets to
the listing noting whether the assets exist, the location if not apparent
otherwise, and other relevant factors. If the condition of an asset has
deteriorated to the point its useful life has been impaired, that fact should
be noted. Assets which are observed during the physical inventory which are not
on the inventory list should be noted. Omission of assets included on the
inventory list should also be noted, and the reasons for such omissions should
be documented to the extent possible. Department heads will be accountable for
the capital asset inventory charged to their department. The physical inventory
sheet and related documentation will be forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer who
will compare the results of the physical inventory to the capital asset records
and make necessary adjustments to the capital assets.
(Res. 2021-04, passed 4-26-21)
FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
§ 34.85 BAD DEBT WRITE-OFF.
   (A)   Once the Town Council approves the uncollectible list, the Clerk-
Treasurer and/or Utility Clerk will make appropriate entries to write off the
uncollectible receivable by using the direct write-off method. The direct
write-off method results in the write-off of a utility bill directly to
accounts receivable when deemed to be uncollectible.
   (B)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having an
uncollectible balance in the past. Any future transactions for those account
holders will be denied until the uncollectible balance is paid in full.
However, this provision will not apply if the debt is fully discharged in
bankruptcy.
(Res. 2024-07, passed 6-4-24)
CHAPTER 35: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   General policy
Administration and Enforcement
   
35.10   Enforcement by Town Marshal
   
35.11   Enforcement by other officials, boards or commissions
Citations; Fines; Records
   
35.20   Procedure for issuance of citation
   
35.21   Issuance and service by mail
   
35.22   Notice to appear; refusal to sign; security for release
   
35.23   Conditional citation or offense with conditional penalties
   
35.24   Statute of limitations on issuance of citation
   
35.25   Warning
   
35.26   Form of citation; traffic offense; other offense
   
35.27   Administrative procedure on issuance of citation
   
35.28   Procedure for fixing fine
   
35.29   Compromise and settlement without trial
   
35.30   Filing and prosecution of violation complaint
   
35.31   Appearance for defendant and town
   
35.32   Payment of fines, other costs; prosecution fee
   
35.33   Records of conviction
   
35.34   Further action
   
35.35   Allocation and deposit of fines, fees and costs
   
35.36   Further rules and procedures for enforcement
Town Court
   
35.50   Established
   
35.51   Appointment and election of judge; term and bond
   
35.52   Powers and duties of judge
   
35.53   Compensation of judge
   
35.54   Court jurisdiction
   
35.55   Court sessions
   
35.56   Court seal
   
35.57   Town Court officers
   
35.58   Service of process
   
35.59   Books, dockets, papers, and printed blanks
   
35.60   Judgments, orders and proceedings
   
35.61   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   When any provision of this code requires or mandates any person to perform
some act or bring about or maintain some circumstances or state of affairs or
prohibits, restrains or regulates the behavior of any person or the commission
of any act or the bringing about or maintaining of any circumstance or state of
affairs on the part of any person and a penalty or fine or some other procedure
to compel compliance with the provision is prescribed in this code of
ordinances, the provision shall be considered an enforcement provision. Unless
some different procedure is expressly set forth and prescribed by the
particular article, chapter or section of this code containing the enforcement
provision, the enforcement of any such provision shall be administered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
('85 Code, § 1-3-1)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.10 ENFORCEMENT BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   Unless some other official board, commission or similar entity is
expressly designated as the primary enforcement officer or authority
responsible for the administration and enforcement of a particular enforcement
provision, it is the duty of the Town Marshal, acting personally or through his
or her lawful deputies, to take all steps necessary for the effective
enforcement and bringing about of compliance with all enforcement provisions.
   (B)   When the Town Marshal, based upon his or her personal vigilance or
upon the information or complaint of any other official or any citizen, has
probable cause to believe a violation or failure to comply with any enforcement
provision has occurred or is occurring, he or she shall, with due diligence,
investigate the matter, ascertain the facts and collect the testimony,
information or other evidence as in his or her judgement may be necessary to
support the facts. If, incident upon the investigation, the Town Marshal
determines with a degree of certainty sustained by a preponderance of the
evidence that some known person has violated or failed to comply with, or is
violating or failing to comply with any enforcement provision, he or she shall
issue and serve upon the alleged offender, in person or by mail if so provided,
a citation for the violation, comprising a complaint and summons to appear and
answer to the charge of the violation as hereafter prescribed in this chapter,
or else shall initiate or cause to be initiated other enforcement procedures as
may be alternatively prescribed in the event of a violation of the particular
enforcement provision.
('85 Code, § 1-3-2)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Town Marshal, see §
33.16
§ 35.11 ENFORCEMENT BY OTHER OFFICIALS, BOARDS OF COMMISSIONS.
   When, in this code of ordinances, any official, board, commission or similar
entity is given responsibility instead of or concurrent with that of the Town
Marshal for the administration and enforcement of any enforcement provision,
he, she or they shall perform the same duties and functions with respect with
respect to the enforcement of the provision as are prescribed for the Town
Marshal under §
35.10 and the term, “enforcement officer” shall mean and include other
officials, boards, commissions or similar entities or their properly authorized
agents.
('85 Code, § 1-3-3)
CITATIONS; FINES; RECORDS
§ 35.20 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   (A)   When an enforcement officer issues a citation for violation of any
enforcement provision, the enforcement officer may, pursuant to IC 34-28-5-3,
detain the person for a sufficient time to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation.
      (2)   Obtain the person's name, address and date of birth or driver's
license, if in his or her possession, for the purposes of identification.
      (3)   Allow the person to execute a notice to appear in court to answer
the charges of the violation, except as provided in §
35.23.
   (B)   If the person being charged refuses to provide the information or
driver's license as required by division (A)(2) above, the enforcement officer
shall inform the person that the refusal constitutes a violation of state law
and commits a Class C misdemeanor pursuant to IC 34-28-5-3.5 and may subject
the person to arrest and further penalties as may be provided for the offense.
If the person continues to refuse to provide the information or driver's
license, the enforcement officer, if a duly constituted police officer, may
immediately arrest the person on a charge of having committed a Class C
misdemeanor. If the enforcement officer is not a duly constituted police
officer authorized to exercise power of arrest, he or she shall continue to
detain the person for the period of time as is reasonably necessary to summon
the duly constituted police officer, who shall arrest the person on a charge of
having committed a Class C misdemeanor.
   (C)   If the person being charged with a violation is a corporation,
partnership, company or other organization other than a natural person, the
enforcement officer shall serve the citation upon the resident agent for a
service of process, a director, principal or principal officer of the
corporation, company or other organization having the power and authority under
the organization documents, charter or rules of the corporation, company or
other organization to accept process and execute a notice to appear on behalf
of the organization. If the offense charged is one arising out of the condition
or use of any real or personal property for which the person owning or holding
the property is made liable and the property is owned or held by more than one
person in joint tenancy or partnership, it shall be sufficient to issue and
serve the citation on any one of the joint tenants or partners.
   (D)   If the person being charged with a violation is a minor child and, in
the opinion, of the enforcement officer, the child is of such young age or
immature character so as not to fully understand the significance of the
citation and notice to appear and his or her responsibilities and obligations
thereunder, the enforcement officer shall ascertain the name and address of a
parent or legal guardian of the child and shall serve the citation upon and
cause the parent or legal guardian to execute the notice to appear on behalf of
the child.
('85 Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 35.21 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE BY MAIL.
   When it is found by an enforcement officer that any identifiable person has
violated or is violating any enforcement provision, or is liable and
accountable for that violation, but the person cannot be conveniently
confronted and served in person with a citation, as provided in §
35.20, it is permissible for the enforcement officer to issue the citation for
violation and cause it to be served by registered or certified mail with return
receipt of delivery to the last known address of the alleged offender. When a
citation is served in this manner, the person upon whom it is served is not
required to execute a notice to appear, nor to deposit any security as
guarantee for appearance as would or might otherwise be required pursuant to §
35.22, but, in addition to any other information and notices to be included
with the citation as hereafter provided, a citation served by mail shall
include a statement that failure to appear in court at the time and place
indicated to answer the charge or to compromise and settle the complaint within
the allotted time may subject the offender to further proceeding and additional
costs.
('85 Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 35.22 NOTICE TO APPEAR; REFUSAL TO SIGN; SECURITY FOR RELEASE.
   Any person who is a resident of this state and is detained by an enforcement
officer for the purpose of issuing and serving a citation for violation of an
enforcement provision, and who provides the enforcement officer with a
satisfactory identification in accordance with §
35.20, and executes a signed notice to appear in court in accordance with §
35.20 shall thereupon be released from the detention without other bond or
security for appearance. However, if the person is not a resident of the state
and/or refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, the following additional
procedures and requirements apply before the enforcement officer releases the
person from detention, as the appropriate case may be:
   (A)   If the person is a resident of Indiana and the offense charged is
violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense or
a non-moving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to
the Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, and the person refuses to sign the
notice to appear, the enforcement officer, before releasing the person, shall
inform him or her that notwithstanding his or her refusal to sign the notice,
he or she is obligated law to appear at the time and place indicated in the
citation or to previously compromise and settle the complaint in the manner
hereafter provided and that failure to do so will result in his or her arrest
on warrant of the court and/or suspension of his or her driver's license in
accordance with IC 9-30-3-8(a) and IC 9-30-3-8(c), respectively.
   (B)   If the person is a non-resident of the state and the offense charged
is violation of an enforcement provision constituting a moving traffic offense
or a non-moving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to
the Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer shall,
before releasing the person:
      (1)   Require the person to deposit a security for appearance of the type
described by IC 9-30-2-5(b)(1) or (b)(2), and in the manner prescribed by IC 9-
30-2-5(c), unless the person is exempt from the requirement under IC 9-28-2;
and
      (2)   If the person refuses to sign a notice to appear, the enforcement
officer also shall inform the person that notwithstanding his or her refusal to
sign the notice, he or she is obliged by law to appear at the time and place
indicated in the citation or to previously compromise and settle the complaint
in the manner hereafter provided, and failure to do so will result not only in
the forfeiture of the security provided but also will cause the court to notify
the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles of his or her failure to appear, which will
result in the suspension of driving privileges in Indiana and a copy of the
order of suspension will also be sent to the equivalent authority of the
person's home state in accordance with IC 9-30-3-8(b) and (c), or else:
      (3)   The enforcement officer shall accompany the offender to the nearest
U.S. Postal Service receptacle to see that the offender mails to the Clerk of
the Hamilton County Court:
         (a)   A copy of the citation with a signed admission of guilt.
         (b)   A check or money order in the amount of fine requested, as
determined pursuant to §
35.28, plus court costs;
thus comprising and settling the complaint in accordance with §
35.29(B)
   (C)   If the person is a non-resident of Indiana or is a resident of Indiana
but refuses to sign a notice to appear in court, and the offense charged is of
a kind other than a moving traffic offense required to be reported to the state
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the enforcement officer shall, before releasing
the person, accompany the person to the office of the town Clerk-Treasurer,
where the person shall be released upon either:
      (1)   Depositing with the Clerk-Treasurer a security as guarantee for
appearance, that security being a deposit of cash, traveler's checks or other
valuable securities or property acceptable to the Clerk- Treasurer, and at
least equal in value to the amount of fine requested in the complaint,
exclusive of costs which could be imposed by the court where the person to
appear and be convicted, for which security the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide
the person with a proper receipt and shall make an understanding and agreement
with the person that should he or she fail to appear to answer the charge or
fail to compromise and settle the complaint before the appearance, as hereafter
provided, the security thus deposited with be forfeited in favor of the town
and in settlement of the complaint, but will be fully refunded or restored to
the person if he or she does appear at the place and time prescribed or does
previously compromise and settle the complaint; or
      (2)   Compromising and settling the complaint at the time in the manner
provided by §
35.29(A). However, if the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is not open for
business at the time the citation is served, the enforcement officer, in lieu
of the above procedure, shall accompany the person to the nearest United States
Postal Service receptacle and shall supply the person with a stamped envelope
addressed to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall ascertain that the
person deposits therein and mails either a security for appearance and a signed
security deposit agreement of the type described in division (1) above, or else
his or her copy of the citation and an amount of payment necessary to
compromise and settle the complaint in accordance with §
35.29(A) and the enforcement officer shall thereupon release the person from
any further detention.
('85 Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 35.23 CONDITIONAL CITATION OR OFFENSE WITH CONDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, when any enforcement
provision of this code stipulates that:
      (1)   A person cited for violation of the enforcement provision is
allowed some definite period of time to correct the violation and comply with
the enforcement provision before being subject to any penalty; or
      (2)   The person cited for the violation is entitled to an administrative
appeal or investigatory hearing before any administrative officer, board or
similar entity to determine whether the citation is valid and justified;
then the citation or a written notice attached thereto shall, as the case may
be, state the period of time permitted for compliance or the procedure to be
followed to exercise the right to the administrative appeal or investigatory
hearing and the person shall not be required to execute a notice to appear in
court, nor shall the complaint be filed with the Clerk of the Court, nor shall
the time period permitted for compromise and settlement of the complaint under
§
35.29(A) commence until, as appropriate:
      (1)   The time period allowed for compliance has elapsed and it is found
that the person has not complied; or
      (2)   The person has waived the right to administrative appeal or
investigatory hearing, or has failed to invoke and exercise that right within
any applicable time period; or
      (3)   The administrative appeal proceeding or investigatory hearing has
been conducted and has affirmed the citation.
('85 Code, § 1-3-7)
§ 35.24 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   Pursuant to IC 34-28-5-1(c)(2), a citation may not be issued if one year has
elapsed, in cases of a violation occurring before September 1, 1985, nor if two
years have elapsed in case of a violation occurring on or after September 1,
1985.
('85 Code, § 1-3-9)
§ 35.25 WARNING.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
35.10, if any enforcement officer has cause to believe that a person has
violated or is violating an enforcement provision of this code of ordinances,
but also has cause to believe that the person is of law-abiding character and
has not knowingly, wantonly or repeatedly violated the provision and the
violation is a minor violation not posing imminent jeopardy to life, limb,
property or the public welfare, the enforcement officer, at his or her
discretion, may issue a warning instead of an official citation.
   (A)   The warning shall inform the person that they are in violation of an
enforcement provision and the enforcement officer shall order the person to
forthwith cease or correct the violation.
   (B)   At the discretion of the enforcement officer, the warning may be
either an informal verbal warning or a formal written warning. A formal written
warning shall be issued on the same form ordinarily used for an official
citation of the offense committed, but all copies thereof shall be clearly
marked, “Warning Only”.
   (C)   Issuance of a warning shall not require the offender to pay any fine
or compromise and settlement, nor to appear in court. However, if a formal
written warning is issued, a copy shall in no way bar the subsequent issuance
of an official citation for the same offense if it should later be determined
that the offender in fact did knowingly or wantonly violate the enforcement
provision, is a repeat offender or has failed to comply with the warning order.
('85 Code, § 1-3-8)
§ 35.26 FORM OF CITATION; TRAFFIC OFFENSE; OTHER OFFENSE.
   The form of citation and summons used for an ordinance violation shall be in
accordance with this section, as appropriate to the nature of the violation:
   (A)   Traffic offenses. In all cases where a citation is issued and served
for the violation of an ordinance constituting a moving traffic offense or a
non-moving traffic offense required by law or regulation to be reported to the
Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the form of complaint and summons
prescribed by IC 9-30-3-6(b) shall be used for the purpose of issuing the
citation; provided, the enforcement officer shall clearly indicate in the space
provided on the form that the violation charged is a violation of a town
ordinance and not of state law and provided further that in that section of the
form dealing with “Court Action and Other Orders” and in that subsection
thereof concerning the finding of the court, the enforcement officer shall
delete the word, “state” and substitute the word, “town” so the form shall read
“Judgement for the town” rather than “Judgement for the state” in the event the
form has not been already so modified and preprinted.
   (B)   In all other cases where a citation is issued and served for violation
of an enforcement provision of this code of ordinances, and in accordance with
IC 34-28-5-1(e), the form of complaint and summons prescribed by IC 9-30-3-6(b)
may be used for the purpose of issuing the citation, subject to the same
stipulations and modifications as when the form is used for a traffic offense
as described above. However, if the traffic citation form is not deemed
suitable and convenient for use with respect to any other enforcement
provision, the chief officer of the department or other agency responsible for
enforcement may prescribe an alternative form of complaint and summons to be
used for issuing the citation; provided, any such alternative form of complaint
and summons shall consist of at least four copies as required for the
administration of §
35.27 and that the form shall be examined and approved by the Town Attorney,
who shall ascertain that it is of proper legal form and satisfies all
necessities for judicial processing in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the court for the filing of ordinance violation complaints and
that it meets all administrative requirements as stipulated in this chapter or
in the particular enforcement provision to which it pertains.
('85 Code, § 1-3-10)
§ 35.27 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ON ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   When a citation is issued for violation of any enforcement provision of this
code, the enforcement officer issuing the citation shall provide one copy
thereof to the offender, including or accompanied by the notices as prescribed
in §
35.23 and §
35.29, as appropriate; shall retain one copy for the records of his or her own
department or agency and as soon after issuance as possible shall deliver all
other copies to the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of administering the
further provisions of this section. The Clerk-Treasurer shall examine each such
citation so received and shall determine from the records available whether or
not the person charged with the violation has previously been convicted of or
has admitted guilt to a violation of the same provision or of a substantially
similar provision of any ordinance in effect prior to the implementation of
this code of ordinances, and shall note this information on the citation for
the information of the court and shall accordingly fix or adjust, as may be
necessary, the amount of fine to be requested in the complaint pursuant to IC
34-28-5-4 and in accordance with §
35.28, if that amount has not been previously determined accurately and entered
in the citation by the enforcement officer issuing the same. The amount of fine
so determined shall be entered on the complaint form by the enforcement officer
or by the Clerk-Treasurer in the space provided, if any, or else shall be
clearly noted and firmly attached to the copies of the complaint to be filed
with the court and kept by the Clerk Treasurer. Thereupon:
   (A)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of any
enforcement provision other than a moving traffic offense or a non-moving
traffic offense required by a law or regulation to be reported to the Indiana
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the Clerk-Treasurer shall retain the citation
for the period of time allowed for the offender to compromise and settle the
complaint as provided by §
35.29(A) and if the complaint is not compromised and settled within that period
of time, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, as soon as possible thereafter, tender the
complaint for prosecution in accordance with §
35.30; or
   (B)   If the violation cited in the complaint is a violation of an
enforcement provision constituting a moving or non-moving traffic offense
required by law to be reported to the Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith tender the complaint for filing with the
court in accordance with §
35.30.
('85 Code, § 1-3-11)
§ 35.28 PROCEDURE FOR FIXING FINE.
   (A)   When an enforcement officer issues and serves a citation, other than a
warning citation, for the violation of any enforcement provision, he or she
shall, if practicable, determine from the records available, the status of the
person under this section and shall determine and fix a fine to be requested in
accordance with the provisions of this section and shall enter the amount of
that fine on the copy of the citation given the offender or on a written
attachment thereto and also on all other copies of the citation. However, if it
is not practicable for the enforcement officer to check the available records
at the time, or if doing so would require detaining the person cited for an
unreasonable period of time, the enforcement officer may inquire of the person
being cited if eh or she has previously been convicted or has admitted guilt to
the same offense being charged, exclusive of similar offenses committed in
other jurisdictions, and the enforcement officer may rely on the response of
the person for the purpose of this section until the time as the available
records can be consulted by the enforcement officer or by the Clerk-Treasurer
pursuant to §
35.27; however, should it subsequently prove that the person has given the
enforcement officer inaccurate information as to his or her previous
convictions or admissions of guilt, the enforcement officer or the Clerk-
Treasurer shall adjust the fine requested to accord with the provisions of this
section and the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the offender written notice of
that adjustment. The amount of fine to be requested in the complaint shall be
determined in the following manner:
      (1)   If any provision of this code of ordinances establishes a fixed
penalty for violation of the provision or of a related provision, then the
amount of fine requested in the complaint shall be the fixed amount so
specified; however, if no fixed amount is specified but a minimum and maximum
penalty are provided, then,
      (2)   If the violation is a first offense against the provision, the fine
requested in the complaint shall be the minimum penalty so established or $1,
whichever is greater;
      (3)   If the violation is a second offense in the violation of the same
provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the minimum
penalty so established plus 50% of the difference between the maximum penalty
provided for violation of the provision and the minimum penalty.
      (4)   If the violation is a third or subsequent offense in violation of
the same provision, then the fine requested in the complaint shall be the
maximum penalty provided for violation of the provision.
   (B)   Should any person commit two or more separate offenses against nay one
enforcement provision by virtue of any singular and substantially simultaneous
act or circumstances, and that singular and simultaneous act or circumstance is
the person's first or second instance of committing an offense against the
particular provision, then each such separate offense shall be severally
treated as a first offense or as a second offense, as the case may be, for the
purpose of fixing a requested fine for each offense in accordance with this
section, regardless of the other offenses concurrently committed.
('85 Code, § 1-3-12)
§ 35.29 COMPROMISE AND SETTLEMENT WITHOUT TRIAL.
   Any person who has been cited for violation of any enforcement provision of
this code, whether or not having signed a notice to appear in court, shall have
a right to compromise and settle the complaint without trial or appearance in
court in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   If the offense cited is other than a moving or non-moving traffic
offense of the kind described in §
35.27(A) the offender may compromise and settle the complaint in accordance
with the provisions of the following notice, which shall be imprinted on or
attached to the copy of the citation provided to the person cited:
   You have a right to appear in court at the place and time indicated, either
in person or by attorney, to answer and be tried in the cause of the violation
cited in the complaint and summons. However, if you do not wish to appear in
court and be tried, you may settle the complaint either by delivering during
regular business hours or by mailing your copy of the citation and payment of
the stipulated fine to: Office of the Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Sheridan, Town
Hall, 508 Main Street, Sheridan, Indiana, 46069. The amount of fine owning
depends on the nature of the violation and may depend on whether or not you
have previously been convicted or have admitted guilt to the same offense, and
is determined in accordance with §
35.28 of the town's code or ordinances, a copy of which is available for public
inspection at the office of the Clerk- Treasurer. Payment of the fine must be
received within five days, exclusive of weekends and legal holidays, following
the date of issuance and service of the citation; after that time, the
complaint will have been filed with the Clerk of the Court for docketing and
trial. If paying in person, payment may be made in cash, traveler's checks,
money order or certified check; if paying by mail, please remit only a money
order or certified check payable to the town in the exact amount of the fine.
Settlement of the complaint and payment of the fine according to this procedure
constitutes a waiver of trial and an admission of guilt having the same effect
as an adverse judgement of a court; however, no fees or costs in addition to
the fine will be assessed, whereas if you choose to appear in court and are
convicted, substantial fees and court costs will be assessed by the court in
addition to the fine imposed. Settlement of the complaint in the manner also
discharges your obligation under any notice to appear in court which you may
have signed, and if you were required to deposit any security as bond for
appearance, that security will be returned to you.
   (B)   If the offense cited is a moving or non-moving traffic offense of the
kind described in §
35.27(B), the offender may compromise and settle the complaint in the manner
prescribed by IC 34-28-5-11 and the following notice and compromise execution
form or a substantially similar notice and form serving the same purpose as may
be prescribed by the court or other competent authority shall be imprinted on
or attached to the copy of the citation provided to the person cited:
   You have a right to appear in court at the place and time indicated to
answer and be tried in the cause of the traffic ordinance violation described
in the citation. Unless the court subsequently orders and notifies you to make
a personal appearance pursuant to IC 9-30-2-5(g), you may make the appearance
either in person or by attorney or, alternatively, if you do not wish to appear
in court and be tried you may, instead of that appearance and in accordance
with IC 34-28-5-11 settle the complaint any time prior to the date of the
scheduled court appearance by delivering or mailing your copy of the citation
and this notice, with a signed admission of guilt as provided below and as
required by law, accompanied by payment in the total amount of fine, fees and
costs owing as hereafter indicated to: Clerk of the Hamilton County Court,
Hamilton County Courthouse, Noblesville, Indiana, 46060. If paying in person,
payment may be made in cash, traveler's checks, money order or certified check;
if paying by mail, please send only a money order or certified check in the
exact amount of fine and fees owning; money orders or checks should be payable
to the Clerk of the Hamilton County Court. Please be advised that signature of
the admission of guilt and payment of the fine and costs constitutes a waiver
of trial and has the same effect as an adverse judgement of the court were you
to appear and be tried and that the Indiana Commissioner of Motor Vehicles and
the equivalent authority of the state in which your driver's license was issued
if you are not an Indiana resident, will be notified of your admission of guilt
to the violation. Settlement of the complaint in the manner set forth in this
notice discharges your obligation under any notice to appear in court which you
may have signed and if you have been required to deposit any security as bond
for appearance, that security will be returned to you.
   (C)   Statement of fine and costs form.
   STATEMENT OF FINE AND COSTS
         Town of Sheridan Traffic Citation No.                     .
   Name/address of person to whom issued
                                                                                                                    .
         Offense committed                                            .
         Fine (amount prescribed by ordinance $          
         State docket fee (IC 33-17-8-3(1))           
         County docket fee (IC 33-17-8-3-(2))           
         Municipal prosecutor's fee (IC 33-17-8-3-(2))           
         Motor vehicle fee (IC 4-14-1-18))           
         Judicial fee (IC 33-17-11-2(a)(2))           
         Total fine and costs owing           
   ADMISSION OF GUILT
      I, the undersigned, do hereby admit to have committed the offense
described and stipulated in the attached traffic citation:
                                                                                            
                              (Signature of full name)
   (D)   The Clerk of Court shall, every month, pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the
amount of fines and fees owning to the town and so collected by the Clerk, in
the same manner as other judgements of the court entered in favor of the town
for the violation of its ordinances, as stipulated by §
35.32 and by law.
('85 Code, § 1-3-13)
Editor’s notes:
   IC 4-14-1-18 was repealed by P.L. 1-1993, Sec. 18.
   IC 33-17 was repealed by P.L. 98-2004, Sec. 164.
§ 35.30 FILING AND PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION COMPLAINT.
   When a citation has been issued for violation of an enforcement provision of
this code and the violation is a traffic offense as described in §
35.27(B) or is some other kind of offense and the time period allowed for
compromise and settlement of the complaint, as provided by §
35.29(A) and §
35.23 has elapsed, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of the complaint
and summons to the Town Attorney, who shall file it in the name of the town
with the Clerk of the Hamilton County Court or other court of competent
jurisdiction and prosecute the complaint in accordance with IC 34-28-5-1(c) and
applicable rules of the court. However, the Town Attorney may prescribe a
different procedure for filing the complaint with respect to any class of
violation if he or she deems such an alternative procedure more suitable and
expedient. For the services and functions of the Town Attorney, as provided in
this section, the court, upon conviction of the offender, shall assess as a
part of the judgement in favor of the town and in addition to any fine imposed,
a municipal prosecutor's fee in the amount prescribed by IC 33-19-5-1. The
prosecutor's fee shall be assessed whether or not the Town Attorney actually
makes a personal appearance at the trial of the cause of the complaint.
('85 Code, § 1-3-14)
Editor’s note:
   IC 33-19-5-1 was repealed by P.L. 98-2004, Sec. 164.
§ 35.31 APPEARANCE FOR DEFENDANT AND TOWN.
   (A)   Unless the court, pursuant to IC 9-30-2-5(g) or other applicable law
orders otherwise, the defendant in the trial for violation of an enforcement
provision may appear in person or by an attorney, and an appearance by attorney
satisfies any notice to appear signed by the defendant. Appearance on behalf of
the town may be made by the Town Attorney personally, or with his or her
consent and approval, any of the following persons shall be competent to appear
for and represent the town:
      (1)   Another attorney retained by the Town Attorney for that purpose or
who is retained as counsel by any board, commission or similar authority
responsible for the enforcement of the enforcement provision;
      (2)   The enforcement officer originally issuing the citation for the
violation.
      (3)   The chief executive or other chief officer of the department or
other agency responsible for the enforcement;
      (4)   A member of the Town Council.
   (B)   If any person described in divisions (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) is
designated to appear for the town, the Town Attorney, as necessary, shall
advise the person on the procedures of the court and the evidence it will be
necessary to present in order to sustain the charge of the violation.
('85 Code, § 1-3-15)
§ 35.32 PAYMENT OF FINES, OTHER COSTS; PROSECUTION FEE.
   When a court enters a judgement in favor of the town in the trial of an
ordinance violation complaint, the court shall fine the violator in an amount
not exceeding the penalty requested in the complaint. However, the judge of the
court shall have discretion to impose a lesser fine than that requested if, in
the judgement of the court, there exist extenuating or mitigating circumstances
warranting a lesser penalty; but if the judgement is entered by the Clerk of
the Court upon waiver of trial and admission of guilt by the defendant, the
Clerk does not have discretion to impose a lesser penalty unless so ordered by
the judge. The court also shall tax and assess as part of the judgement in
favor of the town the municipal prosecutor's fee as prescribed by §
35.30 and by law, and any other costs incurred and stipulated by the town in
connection with the filing and prosecution of the complaint and which are
recoverable pursuant to any statute or ordinance. The Clerk of the court shall
regularly pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all fines, costs and that portion of the
municipal prosecutor's fees owing to the town and collected by the court on
judgement in favor of the town, such money to be deposited in accordance with §
35.35.
('85 Code, § 1-3-16)
§ 35.33 RECORDS OF CONVICTION.
   When a person is charged with the violation of an enforcement provision and
either compromises and settles the complaint pursuant to §
35.29, or is found guilty be a court in accordance with §
35.32, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make and keep a record of that compromise or
conviction, organized for reference by the name of the offender and according
to any other means of identification which the Clerk-Treasurer deems
dispensable for the purpose of administering §
35.28. The record constitutes presumptive evidence of guilt of any violation
whether or not the offender has made any admission to a violation for the
purposes of fixing a fine pursuant to §
35.28 and no such offender shall be permitted to plead for a lesser fine than
any subsequently requested on the advent of a repeat violation on the grounds
that he or she was not, in fact, guilty of any prior offense which he or she
has compromised or of which he or she has had judgement entered against him or
her by a court.
('85 Code, § § 1-3-17)
§ 35.34 FURTHER ACTION.
   (A)   The compromise and settlement of a complaint for the violation of any
enforcement provision of this code, pursuant to §
35.29, or an action upon the complaint initiated and prosecuted pursuant to §
35.30, and any fines, fees or costs imposed and collected in connection
therewith are in consequence of the penal violation of the respective
enforcement provision per se, and the compromise and settlement of any such
complaint or judgement of a court in favor of the town does not prevent the
town from initiating and pursuing any or all of the following further or
collateral civil actions:
      (1)   An action to recover costs incurred by the town to bring any
property or the use thereof into compliance with an enforcement provision
pursuant to IC 36-1-6-2;
      (2)   An action seeking a civil injunction against a violator to ensure
current or future enforcement of and compliance with any enforcement provision
pursuant to IC 36-1-6-4;
      (3)   An action to recover damages to town property or any other
pecuniary loss to the town arising out of the violation of any enforcement
provision;
      (4)   An action to recover stipulated costs incurred by the town in any
action described in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3), including but not
limited to attorney's fees and any filing fees paid by the town in any such
action.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney, if so instructed by the
Town Council, to initiate and prosecute any such further actions as the case
may warrant.
('85 Code, § 1-3-18)
§ 35.35 ALLOCATION AND DEPOSIT OF FINES, FEES AND COSTS.
   When the Clerk Treasurer, for violation of an enforcement provision,
receives payment of any fines, fees or costs pursuant to §
35.29, §
35.32 and §
35.34(A)(1) or (A)(2), or possesses on behalf of the town any forfeited
security deposits as undischarged bond for appearance pursuant to §
35.22(B)(1) or (C)(1) or receives payment of recovered damages or loss pursuant
to §
35.34(A)(3) and to the extent that any such payment does not escheat to an
insurance company which has previously made compensatory payment to the town,
the money or property so received shall be administered and allocated by the
Clerk- Treasurer in accordance with the following provisions of this section:
   (A)   In the case of money paid as fines for penal violations of any
enforcement provisions, the money shall be deposited in the General Fund unless
the particular enforcement provision stipulates that any fines be deposited in
some other designated fund.
   (B)   In the case of any forfeited security deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall record the complaint as having been compromised and settled upon taking
possession thereof and shall make disposition of the possessed security as
provided in this subsection:
      (1)   If the deposit has been made and forfeited pursuant to §
35.22, and,
         (a)   The security is a deposit of cash or a directly depositable cash
instrument such as a traveler's check or certified check, then the Clerk-
Treasurer shall allocate and deposit the possessed security as through it were
an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the same manner as provided in
division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact that the cash value of the
security deposit may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the
complaint; or if,
         (b)   The security deposit is a negotiable instrument such as a bond,
note or debenture, having a convertible cash value but which is not directly
depositable, the Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to convert the instrument or may
sell the instrument on the securities market for such price as it will bring,
and the net proceeds from the conversion or sale after deduction of any
applicable sales commissions or transaction fees shall be allocated and
deposited as though they were an ordinary payment of the fine owing, in the
same manner as provided in division (A) above, and notwithstanding the fact
that the net proceeds may exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the
complaint; provided further, that if the security is an investment instrument
of the kind which it is lawful for the town to own and hold as an investment of
public funds pursuant to IC 5-13-9 or any other law authorizing the investment
of public funds and the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine that it would be of
greater financial advantage and benefit to the town, the Clerk-Treasurer may
keep the security as an investment asset of the town instead of converting or
selling the security, and the principal amount thereof shall be allocated and
credited to the appropriate fund or funds to which a cash receipt would be
allocated and deposited pursuant to division (A) and the interest or other
earning therefrom shall be allocated and deposited in the fund or funds as
would ordinarily be the case for other town investments; or if,
         (c)   The security deposit is any other valuable personal or real
property, the Clerk- Treasurer shall provide for the same to be offered for
sale as surplus property of the town in accordance with the provisions of IC
36-1-11, and the net proceeds of the sale, after deduction of the costs of
conducting the sale shall be allocated and deposited as though they were an
ordinary payment of the fine, owing in the same manner as provided in division
(A) above, and notwithstanding the fact that the net proceeds of the sale may
exceed the amount of fine originally requested in the complaint; or
      (2)   [Reserved.]
   (C)   In the case of payment of an amount attributable to the town's portion
of the municipal prosecutor's fees owing and paid by the Clerk of the Court
pursuant to IC 33-19-5-1, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the amount in the
General Fund.
   (D)   In the case of a payment of stipulated costs recovered pursuant to §§
35.32,
35.34(A) or §
35.34(D), the payments shall be allocated and deposited to the fund or funds
from which the stipulated costs themselves originally were paid or obligated.
   (E)   In the case of a payment for recover of damage or loss occasioned by
the violation of an enforcement provision pursuant to §
35.34(C), any such payment shall be proportionally allocated to the fund or
funds from which:
      (1)   Payment will or has been made to repair or replace the damaged
property, or to the General Fund if the property will not be repaired or
replaced; or
      (2)   Any other pecuniary loss has occurred, has or will be debited, or
from which the loss has or will be made up, if the specific fund or funds are
identifiable and if not, to the General Fund.
('85 Code, § 1-3-19)
Editor’s note:
   IC 33-19-5-1 was repealed by P.L. 98-2004, Sec. 164.
§ 35.36 FURTHER RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Attorney, the Police Chief and the chief
officer of any other department, board, commission or similar agency which has
been given responsibility for the administration and enforcement of any
enforcement provision of this code, may stipulate or prescribe any other rules
or procedures, not inconsistent with law, applicable state regulations, court
procedures or the expressed provisions of this chapter, as they may deem
necessary or desirable to promote the orderly, efficient and expeditious
carrying out of their respective enforcement duties and the rules and
procedures so stipulated and prescribed by these officers shall have the same
effect and force as if they had been expressly adopted and made a part of the
provisions of this chapter.
('85 Code, § 1-3-20)
TOWN COURT
§ 35.50 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established, pursuant to IC 33-35-1-1, the Town Court of Sheridan,
Indiana, which shall come into existence on January 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.51 APPOINTMENT AND ELECTION OF JUDGE; TERM AND BOND.
   (A)   The judge of the Town Court shall be elected at the municipal election
in November 2019.
   (B)   The term of the judge elected shall be four years beginning at 12:00
noon on January 1, 2020, and continuing until a successor is elected. Before
beginning the duties of office, the judge shall take and subscribe to the same
oath of office as judges of circuit courts and, in the manner prescribed by IC
5-4-1, execute a bond in the penal sum of $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the judge’s office with good and sufficient
surety. The bond must be approved by the Town Council and filed in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The judge must be an attorney in good standing admitted to practice
law in the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.52 POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDGE.
   (A)   The judge shall have all powers outlined in IC 33-35-2-1, including
adopting rules for conducting the business of the Court. The judge has all
power incident to a court of record in relation to the attendance of witnesses,
the punishment of contempt, the enforcement of its orders, and the issuing of
commissions to take depositions in cases pending in the Court. The judge may
administer oaths and give all necessary certificates for the authentication of
the records and proceedings.
   (B)   If the judge is temporarily unable to act, he or she shall appoint a
reputable practicing attorney to preside in his or her absence. The special
judge shall have all the powers and rights, and shall perform all the duties,
of the judge of the Court as fully as the regular judge appointing the special
judge.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.53 COMPENSATION OF JUDGE.
   The judge is entitled to receive compensation as prescribed by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.54 COURT JURISDICTION.
   The Town Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all violations of the
ordinances of the town. The Town Court shall also have jurisdiction of all
misdemeanors, infractions, and all other ordinance violations described in any
interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.55 COURT SESSIONS.
   The judge shall hold sessions of the Town Court as the business of the Court
demands, at a place to be provided and designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.56 COURT SEAL.
   The judge shall provide, at the expense of the town, a seal for the Court
that must contain on the face thereof the words: “Town Court of Sheridan,
Indiana.” A description of the seal, together with an impression of it, shall
be affixed to the records of the Court.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.57 TOWN COURT OFFICERS.
   The clerk is an officer of the Town Court. The judge may act as clerk and
perform all duties of the clerk of the Court or appoint a clerk of the Court.
If the judge does not act as a clerk of the Court or appoint a clerk of the
Court, the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected under IC 3-10-6 or IC 3-10-7 shall
perform the duties of the clerk of the Town Court. The clerk may not receive
any fees or compensation other than the clerk’s salary.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.58 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   The Town Marshal or a Deputy Marshal shall serve all process issuing from
the Town Court.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.59 BOOKS, DOCKETS, PAPERS, AND PRINTED BLANKS.
   The judge shall provide, at the expense of the town, all books, dockets,
papers, and printed blanks necessary for the discharge of the duties of the
Court.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.60 JUDGMENTS, ORDERS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   All judgments, decrees, and proceedings of the Court have the same force as
those of the circuit court. A judgment becomes a lien on real estate when a
transcript of the judgment is filed with the clerk of the circuit court.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
§ 35.61 APPEALS.
   An appeal from a judgment of the Court may be taken to the superior,
circuit, or probate court of the county within 30 days after the rendition of
the judgment and tried de novo.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 10-8-18)
CHAPTER 36: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Statutory authority
   
36.02   Definition
   
36.03   Declaration of local civil emergency
   
36.04   Special powers and regulations
   
36.05   Absence or incapacity of Town Council President; succession of power
Administration and Enforcement
   
36.15   Town Civil Defense Director designated
   
36.16   Duties of Civil Defense Director
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are enacted pursuant to and subject to any
limitations provided by state law pursuant to the general powers of a town to
provide for the public safety, peace and order in accordance with IC 36-8-2 and
pursuant to all general and residual powers of a town under IC 36-1-3. The
special powers and regulations provided herein shall be actualized and in
effect when:
   (A)   A general state of civil emergency is declared by the Governor of the
state, affecting the area in which the town is located, to the extent that the
special powers or regulations are not inconsistent with the orders of the
Governor or an applicable statewide disaster plan; or
   (B)   A local state of civil emergency is declared by the President of the
Town Council pursuant to state law, but the special powers and regulations
shall not remain in effect unless the Town Council, by a majority vote, agrees
and consents to a further continuance.
('85 Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
§ 36.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute that force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law;
      (2)   Any natural disaster or man-made calamity including, but not
limited to flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion
within the corporate limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of
persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare; or
      (3)   The advent of foreign attack or invasion, or other hostile military
or paramilitary action.
('85 Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
§ 36.03 DECLARATION OF LOCAL CIVIL EMERGENCY.
   A local civil emergency may only be declared by the President of the Town
Council by written proclamation and only if he or she finds that at least one
of the conditions described in §
36.02 prevail in the town. The proclamation shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be widely publicized by the best means available.
('85 Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
§ 36.04 SPECIAL POWERS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When a civil emergency is declared by the Governor, or by the
President of the Town Council pursuant to §
36.03, the Town Council President, as appropriate to the situation and
necessary to safeguard the people of the town, has and may exercise any of the
following powers to:
      (1)   Suspend or modify any administrative regulation or procedure
adopted by town ordinance or resolution, but not a regulation or procedure
required by statute unless the Governor concurrently suspends the operation of
the statute;
      (2)   Assign emergency duties to the officers and employees of the town;
      (3)   Make available to the employees equipment, property, materials and
supplies to the town, either within or outside of the town, to deal with the
emergency or to assist victims;
      (4)   Prohibit access to or travel within all or parts o the town;
      (5)   Impose a general curfew on the residents of the town, effective at
whatever times and in such parts of the town as appropriate to protect the
public safety and restore order.
      (6)   Prohibit the sale or giving away of alcoholic beverages or the
consumption thereof in any public place or in a motor vehicle.
      (7)   Prohibit the sale, giving away or possession and carrying in public
of firearms, ammunition, other weapons, explosive materials or flammable and
incendiary materials, including gasoline.
      (8)   Order a general or partial evacuation of the town;
      (9)   Make other rules, regulations, orders or procedures as may be
necessary, provided:
         (a)   They are not inconsistent with the orders of the Governor or
regulations of a state agency implementing civil emergency procedures; and,
         (b)   They shall be effective only when set forth in writing and filed
in the office of the town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any order or regulation imposed by the Town Council President acting
pursuant to this section shall have the full force of law as provided by state
law and the Town Council President may call on any police agency to enforce the
orders and regulations.
('85 Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.05 ABSENCE OR INCAPACITY OF TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT; SUCCESSION OF POWER.
   In the event the Town Council President is absent or incapacitated during a
civil emergency, the powers incumbent on the President by §§
36.03 or
36.04 shall devolve and may be exercised as follows:
   (A)   First, by the President Pro Tem of the Town Council.
   (B)   Second, by the remaining members of the Town Council, acting jointly.
   (C)   Third, by any remaining Town Trustee.
   (D)   Fourth, by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Fifth, by the Town Marshal.
('85 Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
36.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.15 TOWN CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Civil Defense Director for the town, or if
no other person is appointed, the Town Marshal shall serve, ex officio, in that
capacity.
('85 Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
§ 36.16 DUTIES OF CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of Civil Defense designated by §
36.15 shall:
      (1)   Prepare and keep current a civil emergency plan for the town.
      (2)   Communicate in written form a clear and complete statement of the
responsibilities of the departments, agencies and officials of the town
government.
      (3)   Coordinate the civil emergency plans of the town with those of
civil defense agencies of neighboring municipalities, the county and the state.
      (4)   Take charge of and coordinate the civil defense efforts and
activities of the town in the advent of an actual civil emergency.
   (B)   The Director also may develop reciprocal aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies in the state to render or receive aid in case of
disaster too great for one of the parties to the agreement to deal with
unassisted. Those mutual aid agreements shall be subject to ratification by the
Town Council. The Director also may recruit and appoint from among responsible
citizens of the town volunteer civil defense and disaster workers as he or she
shall deem necessary to implement civil defense plans in the event of a civil
emergency and prescribed duties for those persons.
('85 Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   It is a penal violation for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
order or regulation promulgated during a civil emergency pursuant to §
36.04 by the Town Council President or a person authorized pursuant to §
36.05. Any person committing a penal violation shall, upon conviction, be fined
in an amount not less than $500 nor more than $2,500, but each day a violation
continues is and may be cited and prosecuted as a separate offense if not
otherwise a distinct act and violation.
('85 Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. 1985-C25, passed 9-16-85)
CHAPTER 37: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Affirmative Action Program
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Objective
   
37.03   Implementation
   
37.04   Policy
   
37.05   Pledge
Police Sale Authority
   
37.15   Sales without bids by the Police Department
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The Affirmative Action Program for the Town of Sheridan, Indiana,
hereinafter referred to as the town, is designed to insure that every good
faith effort is made to provide equal employment opportunity to all existing
employees and all potential employees.
(Ord. 1993-3-2, passed 4-13-93)
§ 37.02 OBJECTIVE.
   The objective of the town's Affirmative Action Program is:
   (A)   To formalize and reaffirm past town policies, practices and procedures
for hiring, promotion, transfer, training, compensation, benefits, layoff and
recall, and all other equal employment opportunities to which each individual
is entitled;
   (B)   To priority areas of employment in which minorities and women are
under-utilized and to seek improving utilization of minorities and women in
those areas;
   (C)   To establish realistic hiring goals to correct areas of under-
utilization. Hiring goals shall reflect a sincere effort to utilize minorities
and women in all levels of government employment on the basis of skill and
ability and without regard to race, creed, color, sex or national origin;
   (D)   To conduct a yearly audit of the employees working in town government
to ascertain the minority and female employment ratios, job levels of
employment of minorities and females, and rates of compensation of minorities
and females in comparison to town-wide employment rates of compensation;
   (E)   To make available to all departments and its employees information
concerning the Affirmative Action Program of the town; and
   (F)   To assist all employees and applicants working for or seeking work
with the town with any problems that relate to equal employment opportunity.
(Ord. 1993-3-2, passed 4-13-93)
§ 37.03 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Town Council and the Town Council President personally make the
commitment that all of the objectives of equal employment shall be fulfilled
for all. The Town Council shall declare this intent through an ordinance
setting forth these objectives in the town's Affirmative Action Program.
(Ord. 1993-3-2, passed 4-13-93)
§ 37.04 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide equal employment opportunity
to all persons without regard to their race, creed, color, sex, handicap, or
national origin, and to promote the full realization of equal employment
opportunity through a positive and continuing program. The town shall enact
policies which reflect compliance to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
Age Discrimination Employment Act of 1967, The Equal Pay for Equal Work Act,
and Executive Orders 4141 and 11246, which eliminates any and all restrictions,
if any based on race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap or national origin
with respect to recruiting, hiring, training, compensation overtime, job
classifications and assignments, working conditions promotions, transfers,
employee treatment and any other aspects of employment.
   (B)   The town will assure that applicants are recruited and hired and that
employees are treated during employment without regard to race, creed,
religion, sex, color, handicap or national origin. The town shall not
discriminate against the handicapped and shall afford to the handicapped, as to
all of its citizens, equal opportunity to participate in employment with the
town and to enjoy the full benefits of equal employment as is insured to all
employees of the town.
   (C)   It is the intent of the town in the implementation of this policy to
provide opportunities for members of minority groups, and to employ significant
numbers of minorities and females at all job levels through upgrading and
recruiting actions. Furthermore, it is the town policy to coordinate the
Affirmative Action Program in such a manner as to encourage all employees,
especially minority and female and handicap employees to advance within the
limits of each individual's capabilities.
   (D)   It shall be the policy of the town to make known its Affirmative
Action Program to all those who deal with the town.
(Ord. 1993-3-2, passed 4-13-93)
§ 37.05 PLEDGE.
   The Town of Sheridan pledges to support the Affirmative Action Program to
the spirit and intent of its laws and commitments. The town shall insure equal
employment opportunity to all of its citizens without regard to race, creed,
color, sex, religion, handicap, or national origin. The town shall update its
Affirmative Action Program and policies as new affirmative action policies are
instituted into law and new measures for providing better approaches to equal
employment opportunities arise.
(Ord. 1993-3-2, passed 4-13-93)
POLICE SALE AUTHORITY
§ 37.15 SALES WITHOUT BIDS BY THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town hereby authorizes the Police Chief to sell without bids those
items that come into the possession of the police, with a value of less than
$1,000, that have no useful purpose for the mission of the police. The money
received from the sale shall go into a police fund to be established by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to create and maintain a fund
for the purpose of accumulating the receipts of the sale of property authorized
by this subchapter. Expenditure of said funds shall be at Council discretion.
(Ord. 2008-10-2, passed 10-23-08)
CHAPTER 38: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
38.01   Department of Administration duties and responsibilities
   
38.02   Department of Public Works duties and responsibilities
§ 38.01 DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Council hereby establishes the Department of Administration of the Town
of Sheridan, Indiana, which shall be responsible for performing the duties,
responsibilities and services designated in Exhibit A of Resolution 2024-17 and
such other duties and responsibilities as assigned to the Department by the
Council from time to time.
(Res. 2024-17, passed 11-25-24)
§ 38.02 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Council further designates that the Department of Public Works shall be
responsible for those duties, responsibilities and services designated in
Exhibit A of Resolution 2024-17 and such other duties and responsibilities as
are assigned to the DPW by the Council from time to time.
(Res. 2024-17, passed 11-25-24)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
         
APPENDIX: SANITARY SEWER DIAGRAMS
      
51.   WATER
         
APPENDIX: WATER MAIN DIAGRAMS
      
52.   GARBAGE
      
53.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Authority to establish sewage works
   
50.002   Authority of town to prohibit or restrict admission of certain wastes
to sewage system
   
50.003   Power of town to adopt further regulations and procedures for
operation and maintenance of sewage works
   
50.004   Definitions
   
50.005   Non-abnegation of further public health regulations
   
50.006   General restriction on discharge of wastewater and polluting waters
   
50.007   Subordination of provisions and standards to state and federal
requirements
   
50.008   Notice to abate
   
50.009   Standards for work in regulated drains
   
50.010   Contracts required for new industrial sewer users
Building Sewers; Sewer Connections; Permits
   
50.020   Connection to available public sewer; when required; use of private
sewage disposal systems when public sewer not available
   
50.021   Cost of required building sewer to be borne by owner; general
indemnity requirements
   
50.022   Sewer connection permit required; application process and requirements
   
50.023   Classes of sewer permits; permit and inspection fees
   
50.024   Qualifications of person performing work on building sewers; bond and
insurance
   
50.025   Conditions of sewer permits; capacity requirements
   
50.026   Conditions of sewer permits; inspection and approval by town;
certificate of approval
   
50.027   General design and layout requirements for building sewers
   
50.028   Installation of building sewers; safeguarding of excavation;
restoration of public property
Admissibility of Wastes; Pre-Treatment
   
50.040   Installation of garbage grinders; certain grinders requiring approval
of Superintendent
   
50.041   Discharge of unpolluted waters to sanitary sewers restricted;
exception
   
50.042   Mandatory or permissible discharge of unpolluted waters to storm
sewers or natural outlets
   
50.043   Certain substances prohibited from public sewers
   
50.044   Discretionary exclusion or condition of certain substances; powers of
Superintendent
   
50.045   Substances governed by §
50.044; alternative requirements or conditions when found deleterious
   
50.046   Notice to town of unusual flows or wastes
   
50.047   Cooling waters containing insoluble oil, grease or suspended solids
   
50.048   When grease, oil and sand interceptors required; design of
interceptors
   
50.049   Wastes from major contributing industries
   
50.050   Admission and treatment by special agreement permitted
   
50.051   Pre-treatment and flow-equalizing facilities; review and approval by
Superintendent
   
50.052   Maintenance and inspection of pre-treatment facilities
   
50.053   Inspection, testing and maintenance; general power to enter upon
properties; inquiries into industrial processes
   
50.054   Observance of safety rules; indemnification of commercial concerns
   
50.055   Right of access to public sewer easements
   
50.056   Right to require non-residential users to provide wastewater
information costs
   
50.057   Control manhole for industrial users; specifications; maintenance;
access
   
50.058   Testing of wastewater to determine specific sewer charges; costs
   
50.059   Standards and methods of testing
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
50.070   General character and application of sewer rates and charges
   
50.071   User charges subject to EPA regulations
   
50.072   Base monthly rate; volumetric charge
   
50.073   Residential multi-unit consumers on single meter; method of
determining charge
   
50.074   Other residential users on single meter; method of determining charge
   
50.075   High-volume water consumers not discharging all water to sewage
system; measurement and adjustment of sewage volume
   
50.076   Unmetered or partially metered water users; determination of sewage
volume; applicable equivalent rates
   
50.077   Surcharges and other costs; surcharges for abnormal BOD and suspended
solids treatment
   
50.078   Recovery of industrial monitoring costs
   
50.079   Special sewage treatment rate contracts authorized
   
50.080   Billing period and payment due date
   
50.081   Billings to tenants in lieu of owner procedure; obligation of owner
   
50.082   Delinquent payments; penalty charge
   
50.083   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.084   Biennial review
Sanitary Sewer Construction Standards
   
50.090   General
   
50.091   Quality assurance
   
50.092   Standards
   
50.093   Products
   
50.094   PVC or ABS pipe - gravity
   
50.095   PVC pipe - force main
   
50.096   Ductile iron pipe (DIP) - gravity
   
50.097   Ductile iron pipe (DIP) - force main
   
50.098   Manhole and accessories
   
50.099   Execution
   
50.100   Installation of sewer pipe
   
50.101   Installation of manholes
   
50.102   Sanitary sewer testing
   
50.103   Manhole vacuum testing
Storm Sewer Construction Standards
   
50.115   Scope
   
50.116   Quality assurance
   
50.117   Standards
   
50.118   Products
   
50.119   Corrugated metal pipe (CMP)
   
50.120   Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP)
   
50.121   High density polyethylene pipe (HDPE)
   
50.122   Polyvinyl chloride pipe (PVC)
   
50.123   Perforated corrugated plastic pipe (PCPP)
   
50.124   Catch basins, inlets, and accessories
   
50.125   Manholes and accessories
   
50.126   Execution
   
50.127   Installation of sewer pipe
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
50.980   Notification of violation
   
50.981   Consent orders
   
50.982   Show cause hearing
   
50.983   Compliance orders
   
50.984   Cease and desist orders
   
50.985   Administrative fines
   
50.986   Emergency suspensions
   
50.987   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
50.990   Injunctive relief
   
50.991   Civil penalties
   
50.992   Criminal prosecution
   
50.993   Remedies nonexclusive
 
   
50.999   Penalty
   
Appendix: Sanitary sewer diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH SEWAGE WORKS.
   (A)   The town shall establish, construct, equip, own, operate and maintain
sewage works, together with the equipment and appurtenances as may be necessary
or useful and convenient for the collection, treatment, purification and
disposal in a sanitary manner of the sewage and industrial wastes of the town,
including the necessary lands, rights-of-way or other property therefor within
or without the corporate limits of the town, under and pursuant to IC 36-9-23,
as amended, and ail laws supplemental thereto (hereinafter sometimes referred
to as “the Act”).
   (B)   The terms SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS, WORKS, PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT
WORKS (POTW) and other like terms, where used in this chapter, shall be
construed to mean and include all the structures and property.
   (C)   The sewage works consists of existing or acquired: land, easements,
rights-of-way, trunk sewers, connection(s) and local sewers, lift station(s),
force main(s), sewage treatment facilities and other equipment, accessories and
appurtenances, as documented and on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town.
('85 Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 1983-9, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.002 AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT ADMISSION OF CERTAIN WASTES
TO SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation
of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works. This authority includes the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter and if applicable, any effective industrial
wastewater pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW
which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere
with the operations of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the town for
administering the pretreatment program requirements established in the NPDES
permit;
   (G)   Impose a fine of at least $1,000 per day, per violation, in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.9(f)(l)(vi)(A), but no more than $2,500 per day, per violation
for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation for
subsequent violations, in accordance with IC 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
('85 Code, § 4-4-22) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.003 POWER OF TOWN TO ADOPT FURTHER REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE WORKS.
   Subject to the provisions of §
50.041 the town shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the town’s
sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of rates and
charges.
('85 Code, § 4-4-23) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or other,
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewater from
individual point source discharges.
   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial sewage,
stormwater, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business or service, which, based on a determination by the town, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat those pollutants, and in
fact does remove those pollutants to a substantial degree. The term
“substantial degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally
contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals
in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the
additional pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   Total organic carbon.
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds.
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds.
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited, where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or rooms, or any other spaces in which cooking
facilities are provided.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of the
waste water treatment works.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. Any nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into
a publicly owned treatment works, regardless of whether the discharger is
within the governmental jurisdiction of the town.
   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any trade, or
process carried on in that establishment (this includes the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste, or any indirect discharger, to a publicly owned treatment
works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
      (1)   The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or
business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      (2)   The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or business
processes, as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. The term does not
include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION AND INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, catch basins, storm
water, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include,
and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment in a social, charitable, religious
and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the publicly owned treatment works, its
treatment processes or operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge
use or disposal methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation;
      (3)   Prevents the use of the publicly owned treatment work’s sewage
sludge or its sludge disposal method selected in compliance with the following
statutory provisions, regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more
stringent state or local regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901), including:
            A.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act(RCRA);and
            B.   The rules contained within any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purposes of determining surcharges, the term
means:
      (1)   Wastewateror sewage having an average daily concentration of not
more than 200 mg/IBOD and not more than 240 mg/l suspended solids; or
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States, pursuant to PL 92-500, § 402.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charge and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a publicly owned treatment
works into waters of the state in quantities or concentrations that, alone or
in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, are a cause
of a violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. A state pretreatment standard as established in 327
IAC 5-18-8; a pretreatment standard for prohibited discharges, as established
in 327 IAC 5-18-2; or a national categorical pretreatment standard incorporated
by reference in 327 IAC 5-18-10.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority,
including collector and interceptor sewers, force mains and pumping stations.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the. storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also
includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to
a POTW treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which those
works were designed and constructed. REPLACEMENT COSTS, which are recovered
through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected useful
life of the sewage works equipment.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including all
dwelling units and the like.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are sanitary
sewage, industrial sewage, and combined sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport,
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user that meets one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 IAC 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blow-down
wastewater) to the publicly owned treatment works;
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the publicly owned
treatment works treatment plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            (1)   Adversely affect the publicly owned treatment work’s
operations;
            (2)   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            (3)   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a publicly owned treatment works
and in accordance with 327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is
not a significant industrial user if it does not meet Part III.A.9.b.(3) of the
town’s NPDES permit. SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER definition division (2)(c)
above.]
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow excess for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or the Superintendent’s authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to PL 92-500 § 307(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works, pursuant to PL 92-500 § 204
(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities. The
various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes of this
chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential.
      (2)   Commercial.
      (3)   Governmental.
      (4)   Industrial.
      (5)   Institutional.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550 degrees Celsius for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
('85 Code, §§ 4-5-1 and 4-6-1) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1983-7,
passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.005 NON-ABNEGATION OF FURTHER PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
('85 Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 GENERAL RESTRICTION ON DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER AND POLLUTING WATERS.
   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the town, nor
shall discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit, or in accordance with
Chapter 51.
('85 Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 SUBORDINATION OF PROVISIONS AND STANDARDS TO STATE AND FEDERAL
REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
('85 Code, § 4-5-33) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
('85 Code, § 4-5-34) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.009 STANDARDS FOR WORK IN REGULATED DRAINS.
   (A)   Area of jurisdiction. The provisions of this section shall regulate,
guide and control all territory in the town as now constituted and as may be
added to the town in the future.
   (B)   Outlets. All outlets into regulated drains or natural watercourses,
either direct or indirect, shall meet the standards prepared by the County
Surveyor and the requirements set out in this section. Outlets into regulated
drains or natural watercourses shall provide a positive unobstructed or
unrestrictive conveyance into the system. The following provisions shall be
followed:
      (1)   All conveyances shall terminate into an approved adequate outlet;
      (2)   All outlets, either open drain or storm sewer, shall extend to the
regulated drain or natural watercourse;
      (3)   All storm sewers shall extend to either a receiving storm sewer
system or an open regulated drain or natural surface watercourse as approved by
the Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office (hereinafter referred to as “the HCSO”);
      (4)   Storm sewers shall not outlet into rear yard swales;
      (5)   Outlets shall not directly discharge onto the ground surface as
surface flow:
      (6)   Underwater discharges shall not be allowed. All discharges into a
watercourse, pond or lake shall have the invert at or above the normal pool
elevation or normal flow elevation for the receiving system.
   (C)   Improvements to watercourses.
      (1)   Whenever a residential subdivision or commercial development
constructs improvements upon lands which are traversed by a watercourse, the
landowner/developer shall make improvements to the watercourse. These
improvements shall consist of the following:
         (a)   All debris and obstructions within the channel (bank to bank)
shall be removed. This shall include but not be limited to logjams and trash.
         (b)   Clear all trees which are dead and leaning at a 45 degree or
greater angle, or trees on which the roots are exposed in the channel and
potentially will fall into the stream. In clearing, the trees shall be cut
flush with the ground and treated with an EPA-approved brush killer.
         (c)   All steam bank erosion shall be repaired in an acceptable
manner, approved by the Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office.
   (D)   Improvements. Whenever a residential subdivision or commercial
development constructs improvements upon land which is traversed by, or whose
property line is within an easement for an open regulated drain, the landowner/
developer shall make improvements to the open regulated drain. These
improvements shall consist of the following:
      (1)   All debris and obstructions within the channel (bank to bank) shall
be removed. This shall include, but not be limited to, logjams, beaver dams,
rocks and trash.
      (2)   All trees and brush from bank to bank within the channel shall be
removed. Trees and brush shall be removed on each side of the drain for a
distance of 30 feet, as measured from the top of the bank on both sides of that
drain. Trees greater than 18 inches as measured at breast height may be saved
if approved by the HCSO inspector.
      (3)   All open regulated drains shall have an on-site inspection priorto
construction plans having been developed. On-site inspection shall be with the
HCSO plan reviewer, inspector and developer and/or his or her engineer.
   (E)   Off-site improvements. If an adequate outlet is not located on-site,
then off-site drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may
include but are not limited to: extending storm sewers, clearing, dredging and/
or removal of obstructions to open drains or natural watercourses, and the
removal or replacement of undersized culvert pipes as required by the County
Surveyor. Where the outfall from the storm water drainage system of any
developer flows through real estate owned by others priorto reaching a
regulated drain or natural watercourse, no approval shall be granted for such
stormwater drainage system until all impacted owners either consent in writing
to such use of their real estate, or are notified of such proposal and their
rights to appeal any approval of the design. Proof of this notification must be
submitted to the Hamilton County Surveyor.
   (F)   Floodplain management. The intent of floodplain management is to
protect against loss of property, protect human life, and maintain natural
areas that help mitigate flooding. Therefore, infilling of land in the
floodplain of regulated drains is prohibited. Floodplain boundaries are to be
determined by using the floodway-flood boundary maps of the Federal Insurance
Administration/Federal Emergency Management Agency. FLOODPLAIN shall include
floodway and floodway fringe areas.
      (1)   If a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodway-flood boundary
map does not establish a 100-year water surface elevation, the 100-yearwater
surface elevation shall be established:
         (a)   By a site specific recommendation from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources; or
         (b)   Through a site specific engineering analysis performed by a
registered professional engineer licensed in the State of Indiana and approved
by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Exceptions to this section are as follows:
         (a)   Agricultural uses, such as crop production, pastures, orchards,
tree farms, plant nurseries, vineyards, and general farming.
         (b)   Forestry, wildlife areas and nature preserves.
         (c)   Parks and recreational uses, except golf courses and driving
ranges.
         (d)   Public: streets, bridges, and roadways.
   (G)   General requirements.
      (1)   All lots will be given access to a subsurface drain, open ditch or
other adequate drain as determined by the surveyor.
      (2)   The allowable discharge rate is the staged detention for the two-,
ten- and 100-year, and 24-hour storm events. For small storms (up to the
predeveloped ten-year rate) the allowable discharge rate is the cubic feet per
second for a predeveloped two-year storm. For storms with intensities between
the predeveloped ten-year rate and the 100-year developed rate, the allowable
discharge is the cubic feet per second for the predeveloped ten-year storm. The
difference is to be detained. In some watersheds the allowable discharge rate
shall be based upon the most restrictive downstream structure or channel
capacity where the standard allowable release rate has been determined to cause
flooding. Detention calculations shall be based on the SCS unit hydrograph or
other approved method.
      (3)   Dry detention basins for residential subdivisions shall be located
within areas designed as common areas. Dry detention areas shall not be located
either partially or completely within residential lots. The common areas for
detention basins shall also be noted as drainage easements. Dry detention
basins shall be designed so as to allow for subsurface drainage (SSD)
throughout, SSD shall be on 25-foot (on center) parallel runs, minimum of 0.5%
gradient with two-foot minimum cover, and have a free positive outlet
downstream of the outlet for the basin.
      (4)   For drainage facilities which will become regulated drains, the
following requirements shall be followed:
         (a)   Storm sewers shall be reinforced concrete pipe with a minimum
diameter of 12 inches. Storm sewers shall have a minimum of two feet in cover.
         (b)   Subsurface drains (SSD) shall be a minimum diameter of six
inches and shall be Schedule 35 PVC or Double Wall perforated or non-perforated
plastic pipe.
         (c)   Rear yard and side yard drainage easements for regulated drains
shall not be less than 30 feet in width, 15 feet each one-half for storm
sewers. Minimum drainage easements for open drains shall be 25 feet from the
top of bank. The top of bank shall be determined by the County Surveyor.
      (5)   All structures shall have minimum finished floor elevations located
at least two feet above the 100-year water surface elevations of any
watercourse, pond or lake. All development plans and construction plans shall
have minimum finished floor elevation denoted on each lot or building.
(Ord. 2000-1-2, passed 1-11-00; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.010 CONTRACTS REQUIRED FOR NEW INDUSTRIAL SEWER USERS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, INDUSTRIAL USER shall have the
definition set forth in §
50.004.
   (B)   On or after the effective date of this section, all industrial users
located within the town or four miles outside the town connected or connecting
to the wastewater utility formerly owned by the town shall first execute an
agreement with Indiana-American Water Company, Inc., establishing the terms and
conditions regarding the substances that may be disposed.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 11-15-18)
BUILDING SEWERS; SEWER CONNECTIONS; PERMITS
§ 50.020 CONNECTION TO AVAILABLE PUBLIC SEWER; WHEN REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS WHEN PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required, at his or her
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect those
facilities directly with the proper sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so,
provided the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. However,
where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system.
('85 Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 COST OF REQUIRED BUILDING SEWER TO BE BORNE BY OWNER; GENERAL
INDEMNITY REQUIREMENTS.
   A fee of $2,000 shall be charged for any new sewer connection. All costs and
expense incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall
be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
('85 Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-10-
86; Am. Ord. 1989-3, passed 10-23-89; Am. Ord. 96-10-2, passed 11-12-96; Am.
Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCESS AND
REQUIREMENTS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk- Treasurer. A property owner
wishing to connect or modify the connection of a building sewer to the public
sewer may apply for the permit to do so or with the written authorization of
the property owner, a contractor engaged to perform the work may make the
application. In any event, the application shall disclose the identity of the
person who will perform the work and evidence shall be provided to the Clerk-
Treasurer that the person meets the requirements stipulated by §
50.024 before the permit may be issued. The owner or the owner’s agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the town and shall include
plans, specifications and other information deemed pertinent by the Inspector.
('85 Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 CLASSES OF SEWER PERMITS; PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time
application is filed under §
50.022. There shall be two classes of building permits and fees therefor, as
follows:
 
TYPE OF USER           PERMIT FEE
Residential/commercial $25
Industrial             25
 
('85 Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 QUALIFICATIONS OF PERSON PERFORMING WORK ON BUILDING SEWERS; BOND AND
INSURANCE.
   This section applies to all contractors or other persons constructing,
relocating or substantially modifying a building sewer connected or to be
connected to the public sewer.
   (A)   No permit may be granted under§
50.022 unless the designated contractor or other person performing the work
has:
      (1)   Filed with the town a performance bond in a minimum amount of
$2,000, running in favor of the town and in a form acceptable to the town, as
guarantee to the town against any damages done to the public sewer or other
public property or costs incurred by the town to correct any improperly
performed work; and
      (2)   Provided evidence of public liability or other insurance as may be
required by the Town Council, in the amounts as may, from time to time, be
stipulated by them, to indemnify the town against any liability claims which
may be brought against the town or against any other damages or costs which may
arise out of the performance of the permitted work.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, nor any security provided hereunder, is
intended to relieve the property owner of any general liability and indemnity
obligations as provided by§
50.021 to the extent provided by bonds or insurance referred to in this
section.
('85 Code, § 4-5-8) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 CONDITIONS OF SEWER PERMITS; CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS.
   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary, combined or storm sewer
unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations,
force mains and the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and
suspended solids.
('85 Code, § 4-5-9) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 CONDITIONS OF SEWER PERMITS; INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY TOWN;
CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   No backfilling or other concealment of the building sewer system may be
performed until the inspection required under this section has been performed
and all work approved by the Inspector. The applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the Inspector when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Inspector or the Inspector’s representative.
Written confirmation of inspection and approval shall be provided to the
property owner and also kept on record by the town.
('85 Code, § 4-5-10) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 GENERAL DESIGN AND LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Building sewers subject to a permit under §
50.022 must be designed and constructed in accordance with the following
general standards:
      (1)   Separate sewer required for each building; exception. A separate
and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered one
building sewer.
      (2)   Use of old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination, and
test by the Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Elevation of building sewer connection to building drain. When
possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation
below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too
low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the
building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the
building sewer.
      (4)   Other requirements for materials and methods of construction. The
size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer and the
methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town. In the
absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F.
Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (5)   Specifications for connection to public sewer. The connection of
the building sewer into the private sewer shall conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M.
and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.9. All such connections shall be made
gas tight and water tight.
   (B)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
('85 Code, § 4-5-11) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWERS; SAFEGUARDING OF EXCAVATION;
RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
('85 Code, § 4-5-12) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
ADMISSIBILITY OF WASTES; PRE-TREATMENT
§ 50.040 INSTALLATION OF GARBAGE GRINDERS; CERTAIN GRINDERS REQUIRING APPROVAL
OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor
of .75 horsepower (.76 horsepower, metric) or greater shall be subject to
review and approval by the Superintendent.
('85 Code, § 4-5-13) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS TO SANITARY SEWERS RESTRICTED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwaters, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or
unpolluted industrial process water.
   (C)   The town shall require the removal of unpolluted water from any
wastewater collection or treatment facility of that removal is cost-effective
or is in the best interest of all users of those facilities. However,
unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling condensing systems or swimming
pools, or pretreated industrial cooling water of the kind described by §
50.048, may be discharged to a sanitary sewer with the written approval of the
town when a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet is not available.
('85 Code, § 4-5-14) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 MANDATORY OR PERMISSIBLE DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS TO STORM
SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling condensing systems or
swimming pools or pretreated industrial cooling water of the kind described by
§
50.047, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or to a
combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Other unpolluted water, such as stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or unpolluted industrial process water may be
admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their accommodation.
No person shall use those sewers, however, without specific permission of the
town.
('85 Code, § 4-5-16) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 CERTAIN SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
publicly owned treatment works.
   (B)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
publicly owned treatment works, including waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the
test methods in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (C)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
publicly owned treatment works, including a discharge with pH lower than 5.0,
unless the publicly owned treatment works is specifically designed to
accommodate such a discharge.
   (D)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause obstruction
to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the publicly
owned treatment works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper
dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (E)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the publicly owned treatment
works.
   (F)   Heat in an amount that could:
      (1)   Inhibit biological activity in the publicly owned treatment works
and result in interference or damage to the publicly owned treatment works; or
      (2)   Exceed 40 degrees Celsius or 104 degrees Fahrenheit at the publicly
owned treatment work treatment plant unless the Commissioner, upon request of
the publicly owned treatment works, approves alternate temperature limits.
   (G)   Petroleum, oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or mineral oil origin in
an amount that could cause interference or pass through. These pollutants
include, but are not limited to, any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (H)   A water, pollutant or waste containing or that could result in the
formation or presence of toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the publicly owned treatment works treatment plant.
   (I)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
      (1)   With the permission of the publicly owned treatment works; and
      (2)   When introduced to the publicly owned treatment works at a
discharge point designated by the Superintendent.
('85 Code, § 4-5-16) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.044 DISCRETIONARY EXCLUSION OR CONDITION OF CERTAIN SUBSTANCES; POWERS OF
SUPERINTENDENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Superintendent
will give consideration to factors such as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances which may be
prohibited or conditional in accordance with this section are:
   (A)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees and 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (zero and 65 degrees Celsius).
   (B)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (C)   Any substance discharged in accordance with §
50.043 but which has been identified as the potential cause of interference or
pass through of the publicly owned treatment works.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for those materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues; or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate. At no
time shall any discharge to the publicly owned treatment works contain a total
suspended solids concentration greater than 500 mg/l nor shall any 24-hour
average total suspended solids concentration exceed 300 mg/l;
      (2)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works. At no time shall any discharge to the publicly owned treatment works
contain a biochemical oxygen demand concentration greater than 500 mg/l nor
shall any 24-hour average biochemical oxygen demand concentration exceed 300
mg/l; or
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to or
reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to
treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction overdischarge to
the receivingwaters.
('85 Code, § 4-5-17) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045 SUBSTANCES GOVERNED BY § 50.044; ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENTS OR
CONDITIONS WHEN FOUND DELETERIOUS.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
50.044, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a nuisance,
the Superintendent may:
   (A)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
proper approval for discharges.
   (B)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town.
   (C)   Require pretreatment of the wastes so as to avoid any slug loads or
excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
   (D)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid any
slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
   (E)   Require payment of surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating the wastes.
('85 Code, § 4-5-18) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 NOTICE TO TOWN OF UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
('85 Code, § 4-5-19) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 COOLING WATERS CONTAINING INSOLUBLE OIL, GREASE OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS.
   Industrial cooling water which may be polluted with insoluble oils or grease
or suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and the
resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
50.042 or in accordance with §
50.041, if applicable.
('85 Code, § 4-5-20) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.048 WHEN GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED; DESIGN OF
INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (A)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, be gas tight, water tight, and equipped with
easily removable covers.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at the owner’s expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
('85 Code, § 4-5-21) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.049 WASTES FROM MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRIES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on August 25, 1978 (40 CFR 403)
and “Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants,” published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973 (40 CFR
136), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town
and any subsequent state or federal guidelines, rules and regulations.
('85 Code, § 4-5-22) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.050 ADMISSION AND TREATMENT BY SPECIAL AGREEMENT PERMITTED.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern at
the rates as are compatible with this chapter.
('85 Code, § 4-5-23) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.051 PRE-TREATMENT AND FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY
SUPERINTENDENT.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to pretreatment or
control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town and no
construction of those facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing
is granted.
('85 Code, § 4-5-24) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF PRE-TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner, at the owner’s expense, and shall be subject to periodic inspection by
the town to determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance
with applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall
maintain operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary
report of the character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of
the treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
('85 Code, § 4-5-25) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053 INSPECTION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE; GENERAL POWER TO ENTER UPON
PROPERTIES; INQUIRIES INTO INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the
town, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
However, the Superintendent or the Superintendent’s representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
('85 Code, § 4-5-26) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 OBSERVANCE OF SAFETY RULES; INDEMNIFICATION OF COMMERCIAL CONCERNS.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.053, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees. The town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
50.057.
('85 Code, § 4-5-27) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.055 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PUBLIC SEWER EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
('85 Code, § 4-5-28) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.056 RIGHT TO REQUIRE NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS TO PROVIDE WASTEWATER
INFORMATION COSTS.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows’ characteristics.
These measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
('85 Code, § 4-5-29) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.057 CONTROL MANHOLE FOR INDUSTRIAL USERS; SPECIFICATIONS; MAINTENANCE;
ACCESS.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at the owner’s expense, and shall
be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state water pollution control agencies, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
('85 Code, § 4-5-30) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.058 TESTING OF WASTEWATER TO DETERMINE SPECIFIC SEWER CHARGES; COSTS.
   The strength of wastewater shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in this chapter, from samples taken at the structure
described in §
50.057 (or at any place mutually agreed upon between the user and the town) at
any period of time and of such duration and in such manner as the town may
elect. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the
user at the option of the town. The results of the routine sampling and
analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
('85 Code, § 4-5-31) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.059 STANDARDS AND METHODS OF TESTING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
reports thereof, which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA published the Federal Register, October
16,1973 (38 CPR 20758) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the
town.
   (B)   In the event no special manhole has been required, the control manhole
shall be considered the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
      (1)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken.
      (2)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
('85 Code, § 4-5-32) (Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13) Penalty, see §
50.999
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING
§ 50.070 GENERAL CHARACTER AND APPLICATION OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town. For the services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein provided, or to charges and rates established in
harmony therewith. The rates and charges include user charges, debt service
costs, excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable and shall be in an amount determinable, as hereinafter
provided. These charges are established for each user class, as defined, in
order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user class,
revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of
volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
(`85 Code, Sec. 4-6-2) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1997-2-2(a),
passed 3- -97; Am. Ord. 2010-10-2, passed 11-18-10; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed
3-28-13)
§ 50.071 USER CHARGES SUBJECT TO EPA REGULATIONS.
   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal Register,
September 27, 1978 (43 CFR 44022).
('85 Code, § 4-6-3) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.072 BASE MONTHLY RATE; VOLUMETRIC CHARGE.
   (A)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges, as
the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based
on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage service, the
water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed each month (or
period equaling a month).
   (B)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges
shall be determined is as follows:
      (1)   All users, treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
$9.14, plus
      (2)   Monthly base rate as follows:
Monthly Base Rate
Water Meter (Inches) Rate Effective as of Closing
Monthly Base Rate
Water Meter (Inches) Rate Effective as of Closing
5/8 to 3/4           $ 22.58
1                    $ 51.79
1¼                  $ 81.13
1½                  $ 116.26
2                    $ 198.16
3                    $ 451.46
4                    $ 782.56
6                    $ 1,778.32
 
   (B)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or where
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The service on which the rates and charges shall be
determined are as follows:
 
Unmetered monthly rates based on equivalent single family dwelling unit $60.09
 
   (C)   For the services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges herein provided, or to charges and rates established
in harmony therewith.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user not less than the cost thereof. This charge will be
reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this chapter.
(`85 Code, Sec. 4-6-4) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1997-2-2(a),
passed 3- -97; Am. Ord. 2010-10-2, passed 11-18-10; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed
3-28-13; Am. Ord. 2018-11, passed 10-22-18)
§ 50.073 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-UNIT CONSUMERS ON SINGLE METER; METHOD OF
DETERMINING CHARGE.
   This section applies to residential users as herein described.
   (A)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, the billing shall be for a single service in the manner set
out in §
50.072, except the minimum bill shall be not less than the number of the
dwelling units times a base rate per month of $9.
   (B)   In the case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling units shall
be computed and interpreted as the total number of mobile home spaces available
for rent, plus any other dwelling units served through the meter.
('85 Code, § 4-6-5) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.074 OTHER RESIDENTIAL USERS ON SINGLE METER; METHOD OF DETERMINING CHARGE.
   (A)   This section applies to residential users as herein described, other
than those to which §
50.073 applies.
   (B)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, for billing purposes
the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each user and the base charge
and flow rates and charges under §
50.072 shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real
estate or buildings served through the single water meter.
('85 Code, § 4-6-6) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.075 HIGH-VOLUME WATER CONSUMERS NOT DISCHARGING ALL WATER TO SEWAGE
SYSTEM; MEASUREMENT AND ADJUSTMENT OF SEWAGE VOLUME.
   (A)   This section applies to all user classes who meet the conditions
herein described.
   (B)   As provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town not to enter
the sanitary sewerage system. In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or
building discharges sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids
into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and
uses water in excess of 25,000 gallons per month and it can be shown to the
satisfaction of the town that a portion of water, as measured by the water
meter or meters, does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the
owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
('85 Code, § 4-6-7) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.076 UNMETERED OR PARTIALLY METERED WATER USERS; DETERMINATION OF SEWAGE
VOLUME; APPLICABLE EQUIVALENT RATES.
   (A)   This section applies to all user classes, except those to whom §
50.079 applies, who own a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids, either directly or
indirectly, into the town’s sanitary sewage system, but who:
      (1)   Are not users of water supplied by the water utility serving the
town and the water used is not measured by a meter acceptable to the town; or,
      (2)   Are users of water supplied by the water utility serving the town,
but in addition, are users of water from other sources which is not measured by
a meter acceptable to the town; or,
      (3)   For whom accurate water meter readings are not available for any
reason.
   (B)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources of water described by divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
above shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town in such manner as
the town shall reasonably elect and the sewage service shall be billed at the
appropriate rates as provided in this section. For users of the sewage works to
whom this section applies, the monthly charges shall be determined on the basis
of equivalent single-family dwelling units. The schedule on which the rates and
charges shall be determined is as follows:
 
Monthly Rate Per Determined Single-Family Dwelling Unit Equivalency
User Charge Debt Service Total
$10.50      $20.16       $30.66
 
   (C)   In order to ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other
interested parties shall, at his, her, or their expense, install and maintain
meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method
of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage
discharge.
(`85 Code, Sec. 4-6-8) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1997-2-2(a),
passed 3- -97; Am. Ord. 2010-10-2, passed 11-18-10; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed
3-28-13)
§ 50.077 SURCHARGES AND OTHER COSTS; SURCHARGES FOR ABNORMAL BOD AND SUSPENDED
SOLIDS TREATMENT.
   This section applies to all user classes, except those to which §
50.079 applies, discharging sewage having the character described by divisions
(A)(1) and/or (A)(2) below.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitable
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on the strength and character of stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into
the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may
deem practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of
the case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a
central sampling point available to the town at all times. Normal sewage
domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical oxygen demand of 200
mg/l of fluid or suspended solids in excess of 240 mg/l of fluid. Additional
charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the
following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.06 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 mg/l of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.07 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 mg/l of fluid.
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day BOD contained in
the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of “Standards Methods,
for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes,” as written by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation and in conformance with “Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants,” Regulation 40 CFR
Part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
('85 Code, § 4-6-9) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.078 RECOVERY OF INDUSTRIAL MONITORING COSTS.
   This section applies to industrial users. In order to recover the cost of
monitoring industrial wastes, the town shall charge the user not less than the
cost thereof. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other rates
and charges in this chapter.
('85 Code, § 4-6-10) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2010-10-2, passed
11-18-10; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.079 SPECIAL SEWAGE TREATMENT RATE CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED.
   This section applies to all user classes. The Town Council may enter into
special rate contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly
definable reduction in cost to the sewage works can be determined and that
reduction shall be limited to the reduced costs.
('85 Code, § 4-6-11) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.080 BILLING PERIOD AND PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   Sewage rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed monthly.
The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance. The time at which the rate or charges
shall be paid is fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
('85 Code, § 4-6-12) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.081 BILLINGS TO TENANTS IN LIEU OF OWNER PROCEDURE; OBLIGATION OF OWNER.
   Rates and charges may be billed to the tenant occupying the property served,
unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but the billing shall, in
no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event payment is not made as
herein required. The owners of properties served, which are occupied by a
tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the town for the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by the
tenant. This examination must be made at the office at which the records are
kept and during the hours the office is open for business.
('85 Code, § 4-6-13) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.082 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; PENALTY CHARGE.
   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are hereby
declared delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or charges
shall thereupon attach thereto.
('85 Code, § 4-6-14) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
§ 50.083 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   The town shall disconnect utility service in accord with the following
policies:
   (A)   (1)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid and any deposit required
has been made.
      (2)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)    That any customer disputing the corrections of this bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided in
this section, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
Cross-reference:
   Termination of public services for nonpayment authorized, see §
51.02
§ 50.084 BIENNIAL REVIEW.
   In order that the rates and charges for sewer services may remain fair and
equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to the various
uses or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation following
November 8, 1983. The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis
of the costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems. Thereafter, on a biennial basis,
within a reasonable period of time following the normal accounting period, the
town shall cause a similar study to be made for the purpose of reviewing the
fairness and equity of the rates and charges for sewage services on a
continuing basis. The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of
the town or by a firm of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting
engineers, which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by which
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers
as the town shall determine best under the circumstances.
('85 Code, § 4-6-16) (Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-
28-13)
SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 50.090 GENERAL.
   (A)   Private developers shall submit to the Sheridan Planning Commission a
complete set of plans and specifications for a proposed subdivision or planned
development. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Indiana. The developers shall also submit a
copy of the construction permit for sanitary sewers issued by the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), plus any state, county or local
highway permits required.
   (B)   Plans shall show locations of all sanitary sewers, manholes and
laterals, and shall identify locations in public right-of-way or utility
easements for the facilities. Maximum spacing of sanitary manholes shall be 400
feet on center, or as directed by the Sheridan Sewer Department.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.091 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   (A)   Notify the town a minimum of 24 hours before any testing is to be
conducted. A representative of the Sheridan Sewer Department must be present to
witness all tests.
   (B)   Test all sewers installed as specified herein. Low pressure air tests
shall be in accordance with ASTM C 1417. Force main leakage and pressure tests
shall be in accordance with AWWA C 605. Manhole vacuum tests shall be in
accordance with ASTM C 1244.
   (C)   Submit copies of all test results to the town.
   (D)   Submit one complete set of as-built drawings of the sanitary sewers,
manholes, laterals and appurtenances as installed. These drawings shall be
submitted to the town at the completion of the installation and testing of the
sewer, and the acceptance of the facilities.
      (1)   All manholes shall be located and references to three permanent
surface improvements.
      (2)   All sewer laterals shall be located and references to the
downstream manhole (in feet) and depth of lateral at the property line.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.092 STANDARDS.
   Meet and comply with all applicable ASTM, AWWA and ANSI standards.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.093 PRODUCTS.
   All pipe, fittings, manholes, and appurtenances proposed as shown on the
submitted drawings shall be new and unused. Each length of pipe and fitting
shall be plainly stamped, marked or color coded to an acceptable standard as to
weight, class, and type thereof, and the manufacturer’s trademark or name.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.094 PVC OR ABS PIPE – GRAVITY.
   (A)   All gravity sewer pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC), SDR 35
conforming to ASTM D 3034, or acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) truss pipe
conforming to ASTM D 2680.
   (B)   All laterals shall be six inches in diameter polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
SDR 35 conforming to ASTM D 3034, or acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS)
solid wall SDR 35 conforming to ASTM D 2751.
   (C)   Mechanical plugs shall be wedge type plugs with rubber O- rings to
provide an airtight fitting.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.095 PVC PIPE – FORCE MAIN.
   (A)    Pipe shall conform to ANSI/ASTM D 2241 and have SDR 21. Pipe
materials shall conform to ASTM D 1784, Type 1, Grade 1, 2,000 psi design
stress. Pipe joints shall be single-gasket bell and spigot type, the bells
being formed integrally with the pipe.
   (B)   Fittings shall be mechanical joint iron or ductile iron conforming to
ANSI A21.10/AWWA C 110 and ANSI A21.11/AWWA C 111. Restrained joints may be
used instead of mechanical joints and thrust blocking and shall be Loc-Tyte,
Loc-Fast or approved equal.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.096 DUCTILE IRON PIPE (DIP) – GRAVITY.
   (A)   Pipe shall be ductile iron gravity sewer pipe conforming to ASTM A
746. Minimum thickness class shall be Class 50. The outside coating shall be a
bituminous coating approximately one ml thick. The interior lining shall be
cement mortar in accordance with ANSI A21.4.
   (B)   Joints shall be either push-on or mechanical. Fittings for force mains
shall be mechanical joint cast or ductile iron conforming to ANSI A21.10.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.097 DUCTILE IRON PIPE (DIP) – FORCE MAIN.
   (A)   Pipe shall be centrifugally cast in metal or sandlined molds and shall
conform to ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151. Minimum thickness class shall be Class 50
for all sizes. Pipe joints shall be push-on type and conform to ANSI A21.11/
AWWA C 111 unless otherwise noted on the drawings. Each length of pipe shall be
marked to show manufacturer’s name or trademark, pipe class, year of
manufacture conforming to ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151.
   (B)   Fittings shall be mechanical joint and iron or ductile iron conforming
to ANSI A21.10/AWWA C 110 and ANSI A21.11/AWWA C 111. Restrained joints may be
used instead of mechanical joints and thrust blocking and shall be Loc-Tyte,
Loc-Fast, or equal.
   (C)   All pipe and fittings shall have a standard thickness cement mortar
lining as specified in ANSI A 21.4/AWWA C 104 and an outside coating as
specified in ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151.
   (D)   Gaskets for mechanical joints and push-on joints shall conform to ANSI
A21.11/AWWA C 111.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.098 MANHOLE AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   Manholes shall be precast concrete manhole risers with eight-inch
precast concrete base and shall meet the requirements of ASTM C 478. Precast
concrete manhole cones shall be of concentric cone type and meet the
requirements of ASTM C 478. Manhole risers shall be 48 inches I.D. unless
otherwise noted on the drawings. Concentric cone sections shall have a 24-inch
opening.
   (B)   Joints for manhole sections shall have a flexible butyl rubber joint
gasket conforming to ASTM C 443.
   (C)   Manhole frames and lids shall have machined horizontal and vertical
bearing surfaces. Watertight frames and lids for sanitary sewers shall have a
grooved rubber gasket with concealed pick holes and shall be as manufactured by
Neenah Foundry, No. R-1772-C or approved equal. All frames and lids shall be
products of one manufacturer.
   (D)   Steps for manholes shall be made from steel reinforcing rod
encapsulated in a copolymer polypropylene resin as manufacturer by M.A.
Industries, Inc., Clay & Bailey Manufacturing Company or approved equal.
   (E)   Each manhole shall be core-drilled at the proper location where the
pipe enters the manhole. A flexible neoprene molded boot shall be installed to
secure the pipe. The boot shall be Kor-N-Seal as manufactured by National
Pollution Control Systems, Inc. or approved equal.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.099 EXECUTION.
   (A)   Provide all tools, labor and equipment necessary for the safe and
expeditious installation of all sanitary sewers, force mains, manholes, and
appurtenances as shown on the drawings and specified herein.
   (B)   Inspect sewer pipe, manhole sections and appurtenances prior to
installation and promptly remove damaged or unsuitable materials with new and
unused materials.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.100 INSTALLATION OF SEWER PIPE.
   (A)   Sewer pipe shall be laid uniformly to line and grade so that the
finished sewer will present a uniform bore.
   (B)   Set line and grade stakes for all gravity sewers at intervals not to
exceed 25 feet. Batter boards shall be opposite each grade stake and a minimum
of three boards shall be in place at all times during construction. The use of
laser beam and target for alignment and grade is preferred in lieu of batter
boards.
   (C)   Sewer pipe shall be laid progressively upgrade with bell upstream in a
manner to form close, concentric joints with smooth bottom inverts.
   (D)   After the joint is made, sufficient bedding material shall be placed
along each side of the pipe to prevent conditions that might tend to move the
pipe off line or grade.
   (E)   Installed piping systems shall be temporarily plugged at the end of
each day's work, or other interruption of progress on a given line. Plugging
shall be adequate to prevent entry of animals into the pipe or the entrance or
insertion of deleterious materials.
   (F)   Laterals shall be installed at a normal slope of one-quarter inch per
foot. Minimum slope shall be one-eighth inch per foot. Install a mechanical
plug at the end of each lateral and at the end of all sewer stubs. It shall be
the responsibility of the contractor to install the later at a depth to allow
each customer to connect to the end of the lateral.
   (G)   Install a treated two-by-four at the end of each sewer lateral for
marking. It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to protect these
markers.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.101 INSTALLATION OF MANHOLES.
   (A)   Manhole excavation shall be kept free from water during construction.
Space excavated below the depth required for the manhole base shall be refilled
with compacted sand or crushed stone.
   (B)   Manhole floors shall be formed with concrete to a depth of one-half
the incoming sewer size with the floor sloped to the sewer invert. Floors for
“straight through” manholes shall be formed by laying the pipe straight through
the manhole, pouring the concrete and then cutting out the top half of the
pipe. Floors shall be constructed as the manhole is being built and this
thickness is in addition to the eight-inch base required.
   (C)   Precast concrete risers and adjusting rings shall be used in such
combination that the top of the concentric cone section, when installed, will
be at proper elevation for the manhole frame. Concrete adjusting rings shall be
allowed up to a maximum of 12 inches height adjustment. Manholes needing more
than 12 inches adjustment shall have a concrete riser section installed to the
proper elevation.
   (D)   Manhole frames shall be brought to grade, centered and embedded in a
mastic bending course after the mortar bedding has set up. The inner face of
this mortar joint shall be trowel finished.
   (E)   Steps shall be built into all manholes four feet in depth or greater
and shall begin eight inches below the bottom of the chimney. Steps shall be
installed at 16 inches on center maximum.
   (F)   Precast concrete risers and cone sections shall be installed so that
the axis of the manhole is vertical. Gaskets for riser joints shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
   (G)   Unless otherwise indicated, set castings for manholes at finish grade
level.
   (H)   Remove all debris and excess soil from manhole after construction.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.102 SANITARY SEWER TESTING.
   (A)   Flush all piping systems with water to remove any debris prior to
testing. Water will be provided by the town.
   (B)   Gravity sewers.
      (1)   General. After backfill has been placed, the engineer will visually
inspect all gravity flow lines to check alignment and grade. All obstructions
shall be removed. Any sewer in which the direct light of a lamp cannot be
viewed in either direction between adjacent manholes shall be considered
unsatisfactory and shall be repaired by the contractor without additional
compensation.
      (2)   Tests. All sewer system piping for gravity flow shall be subjected
to .an air test rather than an infiltration or exhilaration tests. However,
infiltration and exhilaration test methods have been included if requested by
the engineer during construction. When leakage occurs in excess of the
specified limits, defective pipe or joints shall be located and repaired. The
contractor, at his or her own expense, shall remove and reconstruct, along with
retesting, as much of the original work as necessary to obtain a sewer test
within the allowable leakage limits.
         (a)   Air test. The sewer line to be tested shall be tested in
increments between manholes. The line shall be sealed at each end. The seal at
one end shall have an orifice through which to pass air into the pipe. An air
supply shall be connected to the orifice at one end of the line. The air supply
line shall contain an on/off gas valve and a pressure gauge having a range of
from 0 to 5 psi. The gauge shall have minimum divisions of 0.10 psi and shall
have an accuracy of plus or minus 0.04 psi.
         (b)   The pipeline under test shall be pressurized to 4 pig. The line
shall be allowed to stabilize between 4 pig and 3.5 pig for a period of no less
than five minutes. If necessary, air shall be added to the line to maintain the
pressure above 3.5 pig. After the stabilization period, the gas valve shall be
closed. When the line pressure drops to 3.5 pig, commence timing with a stop
watch. The stop watch shall be allowed to run until such time as the line
pressure drops to 2.5 .pig. Then the watch shall be stopped and the time lapse
compared with the allowable time lapse shown.
Pipe Diameter in Inches Minutes
Pipe Diameter in Inches Minutes
4                       2.0
6                       3.0
8                       4.0
10                      5.0
12                      5.5
15                      7.5
18                      8.5
21                      10.0
24                      11.5
 
         (c)   If the time lapse is greater than that specified, the section
undergoing tests shall have passed. If the time is less than that specified,
the line has not passed the test and the contractor shall be required to make
all repairs and retests. If the pipeline to be tested is beneath the ground
water level, the test pressure shall be increased .433 psi for each foot the
ground water level is above the crown of the pipe.
         (d)   Furnish all equipment and personnel required to make all tests
including pipe stoppers, air compressor, air storage tank, pressure regulating
valves, pressure gauges, stopwatch, and the like. Take precautions necessary,
including blocking of stoppers or plugs, to protect the safety of property and
personnel.
         (e)   Infiltration tests. When the groundwater level is four feet
above the top of the sewer, the infiltration test will consist of sealing off a
length of sewer and measuring the depth of flow over a measuring weir, or by
pumping the infiltrated water into containers for measurement. Tests shall be
conducted for a minimum of four hours. Infiltration leakage shall not exceed
200 gallons per 24hours per inch diameter, per mile of sewer.
         (f)   Exhilaration tests. When the groundwater level is below a point
four feet above the top of the pipe, the exfiltration test shall consist of
isolating the particular section and filing the water to a point four feet
above the ground water level in the upper manhole and allowing it to stand not
less than four hours. The section shall then be refilled with water up to the
original point and after two hours the drop in water surface shall be measured.
The computed leakage shall not exceed 200 gallons per inch diameter, per 24
hours, per mile of sewer.
      (3)   Deflection tests shall be performed on all flexible pipe after the
final backfill has been in place at least 30 days. No pipe shall exceed a
vertical deflection of 5%. The following are considered nonflexible pipes:
         (a)   Vitrified clay pipe;
         (b)   Concrete pipe;
         (c)   Ductile iron pipe;
         (d)   Cast iron pipe;
         (e)   Asbestos cement pipe.
   (C)   Force mains.
      (1)   General. All sewage force mains shall pass a hydrostatic pressure
test as specified. All buried piping with slip-type or mechanical joints shall
pass a leakage test. No leakage is allowed in exposed piping or buried piping
with flanged, threaded, welded or mechanical joints.
      (2)   Tests for exposed piping shall be made before covering and
insulation is placed and prior to concealment within the building construction.
      (3)   The pressure and leakage tests for buried piping shall be made
after all jointing operations and backfilling are completed, and concrete
reaction blocks and restraints have cured at least 14 days. Piping tested
before backfill is in place shall be retested after compacted backfill is
placed.
      (4)   Sections of piping between valves, and other short sections of line
may be isolated for testing. If shorter sections are tested, test plugs or
bulkheads required at the ends of the test section shall be furnished and
installed by the contractor, together with all anchors, braces, and other
devices required to withstand the hydrostatic pressure without imposing any
thrust on the pipeline. The contractor shall be solely responsible for any
damage which may result from the failure of test plugs or supports.
      (5)   Hydrostatic tests. Piping systems shall be slowly filed with water
and all air expelled from the pipe. Care shall be taken that all air valves are
installed and open in the section being filled, and that the rate of filling
does not exceed the venting capacity of the air valves. After the section of
line to be tested has been filled with water, the specified test pressure shall
be applied and maintained for a minimum period of two hours and for such
additional period necessary for the engineer to complete the inspection of the
line under test. If defects are noted, repairs shall be made and the test
repeated until all parts of the line withstand the test pressure. Hydrostatic
test pressures shall be 150% of design pressure, but not less than 150 psi.
Test duration shall be two hours.
      (6)   Leakage test. After the specified hydrostatic test has been
completed, the line shall be subjected to leakage test under a hydrostatic
pressure the same as the pressure specified for the hydrostatic test. The
pressure shall be maintained within a maximum variation of 5% during the entire
leakage test. Leakage measurements shall not be started until a constant test
pressure has been established. The line leakage shall be measured by means of
water meter installed on the supply side of the pressure pump, or method as
approved by the engineer.
         (a)   The tested section will not be accepted if it has a leakage rate
in excess of that rate determined by the formula:
 
L = 0.000135 ND(P) in which;
L =Maximum permissible leakage rate in gallons per hour throughout the entire
length of line being tested.
N =Number of gasketed joints (two for each flexible coupling joint) in the line
under test.
D =Nominal internal diameter (in inches) of the pipe.
P = The actual pressure in psig on all joints in the tested portion of the
line. This actual pressure shall be determined by finding the difference
between the average elevation of all tested pipe joints and the elevation of
the pressure gauge and adding the difference in elevation head to the required
pressure.
 
         (b)   Where the leakage rate exceeds the permissible maximum, the
contractor shall locate and repair leaking joints to the extent required to
reduce the total leakage to the required amount.
         (c)   All leaks discovered within one year from the date of final
acceptance of the work by the owner shall be located, repaired and retested by
the contractor, regardless of the total line leakage rate.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.103 MANHOLE VACUUM TESTING.
   (A)   A vacuum test shall be conducted on all manholes to ensure
watertightness and manhole integrity. Testing shall be in accordance with ASTM
C 1244.
   (B)   The equipment required to conduct a vacuum test on manholes includes
inflatable pipe plugs, test head, vacuum pump, flexible air hose and a vacuum
gage. The test equipment shall be capable of drawing a vacuum of ten inches of
mercury (Hg). The equipment shall be designed specifically for the purpose of
testing manholes and shall be as manufactured by P.A. Glazier, Inc.,
Worchester, Massachusetts, 10002 or approved equal.
   (C)   The procedure for conducting an air test on manholes shall be in
accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Each manhole shall be tested immediately after assembly and prior
to setting the casting or backfilling around the structure;
      (2)   All lift holes shall be plugged with non-shrink grout;
      (3)   All pipes entering the manhole shall be securely plugged and
adequately braced against the inside of the manhole to prevent being drawn out
of the pipe;
      (4)   The test head shall be placed on the inside of the cone section and
sealed with an inflatable seal;
      (5)   A vacuum of ten inches of mercury (Hg) shall be drawn and the
vacuum pump shut off. With the valves closed, the time shall be measured for
the vacuum to drop to nine inches. The manhole shall pass if the time is
greater than the following:
 
Manhole Size Minimum Test Time
48 inches    60 seconds
60 inches    75 seconds
72 inches    90 seconds
 
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
STORM SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 50.115 SCOPE.
   (A)   Private developers shall submit to the Sheridan Planning Commission a
complete set of plans and specifications for a proposed subdivision or planned
development. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Indiana. The developers shall also submit a
copy of the construction permit for storm sewers issued by any state, county or
local highway department that require permits for the construction of the
sewer.
   (B)   Plans shall show locations of all storm sewers, manholes, catch
basins, inlets and appurtenances, and shall identify locations in public right-
of-way or utility easements for the facilities.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.116 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   (A)   Notify the town a minimum of 24 hours before any testing is to be
conducted. A representative of the Sheridan Sewer Department must be present to
witness all tests.
   (B)   Submit copies of all test results to the town.
   (C)   Submit one complete set of as-built drawings of the storm sewers,
manholes, inlets and appurtenances as installed. These drawings shall be
submitted to the town at the completion of the installation and testing of the
sewer, and the acceptance of the facilities.
      (1)   All manholes and laterals shall be located and references to three
permanent surface improvements.
      (2)   The pipe size, pipe material, and the elevations of castings and
inverts of all manholes and inlets shall be shown on as-built drawings.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.117 STANDARDS.
   Meet and comply with all applicable ASTM and AASHTO Standards.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.118 PRODUCTS.
   All pipe, fittings, manholes, catch basins, inlets and appurtenances
proposed as shown on the submitted drawings shall be new and unused. Each
length of pipe shall be plainly stamped, marked or color coded to an acceptable
standard as to weight, class, and type thereof, and the manufacturer’s
trademark or name.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.119 CORRUGATED METAL PIPE (CMP).
   Corrugated metal pipe and fitting shall conform to AASHTO M-36 and INDOT
Section 908.02. Corrugation shall be helical with continuous lock and welded
seam. Band couplers shall have corrugations that mesh with the corrugations of
the pipe.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.120 REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE (RCP).
   (A)   Concrete sewer pipe 12 inches in diameter and larger shall conform to
ASTM C-76 and shall be Class IV, Wall B unless noted otherwise.
   (B)   Pipe joints shall be either bell and spigot with rubber “O”-ring, or
tongue and groove with compression type rubber gasket. Rubber gasket shall
conform to ASTM C-443.
   (C)   Wye and tee branches shall be fabricated branches or provided by
coring pipe and securing branch with rubber boot.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.121 HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE PIPE (HDPE).
   (A)   Corrugated high density polyethylene shall be in accordance with
AASHTO M294 Type S. Pipe manufactured under this specification shall have a
minimum cell class of 324420C in accordance with ASTM D3350. The flexibility
factor of HPDE pipe shall not exceed 0.095. Pipe shall have a minimum pipe
stiffness of 46 psi.
   (B)   High density polyethylene pipe shall possess male and female pipe ends
which allow the construction of overlapping, gasketed pipe joints, in
conformance with the requirements of ASTM D3212. The gasket material shall
conform to all requirements of ASTM F477.
   (C)   Manufactured fittings, such as wyes, tees, elbows or adapters, will
not be accepted for use in place of precast storm sewer manholes, inlets or
catch basins.
   (D)   High density polyethylene pipe possessing the following defects may be
rejected for installation: variations from straight centerline; elliptical
shape in round pipe; illegible markings as required herein; deep or excessive
gouges or scratches on the pipe wall; fractures, punctures, or cracks passing
through the pipe wall; damaged or cracked ends where such damage would prevent
making a satisfactory joint.
   (E)   For high density polyethylene pipe products, each length of pipe shall
be clearly marked with the following information as a minimum: manufacturer’s
name or identification symbol; nominal pipe size; and product/extrusion code.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.122 POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE (PVC).
   (A)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) profile wall gravity flow storm sewer pipe
shall be the bell and spigot type with elastomeric seal joints and smooth inner
walls in accordance with ASTM F794 or AASHTO M304, except a minimum cell class
of 12454C as set forth by ASTM D17S4 shall be required. Pipe manufactured in
accordance with ASTM F794 or AASHTO M304 shall have a minimum pipe stiffness of
46 psi.
   (B)   Flexible, gasketed joints shall be compression type so that when
assembled, the gasket inside the bell is compressed radially on the pipe spigot
to form a soil tight seal. The assembly of joints shall be in accordance with
the pipe manufacturer's recommendations, and ASTM D3212. The gasket shall
conform to the requirements of ASTM F477. All field cutting of pipe shall be
completed in a neat, trim manner using a hand or power saw.
   (C)   Polyvinyl chloride pipe possessing the following defects may be
rejected for installation: variation from straight centerline; elliptical shape
in a round pipe; illegible markings as required herein; deep or excessive
gouges or scratches of the pipe wall; fractures, punctures or cracks passing
through the pipe wall; damaged or cracked ends where such damage would prevent
making a satisfactory joint.
   (D)   For polyvinyl chloride pipe products, each length of pipe must be
marked with the following information as a minimum: name of manufacturer,
tradename or trademark, nominal pipe size, production/extrusion code, material
and cell class designation and ASTM designation.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.123 PERFORATED CORRUGATED PLASTIC PIPE (PCPP).
   (A)   Plastic pipe with six-inch diameter shall be perforated polyethylene
pipe conforming to AASHTO M-252 for underdrain pipe.
   (B)   Fabricated branches shall be polyethylene conforming to AASHTO M-252.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.124 CATCH BASINS, INLETS, AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   Catch basins and inlets shall be precast concrete structures, or may
be constructed of masonry units.
   (B)   Inlet frames and covers shall be products of one manufacturer.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.125 MANHOLES AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   Manholes shall be precast concrete manhole risers with eight-inch
precast concrete base and shall meet the requirements of ASTM C-478. Precast
concrete manhole cones shall be of concentric cone type and meet the
requirements of ASTM C-478.
   (B)   Joints for manhole sections will have a flexible butyl rubber joint
gasket conforming to ASTM C-443.
   (C)   Manhole frames and covers shall have machined horizontal and vertical
bearing surfaces. All frames and covers shall be products of one manufacturer.
   (D)   Steps for manholes shall be polypropylene, polypropylene-coated steel
reinforcing, or an approved non-corrosive fiberglass material. The copolymer
polypropylene shall meet the requirements of ASTM D-4101 reinforced with
deformed three-eighths-inch minimum diameter reinforcing steel conforming to
the requirements of ASTM A-615, Grade 60. Non-coated cast iron steps are not
acceptable.
   (E)   Each manhole shall be core drilled at the proper location where the
pipe enters the manhole. A flexible neoprene molded boot shall be installed to
secure the pipe. The boot shall be Kor-N-Seal as manufactured by National
Pollution Control Systems, Inc., or approved equal.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.126 EXECUTION.
   (A)   Provide all tools, labor and equipment necessary for the safe and
expeditious installation of all storm sewers, inlets, and appurtenances as
specified herein.
   (B)   Inspect sewer pipe, inlet sections and appurtenances prior to
installation and promptly remove damaged or unsuitable materials with new and
unused materials.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.127 INSTALLATION OF SEWER PIPE.
   (A)   Sewer pipe shall be laid uniformly to line and grade so that the
finished sewer will present a uniform bore.
   (B)   Set line and grade stakes for all gravity sewers at intervals not to
exceed 25 feet. Batter boards shall be opposite each grade stake and a minimum
of three boards shall be in place at all times during construction. The use of
laser beam and target for alignment and grade is preferred in lieu of batter
boards.
   (C)   Sewer pipe shall be laid progressively upgrade in a manner to form
close, concentric joints with smooth bottom inverts.
   (D)   After the joint is made, sufficient bedding material shall be placed
along each side of the pipe to prevent conditions that might tend to move the
pipe off line or grade.
   (E)   Installed piping systems shall be temporarily plugged at the end of
each day’s work, or other interruption of progress on a given line. Plugging
shall be installed in a manner satisfactory to the engineer, and it shall be
adequate to prevent entry of animals into the pipe or the entrance or insertion
of deleterious materials.
(Ord. 2003-8-2, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.980 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.981 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance,
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
50.983 and
50.984 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.982 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least seven days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served
on any authorized representative of the user as defined in this chapter. A show
cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.983 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time or may require the user to submit a detailed compliance schedule outlining
specific actions to be taken by the user with specific milestone dates. If the
user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.984 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.985 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user as defined in §
50.999. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 25% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 10% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 20 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter, in the event the user’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.986 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream/or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
50.987 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §
50.982 or 50.987.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.987 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to other provisions contained in this chapter, any user
who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
50.982 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.990 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Hamilton County Court through
the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by
this chapter on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.991 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town as defined in §
50.999. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the town.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.992 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be tried as allowed
under Indiana law.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall be tried as allowed
under Indiana law. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of
action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall be tried as allowed under Indiana law.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.993 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
50.008 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than
$1,000 per day, per violation, in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(l)(vi)(A) but
not more than $2,500 per day, per violation for a first violation nor more than
$7,500 per day, per violation for subsequent violations, in accordance with IC
36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B). Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.005 through
50.008,
50.020 through
50.028 and
50.040 through
50.059 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
(‘85 Code, §§ 4-5-35, 4-5-36)
   (C)   A person who violates §
50.009 commits an ordinance violation. A judgment of up to $2,500 may be
entered against a person who commits a violation under §
50.009. Each day of violation constitutes a distinct and separate violation.
(Ord. 1983-8, passed 11-8-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C17, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2000-
1-2, passed 1-11-00; Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
APPENDIX: SANITARY SEWER DIAGRAMS
   
A.1   Standard sanitary sewer manhole
   
A.2   Precast concrete adjusting ring detail
   
A.3   Standard sanitary sewer outside drop manhole detail
   
A.4   Standard sanitary sewer inside drop manhole detail
   
A.5   Service lateral connection detail
   
A.6   Sanitary lateral for deep sewers
   
A.7   Sanitary lateral for shallow sewers
   
A.8   Type 1 cleanout detail
   
A.9   Pavement repair details
   
A.10   Casing pipe detail
   
A.11   Casing spacer detail
   
A.12   Minimum crossover and separation requirements for sewer and water mains
A.1   STANDARD SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.2   PRECAST CONCRETE ADJUSTING RING DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.3   STANDARD SANITARY SEWER OUTSIDE DROP MANHOLE DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1237.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.4   STANDARD SANITARY SEWER INSIDE DROP MANHOLE DETAIL.
   [No image.]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.5   SERVICE LATERAL CONNECTION DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.6   SANITARY LATERAL FOR DEEP SEWERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1241.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.7   SANITARY LATERAL FOR SHALLOW SEWERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1243.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.8   TYPE I CLEANOUT DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1245.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.9   PAVEMENT REPAIR DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1247.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.10   CASING PIPE DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1249.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.11   CASING SPACER DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
A.12   MINIMUM CROSSOVER AND SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER AND WATER MAINS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.png]
(Am. Ord. 2013-3-1, passed 3-28-13)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Combined sewer and water billings
   
51.02   Termination of public services for nonpayment authorized
Rates; Charges; Fees
   
51.10   Applicability of rates and charges
   
51.11   Connection charge
   
51.12   Minimum monthly charge
   
51.13   Metered water service
   
51.14   Fire protection service annual rates
   
51.15   Collection and deferred payment charges
   
51.16   Bad check charge
   
51.17   Reconnection charges when service disconnected for nonpayment of bills
and other violations
   
51.18   Fee for resumption of discontinued water service
   
51.19   Fee for meter tests supervised by Public Service Commission
   
51.20   Rates and charges to provide reasonable return on investment
Water Main Construction Standards
   
51.30   General
   
51.31   Quality assurance
   
51.32   Standards
   
51.33   Products
   
51.34   Water main and pipe fittings
   
51.35   Valves
   
51.36   Valve boxes
   
51.37   Fire hydrants
   
51.38   Tracer wire
   
51.39   Service and meter pits
   
51.40   Execution
   
51.41   Laying of water mains
   
51.42   Installation of appurtenances
   
51.43   Testing
   
51.44   Service connections
Water Conservation
   
51.50   Water conservation
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.60   Definition
   
51.61   Cross-connections prohibited
   
51.62   Inspections
   
51.63   Right of entry
   
51.64   Violation; discontinuation of water service
   
51.65   Emergencies
   
51.66   Backflow preventers – hazardous users
   
51.67   Backflow preventers – installation
   
51.68   Effect on state legislation
   
51.69   Backflow preventers – required for other users
   
51.70   Backflow preventers – notice of required installation
 
   
Appendix: Water main diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 COMBINED SEWER AND WATER BILLINGS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to issue combined billings to users of the
town's sewer and water systems.
('85 Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 1984-5, passed 10-9-84)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 50
§ 51.02 TERMINATION OF PUBLIC SERVICES FOR NONPAYMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Sheridan Water Works (“SWW”) is hereby directed to develop a
written policy for the delivery and collection of invoices and payments for the
services provided and contracted for by the town and billed by the SWW. The
policy shall be delivered with each invoice sent to every recipient of services
in the normal course of billing.
   (B)   This notice shall detail the policy that the SWW is authorized to
terminate services should the entire invoice not be promptly paid within the
time limits stated.
   (C)   This section is not intended to create a hardship or unnecessary
burden and shall not be construed as to limit the ability of the Superintendent
of the SWW to exercise discretion as needed in individual matters as they may
arise or may become necessary.
   (D)   If a user disputes the appropriateness of a disconnect notice issued
to the user, the user has the right to request a hearing before the Sheridan
Board of Public Works during which the user may be represented in person and by
counsel or by any other person of the user’s choosing. At this hearing, the
user may present orally or in writing the user’s complaint and contentions. The
hearing must be requested in writing within seven business days after the date
of the disconnect notice by submission to: Town of Sheridan, Board of Public
Works, 506 South Main Street, Sheridan, Indiana 46069.
(Ord. 2010-9-1, passed 10-14-10; Am. Ord. 2014-5-1, passed 5-22-14)
RATES; CHARGES; FEES
§ 51.10 APPLICABILITY OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates for water service, as set forth in this chapter are available to
any water customer, provided, the applicant must be located on water utility
distribution lines suitable for supplying the service requested in the town.
Copies of the schedule of all rates and charges shall be maintained in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
('85 Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 51.11 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   Each new user at the time he or she is connected with the water works system
shall pay a charge to cover the costs of the connection, exclusive of the costs
of the meter.
   (A)   (1)   The charge for a 3/4-inch tap shall be $1,500.
      (2)   The charge for 1 inch water service shall be $1,750.
      (3)   The charge for 1 1/2-inch water service shall be $2,000.
      (4)   The charge for 2-inch water service shall be $2,500.
      (5)   The charge for 3-inch water service shall be $3,750.
      (6)   The charge for 4-inch water service shall be $5,000.
      (7)   The charge for 6-inch water service shall be $7,500.
      (8)   The charge for 8-inch water service shall be $10,000.
   (B)   The charge for a tap larger than the 3/4-inch tap, unless otherwise
specified above, shall be the actual costs of labor, materials (exclusive of
the meter), power machinery, transportation and overhead incurred for
installing the tap but shall not be less than the charge for a 3/4-inch meter
tap.
([Amended 12-27-85]; Am. Ord. 96-10-2, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. passed 5-13-
10; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-11; Am. Ord. 2014-8-2, passed 9-25-14)
§ 51.12 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   Each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the size of
the meter installed for which the user will be entitled to the quantity of
water set out in the schedule of rates set forth in §
51.13.
Minimum Charge
Size of Meter (in inches) Gallons Allowed Monthly Rate Effective January 1,
                                          2012
Minimum Charge
Size of Meter (in inches) Gallons Allowed Monthly Rate Effective January 1,
                                          2012
5/8                       2,604           $ 21.46
3/4                       3,295           $ 27.15
1                         5,011           $ 41.28
1 1/4                     6,751           $ 54.35
1 1/2                     8,762           $ 69.45
2                         12,965          $ 101.02
3                         18,008          $ 138.89
4                         37,117          $ 271.61
 
('85 Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84; [Amended 12-27-85]; Am. Ord.
2000-10-2, passed 11-1-00; Am. Ord. 2010-10-1, passed 11-18-10)
§ 51.13 METERED WATER SERVICE.
   There shall be and there are hereby established, for the use of and service
rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and charges,
based on the use of water supplied by the waterworks system.
Monthly Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Metered consumption per month (in gallons) Rates effective January 1, 2012
Monthly Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Metered consumption per month (in gallons) Rates effective January 1, 2012
First 5,000                                $ 8.24
Next 15,000                                $ 7.51
Next 30,000                                $ 6.88
Next 50,000                                $ 5.45
Next 100,000                               $ 3.39
Next 800,000                               $ 2.33
Over 1,000,000                             $ 1.86
 
('85 Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84; [Amended 12-27-85]; Am. Ord.
2000-10-2, passed 11-1-00; Am. Ord. 2010-10-1, passed 11-18-10)
§ 51.14 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE ANNUAL RATES.
   For water made available to fire hydrants or other fire protection systems,
each user maintaining a hydrant or system shall pay an annual charge, as
follows:
Annual Fees, Effective January 1, 2012
Annual Fees, Effective January 1, 2012
Hydrants
Private hydrants, each $ 1,029.98
Automatic sprinklers
2-inch connection      $ 154.80
3-inch connection      $ 348.14
4-inch connection      $ 618.88
6-inch connection      $ 1,392.27
8-inch connection      $ 2,475.57
10-inch connection     $ 3,867.50
12-inch connection     $ 5,569.38
 
 
Public Fire Protection Surcharge, Per Month
Meter size (inches) Rate effective January 1, 2012
                    $ 8.15
1                   $ 12.05
1½                 $ 14.05
2                   $ 24.00
3                   $ 87.80
 
('85 Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84; [Amended 12-27-85]; Am. Ord.
2000-10-2, passed 11-1-00; Am. Ord. 2006-3-1, passed 3-28-06; Am. Ord. 2010-10-
1, passed 11-18-10)
§ 51.15 COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days of the due date as
stated on such bills shall be subject to the collection or deferred payment
charge of 10% of that part of the delinquent account which does not exceed $3
plus 3% of any delinquent amount in excess of $3.
([Amended 12-27-85])
§ 51.16 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   There shall be a charge of $7.50 for each customer's check returned by a
bank for insufficient funds.
([Amended 12-27-85])
§ 51.17 RECONNECTION CHARGES WHEN SERVICE DISCONNECTED FOR NONPAYMENT OF BILLS
AND OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When water service has been disconnected for nonpayment of bills or
other violations, the following reconnection charge, as applicable, must be
paid before service is reconnected.
 
Time of Reconnection         Charge
During normal business hours $20
After normal business hours  25
 
   (B)   There shall be a connection charge of $250 for a ¾-inch service. This
charge includes the meter.
   (C)   There shall be a charge of $20 for each customer check returned by a
back for insufficient funds.
('85 Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84; Am. Ord. 2000-10-2, passed
11-1-00)
§ 51.18 FEE FOR RESUMPTION OF DISCONTINUED WATER SERVICE.
   When water service has been discontinued at the request of a customer, there
shall be a $5 service charge for resuming the service.
('85 Code, § 4-3-7) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84)
§ 51.19 FEE FOR METER TESTS SUPERVISED BY PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
   For customer-requested meter tests to be supervised by the Public Service
Commission, a fee shall be paid upon application to the Commission as follows:
 
Size of Meter       Fee
3/4-inch or smaller $ 8
1 to 2 inches       16
More than 2 inches  Actual cost
 
('85 Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 5-22-84)
§ 51.20 RATES AND CHARGES TO PROVIDE REASONABLE RETURN ON INVESTMENT.
   It is hereby found and declared by the Town Council that rates and charges
assessed for water service by the town's waterworks should provide the town
with a reasonable return on its investment in the waterworks and water
distribution system. In accordance with IC 8-1.5-3-8(f), the Public Service
Commission of the state shall consider the intent of this section when
reviewing and approving any future rate requests of the town's waterworks. This
section refers only to rates established after September 16, 1985.
('85 Code, § 4-3-9)
WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 51.30 GENERAL.
   (A)   Private developers shall submit to the Sheridan Planning Commission a
complete set of plans and specifications for a proposed subdivision or planned
development. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Indiana. Developers shall also submit a copy
of the construction permit for water mains issued by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM), plus any state, county or local highway
permits required.
   (B)   Plans shall show locations of all water mains, valves and hydrants,
and shall identify these locations in public right-of-way or utility easements
for the facilities. Minimum water main size shall be six inches in diameter.
Hydrants shall be located at 500 feet on center, or as directed by the Sheridan
Fire Department. Valves shall be located at 500 feet on center, or as directed
by the Sheridan Water Works.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.31 QUALITY ASSURANCE.
   (A)   Notify the town a minimum of 24 hours before any testing is to be
conducted. A representative of the Sheridan Water Works must be present to
witness all tests.
   (B)   Disinfect and test all water mains installed. Disinfection shall be in
accordance with AWWA C 651-92.
   (C)   Conduct pressure and leakage tests in accordance with AWWA C 605.
   (D)   Collect and submit samples of water from water mains installed after
the water mains have been disinfected. Samples shall be submitted to a state
approved certified laboratory for bacteriological analysis. Copies of test
results are to be submitted to the town.
   (E)   Locate and repair leaks on any water mains installed that may occur
within the one-year warranty period at no cost to the town.
   (F)   Submit one complete set of as-built drawings of the water mains and
appurtenances as installed. These drawings shall be submitted to the town at
the completion of the installation and testing of the mains, and the acceptance
of the facilities.
      (1)   All valves shall be located and references to three permanent
surface improvements.
      (2)    All fittings (tees, bends, crossed plugs, caps, etc.) shall be
located and references to three permanent surface improvements.
      (3)   All water meter pits and vaults shall be located and referenced to
the water main.
      (4)    All water mains shall be located and referenced to the centerline
of the road or street at 500 foot minimum intervals.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.32 STANDARDS.
   Meet and comply with all applicable AWWA, ASTM and ANSI Standards.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.33 PRODUCTS.
   All pipe, fittings, valves, hydrants, and appurtenances proposed as shown on
the submitted drawings shall be new and unused.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.34 WATER MAIN PIPE AND FITTINGS.
   (A)   Ductile iron (D.I.) pipe shall be centrifugally cast in metal or
sandlined molds and shall conform to ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151 latest edition.
Pipe shall be designed for a minimum of 350 psi rated water working pressure.
Pipe joints shall be push-on type and conform to ANSI A21.11/AWWA C 111 unless
otherwise noted on the drawings. Each length of pipe shall be marked to show
manufacturer's name or trademark, pipe class, year of manufacture conforming to
ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151.
   (B)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (steel pipe O.D.) shall conform to ANSI/
ASTM D 2241 and have standard dimension ratio (SDR) 21 for Class 200 pipe PVC
pipe materials shall conform to ASTM D 1784, Type 1, Grade 1, 2000 psi design
stress. Pipe joints shall be single-gasket bell and spigot type, the bells
being formed integrally with the pipe. PVC pipe joint gaskets shall conform to
ASTM D 3139.
   (C)   Fittings shall be mechanical joint cast iron or ductile iron
conforming to ANSI A21.53/AWWA C 153 and ANSI A21.4/AWWA C 104. Restrained
joints may be used instead of mechanical joints and thrust blocking, and shall
be U.S. Pipe's FIELD LOK Gasket Joint Restraint System or Meg-A-Lug as
manufactured by EBAA Iron for D.I. Pipe, and Grip Ring manufactured by ROMEX
Industries or Meg-A-Lug manufactured by EBAA Iron for PVC Pipe.
   (D)   All D.I. pipe and fittings shall have a standard thickness cement
mortar lining as specified in ANSI A21.4/AWWA C 104 and a bituminous seal
outside coating as specified in ANSI A21.51/AWWA C 151.
   (E)   Gaskets for mechanical joints and push-on joints shall conform to ANSI
A21.11/AWWA C 111. Gaskets for restrained joint pipe installed in steel casing
shall be FIELD LOK Gasket Joint Restraint System as manufactured by U.S. Pipe,
or approved equal.
   (F)   Nuts and bolts shall be high strength, heat-treated cast iron. Nuts
shall be hexagon, bolts shall be tee head and shall conform to ANSI A21.11/AWWA
C 111.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.35 VALVES.
   (A)   Gate valves shall conform to AWWA C 509 for resilient seated gate
valves and shall have mechanical joint ends. Valves shall be iron body with
bronze stem nuts, glands and bushings, and shall be non-rising stem type with
O-ring packing. Valves shall open counterclockwise (left) and have a two-inch
operating nut. Valves shall be as manufactured by Mueller Company or approved
equal.
   (B)   Tapping valves shall conform to AWWA C 500 and shall be iron body,
non-rising stem gate valves. Valve gates, gate rings and body-seat rings shall
be oversized to permit entry and exit of tapping machine cutters. Valve end
connecting to tapping sleeve shall have a flange for bolting to the sleeve. The
flange shall have a tongue, which fits a recess in the tapping sleeve. Valve
end connecting to plain end of water main pipe or adapter shall be mechanical
joint. Valves shall open counterclockwise (left) and have a two inch operating
nut. Mechanical joint tapping sleeves for tapping valves shall be cast iron or
ductile iron split sleeves with a flange end branch connection. The inside
diameter of the branch connection shall be oversized to permit entry and exit
of tapping machine cutters. Flange end shall have a recess to center the
tapping valve.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.36 VALVE BOXES.
   (A)   All buried valves shall be provided with adjustable valve boxes
approximately five inches in diameter with a minimum thickness of 3/16 inch and
constructed so that the removable cover will not be thrown out by travel over
it.
   (B)   All valve boxes shall be cast iron, extension type with slide or screw
type adjustment to permit movement of the top section without transmitting
forces onto the valve body.
   (C)   The valve box shall rest on brick or masonry units and be centered
over the valve, and the top of the section shall be approximately on line with
nut at top of valve stem. The entire assembly shall be plumb.
   (D)   Covers for valve boxes on water service valves shall be marked
"WATER."
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.37 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Type "H-3" fire hydrants shall be dry barrel, compression shutoff,
traffic model hydrants conforming to AWWA C 502. Main valve opening shall be 5
¼ inch and inlet shall be six inch mechanical joint. Each hydrant shall have
two 2½ inch hose nozzles and one 4½ inch pumper nozzle. Nozzle threads and
operating direction shall be consistent with existing fire hydrants in the
distribution system. Hydrants shall be as manufactured by Mueller or approved
equal.
   (B)   Auxiliary gate valves shall be installed on every hydrant lead and
shall include a six inch valve and box for standard hydrants. See §§
51.35 and
51.36.
   (C)   Each hydrant shall have one shop coat and one field coat of a suitable
exterior enamel paint of a color selected by the owner.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.38 TRACER WIRE.
   Tracer wire shall be 12 gauge AWG copper wire. Splices and branch
connections shall be made with 12 AWG splice kits suitable for underground
installation. Remove ½ inch of insulation from wire. Connect wires using a
split bolt connector or solder. Seal connection epoxy contained in splice kit
and wrap with tape.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.39 SERVICE AND METER PITS.
   (A)   Saddles shall be cast from 85-5-5 waterworks brass and shall be
manufactured and tested in accordance with all applicable parts of ANSI/AWWA C
800. Saddles shall be manufactured by Mueller Company series 13000, or approved
equal.
   (B)    Corporation stops shall be 85-5-5 waterworks brass and shall be
manufactured and tested in accordance with all applicable parts of ANSI/AWWA C
800. Stops shall be manufactured by Mueller Company Model H 15000, or approved
equal.
   (C)    Service lines installed under state highways shall be seamless
annealed Type K copper tubing for direct burial. All other service lines shall
be ¾ inches or one inch polyethylene (PE) tubing conforming to ASTM D 2737,
rated to match the class of water main installed.
   (D)   Meter boxes shall be 18 inches in diameter, 30 inch depth Ribox Brand
meter pit with a Mueller Company 18 inch meter box cover Model No. H10816, or
approved equal. Pentagon bolts for meter cover shall be 1-1/32 inch.
   (E)   Iron meter yokes shall be as manufactured by Mueller Company, Catalog
No. H 5010P with stabilizing prongs to support yoke on ¾ inch iron pipe stakes.
   (F)   Dual check valves shall be angle meter valves, bronze body, acetal
plastic dual poppet assemblies with rubber gasket and stainless steel springs,
as manufactured by Mueller Co., Model H 14245, or approved equal.
   (G)   Angle ball valves shall be bronze body with double O-ring seals as
manufactured by Mueller Company, Model B 24264, or approved equal.
   (H)   It shall be illegal for any person to enter any meter pit for any
reason, except town employees. Any person who enters a meter pit shall be fined
not less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.40 EXECUTION.
   (A)   Install all water mains, fittings, valves, hydrants, casings and
appurtenances as shown on the drawings and as specified. No pipe shall be
installed when trench conditions are unsuitable.
   (B)   Inspect water mains, fittings, valves, hydrants and appurtenances
prior to installation and promptly remove damaged or unsuitable materials from
the job site. Replace damaged or unsuitable materials with new and unused
materials.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.41 LAYING OF WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Provide all tools, labor and equipment necessary for the safe and
expeditious installation of water mains and appurtenances. Install water mains
to the lines shown on the drawings, except as specified in this section.
Install fittings, valves and hydrants in the locations shown on the drawings.
   (B)   Water mains installed parallel to existing sanitary sewers or sewage
force mains shall have a minimum horizontal separation of ten feet measured
from edge of pipe to edge of pipe. Where local conditions prevent this
separation, water mains shall be installed with the bottom of the main at least
18 inches above the top of the sewer.
   (C)   Water mains crossing sanitary sewers or sewage force mains shall have
a minimum vertical separation of 18 inches measured edge to edge. This
separation shall apply whether the water main is above or below the sewer or
force main. Install water mains so that a full length of pipe is centered on
the sewer or force main. No water main shall pass through or come in contact
with any part of a sanitary sewer manhole.
   (D)   Water mains shall be installed with a minimum of 54 inches of cover.
   (E)   Installation of water mains shall conform to manufacturer's
recommendations.
   (F)   Trenches shall be excavated to a width which will provide adequate
working space for proper pipe installation, jointing and embedment. Shape the
bottom of the trench to give uniform circumferential support to the lower
quarter of each pipe. Pipe shall be laid with bell ends facing in the direction
of laying.
   (G)   Lower pipe, fittings, valves and hydrants into the trench by hand, by
means of hoists or ropes, or by other suitable tools or equipment which will
not damage materials, coatings or linings. Do not drop or dump pipe, fittings,
valves or hydrants into the trench.
   (H)   As each length of pipe is installed, joint the pipe to the previously
installed pipe. Bring the pipe to the correct line and grade and secure in
place with bedding tamped under and around each side of the pipe. Backfill
material shall be deposited and compacted uniformly and simultaneously on each
side of the pipe to prevent lateral displacement.
   (I)   Wherever it is necessary to deflect pipe from a straight line in
either a vertical or horizontal plane, the amount of deflection allowed shall
not exceed that required by the pipe specifications. If the alignment requires
joint deflections in excess of the allowable, furnish and install fittings or a
sufficient number of shorter lengths of pipe.
   (J)   The cutting of pipe shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner
without damage to PVC pipe or to the cement lining of D.I. pipe. Use a cutting
machine so as to leave smooth end at right angles to the axis of the pipe.
Flame cutting by use of an oxyacetylene torch shall not be allowed on ductile
iron pipe. Bevel the edges of all pipe after cutting.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.42 INSTALLATION OF APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Clean the interiors of all fittings, valves and hydrants of foreign
matter prior to installation. Inspect valves and hydrants in open and closed
positions to insure all parts are in working condition.
   (B)   Provide adequate blocking or thrust restraint for all fittings such as
bends, tees and plugs. Provide one full length of pipe on each side of all
fittings. Concrete shall be placed between fitting and solid trench wall where
shown on the drawings. Concrete blocking shall be minimum 2,000 psi and shall
not cover bolted glands. Where solid trench wall conditions are not present,
fittings shall be tied to the next full joint in each direction by use of tie
rods or fittings with integral cast flanges or set screw devices.
   (C)   Valves shall be set vertically and bedded solidly on trench bottom.
Valve boxes shall be set plumb and centered over operating nut. Tamp backfill
on all sides of each valve box to the undisturbed trench face. Leave valve box
flush with finish grade and readjust as necessary until final settling or
paving is complete.
   (D)   Hydrants shall be set plumb with the pumper nozzle facing the street.
The centerline of hydrant outlet nozzles shall be not less than 18 inches nor
more than 20 inches above finish grade. Provide hydrant extensions where
required to obtain proper elevation. Hydrants shall be rigidly blocked and
braced against thrust. Provide at least eight inches of washed coarse gravel
two feet in diameter at hydrant shoe to insure proper drainage of hydrant
barrel. Compact backfill around each hydrant to finish grade. Furnish and
install a gate valve and valve box on each hydrant branch connection.
   (E)   Tracer wire shall be installed on polyethylene service lines and PVC
pipe taped to pipe in 15 to 20 foot intervals. Do not wrap wire around pipe.
Install tracer wire boxes at intervals not to exceed 5,000 feet. Coil tracer
wire inside meter box with enough wire to extend two feet above the box.
Install tracer wire on outside of all valve boxes between collar and box. Seal
splices and branch connections with epoxy and wrap with tape. Install one pound
anodes every mile or less. Provide a continuity test on all tracer wire
installed.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.43 TESTING.
   (A)   Fill and sterilize all new water mains, services, leads and
appurtenances in accordance with AWWA C 651. Each section of water main shall
be complete and thrust block shall have been in place for not less than ten
days prior to being tested.
   (B)   Fill the new mains with water from the utility distribution system.
All air shall be expelled from the mains as they are filled. Tap the water main
at high points, if necessary, to assure removal of all air.
   (C)   The line shall be subjected to leakage test under a hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with AWWA C 605-94. The hydrostatic pressure shall be 1½
times the working pressure at the point of testing and shall be maintained
within a maximum variation of 5 psi for a period of two hours. Leakage
measurements shall not be started until a constant test pressure has been
established. The determination of actual leakage shall be made after the line
has been returned to the original test pressure at the end of the test
duration. The line leakage shall be measured by means of a water meter
installed on the supply side of the pressure pump, or method as approved by the
engineer.
      (1)   No pipe installation will be accepted if the leakage is greater
than that determined by the following formula:
         L = 0.000135ND(P)½
         in which L is the allowable leakage, in gallons per hour; N is the
number of joints in the length of pipeline tested; D is the nominal diameter of
the pipe, in inches; and P is the average test pressure during the leakage
test, in pounds per square inch gage.
      (2)   Where the leakage rate exceeds the permissible maximum, the
contractor shall locate and repair the leak. The leakage test shall be repeated
until the amount of leakage is less than the amount specified.
      (3)   All leaks discovered within one year from the date of final
acceptance of the work by the owner shall be repaired and retested by the
contractor.
   (D)   Flush all water mains and fire hydrants prior to disinfection. Flush
mains with a flushing velocity of at least 2½ feet per second. Flush water
mains and hydrants until the water discharged is clear.
   (E)   Disinfect all new water mains prior to placing the mains in service in
accordance with AWWA C 651-92.
   (F)   Before system is place in service, contractor shall obtain two
successive water samples 24 hours apart and have them tested for
bacteriological analysis by a state-approved certified laboratory. If samples
do not prove satisfactory, the system shall be rechlorinated and resampled
until safe water is obtained.
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
§ 51.44 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   After new mains have been tested, sampled and approved, contractor
shall install new brass saddles and corporation stops on the new main at the
locations of new service lines. Service lines to new meter settings shall be ¾
inch polyethylene resin plastic pipe (one inch for dual services) rated to meet
or exceed the pressure rating of the water main. Service lines installed under
state highways shall be Type K copper. A dual check valve shall be installed on
all new services.
   (B)   Where new meters are installed on opposite sides of road from new
mains, contractor shall push services under road to connect to meters. No open
cutting of road surfaces will be allowed for service lines.
   (C)   Meter pits shall be installed at right-of-way property lines, or as
directed by the Sheridan Water Works. Meter boxes shall be set plumb, and the
meter box cover shall be flush with the finish grade (one inch).
(Ord. 2002-5-1, passed 5-14-02)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.50 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, businesses and any other
entities as defined under Indiana law connected to the town public water system
either directly or indirectly (“users”).
   (B)   This subchapter shall allow the Council to declare a water
conservation emergency and establish the appropriate measures and the durations
of said measures.
   (C)   This subchapter shall allow for the following measures:
      (1)   Voluntary conservation. The Council may request that all users
utilize water conservation measures. The Council shall identify reasonable and
meaningful conservation techniques and provide such information to all users.
The Council is also authorized to implement conservation pricing and
prohibitions to encourage water conservation.
      (2)   Mandatory conservation. In the event of sever water shortages the
Council is authorized to limit all users from selected water uses subject to
reasonable terms, and conditions as the Council shall adopt.
      (3)   Rationing. In addition to the mandatory conservation measures for
users in the event of extreme water shortages as declared by the Council to the
following prohibitions:
         (a)   Users with odd numbered addresses shall only be allowed to water
lawns, landscaping or wash cars on odd numbered days of the month. Users with
even numbered addresses shall be so restricted on even numbered days of the
month.
         (b)   In extreme emergency situations, the Water Superintendent shall
have the authority to issue a total ban on watering of lawns, landscaping and
car washing until such time that the emergency situation ceases.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not be construed as to compromise the health,
safety and sanitary conditions of any user.
   (E)   (1)   Notice of the need for voluntary conservation shall be issued in
a local newspaper of general circulation or any other means acceptable by the
Council.
      (2)   Notice of the need for mandatory conservation or rationing of the
water supply shall be by first class United States mail or by door to door
distribution to each current user and by electronic and print media. Notice
shall be effective at the conclusion of door to door distribution or at noon of
the third day after depositing notice in the United State mail.
   (F)   Any user who violates division (C)(3)(a) or (b) of this section may be
punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 pursuant to IC 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
Each day shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to or in the
alternative to a fine, water service may be terminated for any user who
violates division (C) of this section.
(Ord. 2008-5-1, passed 5-15-08)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.61 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town
may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the Utility and by the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.62 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Utility’s Water Superintendent (“Water
Superintendent”) or his or her designated agent to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water system where cross-connections
with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections
and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be
established by the town.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.63 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town shall have
the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of the town for cross-
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.64 VIOLATION; DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   The Utility is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of this subchapter exists,
and to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be
discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee, or
occupants of the property or pr mises where a violation is found or suspected
to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross
connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed - - )
§ 51.65 EMERGENCIES.
   If it is deemed by the Utility that a cross-connection or an emergency
endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and
a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk of the town and
delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately discontinued.
The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of such
emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.66 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS – HAZARDOUS USERS.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users
install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in the
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.67 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS – INSTALLATION.
   The reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be installed
below ground level.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.68 EFFECT ON STATE LEGISLATION.
   This subchapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM Rule
327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.69 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS – REQUIRED FOR OTHER USERS.
   In addition to those facilities identified in IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10-4(c),
the following customer facilities need a backflow prevention device:
 
Carmel Turf Care, Inc.       200 Crossbow, Sheridan, EV 46069
                             2400 W St Rd 38, Sheridan, IN 46069
                             1012 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
US Filter Indianapolis Water 1014 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
                             1102 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
Rainmakers, Inc.             1108 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
                             1113 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
Greiner Brothers, Inc.       24185 Hinesley Road, Sheridan, IN 46069
Ryan Fire Protection         3942 W St Rd 47, Sheridan, IN 46069
Custom Touch Irrigation      1106 Maple Run Drive, Sheridan, IN 46069
 
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
§ 51.70 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS – NOTICE OF REQUIRED INSTALLATION.
   If, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Water Superintendent will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expenses, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Water Superintendent and shall have inspections and tests made
of such approved devices as required by the Water Superintendent and in
accordance with IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 4-10-17)
APPENDIX: WATER MAIN DIAGRAMS
   
A.   Typical hydrant assembly
   
B.   Valve detail
   
C.   Typical water main reaction blocking
   
D.   Cross tap details
   
E.   Pavement replacement detail
   
F.   Boring/casing detail
   
G.   Minimum crossover and separation requirements for sewer and water mains
   
H.   Meter setting detail
A.   TYPICAL HYDRANT ASSEMBLY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1271.png]
B.   VALVE DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.png]
C.   TYPICAL WATER MAIN REACTION BLOCKING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1275.png]
D.   CROSS TAP DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1277.png]
E.   PAVEMENT REPLACEMENT DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279.png]
F.   BORING/CASING DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1281.png]
G.   MINIMUM CROSSOVER AND SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWER AND WATER MAINS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1283.png]
H.   METER SETTING DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.png]
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Establishing rates for trash service
   
52.02   Solid waste collection and disposal regulations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Termination of public services for nonpayment authorized, see §
51.02
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHING RATES FOR TRASH SERVICE.
   (A)   After study and review of the needs of the public and the
recommendation of the town's financial consultant as well as the costs incurred
in the service to be provided to the public, the Council now finds that the
following rates shall be adopted as fair and equitable:
 
Year Base Rate with Escalator Administrative Fee Total
2022 $15.69                   $4.81              $20.50
2023 $16.16                   $5.34              $21.50
2024 $16.72                   $5.78              $22.50
2025 $17.31                   $6.19              $23.50
2026 $17.92                   $6.58              $24.50
 
   (B)   The Council also finds that the 2026 rate will continue to be applied
annually unless or until the Council amends this section.
(Ord. 2010-9-2, passed 10-14-10; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-18-22)
§ 52.02 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every bin shall be kept in sound condition, weather tight, and in good
repair, and shall not be in such a condition as to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   All residents of the town shall place bins containing solid waste at
the curb in front of the residence no earlier than 7:00 p.m. the evening before
the designated collection day and shall remove the bins no later than 7:00 p.m.
the day following the designated collection day.
   (C)   When not out for collection, all bins shall be kept within an enclosed
structure on the property (such as a garage or shed) or adjacent to the
residence and out of sight.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-18-22) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   For any violation of § 52.02, the owner of the property may be fined $25 per
violation.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-18-22)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER
Section
   
53.01   Stormwater Board
   
53.02   Abbreviations; definitions
   
53.03   Stormwater user fee
§ 53.01 STORMWATER BOARD.
   (A)   Established. The provisions of IC 8-1.5-5 are adopted and incorporated
in their entirety and the following entities established:
      (1)   A Department of Stormwater Management, which shall operate as a
separate department.
      (2)   A Stormwater Board which shall consist of members as set forth in
IC 8-1.5-5-4.
      (3)   A Stormwater Management District, extending to the corporate
boundaries of the town is established for the purpose of providing for the
collection and management of stormwater in a manner which protects the public
health and welfare, and for the purpose of assessing fees to pay for the cost
of stormwater facilities and services. As the corporate boundaries of the town
change, whether through annexation of otherwise, so shall the boundaries of the
District. The boundaries of the District may also be expanded through the
implementation of an inter-local agreement upon approval by the Town Council.
   (B)   Powers of the Stormwater Board. The Board shall have exclusive
jurisdiction over the collection and management of the stormwater within the
District and shall possess all the power and duties set forth in IC 8-1.5-3-
4 and 8-1.5-5-6.
(Ord. 2015-6-2, passed 6-25-15)
§ 53.02 ABBREVIATIONS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations and definitions
shall apply unless context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      ERU. Equivalent residential unit.
      ISA. Impervious surface area.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. The Department of Stormwater Management,
Town Council, Town of Sheridan Police, Street and Fire Departments or their
subcontractors shall be the agencies authorized to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
      BOARD. The Stormwater Board that oversees the Department of Stormwater
Management.
      CONTIGUOUS. Abutting or adjoining as in having a common boundary or edge.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains and roadways.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Stormwater Management of the Town of
Sheridan, Indiana.
      DISCHARGE. The flow of any substance into or from the stormwater system.
      DISTRICT. The Stormwater Management District of Sheridan, Indiana.
      EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). Established as the average impervious
surface area of a residential property or parcel of land in the District and is
equal to 3,400 square feet.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA (ISA). Hard surface areas that collect and
concentrates runoff from a property or parcel of land Impervious surface area
includes:
         (a)   Asphalt and concrete roadways, driveways and parking and storage
areas.
         (b)   Compacted gravel roadways, driveways, and parking and storage
areas.
         (c)   Rooftops, sidewalks, patio areas and pool decks.
         (d)   Other areas as deemed necessary and approved by the Board.
         (e)   Undisturbed land, tilled agricultural land, ponds, lawns and
fields are not considered IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA.
      MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY. A property or parcel that contains between two to
four units shall be considered a residential property and bills shall be sent
to the property owner on record. A property or parcel that contains five or
more units shall be classified as a non-residential property. User fees shall
be changed according to the total ISA located on the property, and bills shall
be sent to the property owner on record.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties or parcels located within the
town that are not residential property included, but not limited to:
         (a)   Agricultural property;
         (b)   Apartment property;
         (c)   Condominium property common area;
         (d)   Home owner association common area;
         (e)   Mobile home parks;
         (f)   Commercial property;
         (g)   Industrial property;
         (h)   Institutional property;
         (i)   Governmental property;
         (j)   Churches;
         (k)   Schools;
         (l)   Federal, state and local governmental property; and
         (m)   Any other property not mentioned in this or the list of
residential properties below.
      PROPERTY or PARCEL: Real property having a legal description that is
formally set forth in a document recorded in the Office of the Hamilton County
Recorder or some other similar official.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The individual, partnership, or corporation holding the
deed or record title to the property. A contract purchaser whose contract has
been recorded shall be considered the PROPERTY OWNER.
      RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate on which a building
or mobile home is situated which building contains a group of rooms forming a
single habitable dwelling unit with facilities which are used or are intended
to be used primarily for living sleeping, cooking and eating. See definitions
for MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTY and NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY above for further
information.
      RUN-OFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only stormwater,
surface run-off, street wash waters, and drainage, and not intended for
sanitary sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
      STORMWATER USER. The owner of a property or parcel within the town’s
corporate limits.
      STORMWATER USER FEE. A user fee imposed on users of the town’s stormwater
collection systems.
      TOWN. The municipal corporation of Sheridan, Indiana.
(Ord. 2015-6-2, passed 6-25-15)
§ 53.03 STORMWATER USER FEE.
   (A)   Severability.
      (1)   The invalidity of any section, sentence, clause, division, part or
provision of this chapter shall not affect the validity of any other section,
sentence clause, division, part or provision of this chapter, which can be
given meaning without such invalid part or parts.
      (2)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of the town in conflict
herewith are repealed.
   (B)   Stormwater user fee. A stormwater user fee shall be imposed on each
and every lot and parcel of land within the District which directly or
indirectly contributes to the stormwater system of the District, which charge
shall be assessed against the owner, who shall be considered the user for the
purposes of this chapter. This charge is deemed reasonable and is the minimum
necessary to pay for the repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation,
regulation and maintenance of the existing and future town stormwater system.
   (C)   Stormwater user fee establishment procedures.
      (1)   Each property or parcel assigned a separate tax identification
number shall be individually subject to a stormwater user fee.
      (2)   For each parcel that directly or indirectly contributes to the
stormwater system of the District, the stormwater user fee charge shall be
based on the presence of and/or measure of impervious surface area on the
parcel or property.
      (3)   Each parcel of property shall be classified as either residential
or non-residential. The Board is authorized to establish the classification of
an individual parcel or property based upon its primary use, and as defined in
§
53.02.
      (4)   This stormwater user fee is designed to recover the cost of
rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system and shall be
the basis for assessment of the District’s stormwater service charge. This rate
is further designed to maintain adequate reserves to provide for reasonably
expected variations in the cost of providing services, as well as variations in
the demand for services.
      (5)   This rate shall be evaluated annually by qualified professionals as
to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the District and an evaluation
report shall be provided to the Board no later than December 31 of each year.
   (D)   Stormwater user fee structure and calculations.
      (1)   For the purposes stated in this chapter, there is hereby assessed a
stormwater user fee to each user located within the District who contributes
directly or indirectly to the stormwater system, in the amount defined below.
      (2)   The District hereby establishes than an ERU shall be based upon
3,400 square feet of ISA.
      (3)    All properties having impervious surface area within the District
shall be assigned an ERU, or multiple thereof, with all properties having
impervious area assigned of at least one ERU.
      (4)   Residential properties. Residential properties shall be assessed a
monthly user fee of one ERU at a rate of $6.
      (5)   Non-residential properties. The total impervious surface area of
each non-residential property shall be individually calculated. Non-residential
properties shall be assessed a monthly rate for stormwater service based upon
the total number of ERUs that encompass the measured impervious surface area on
the individual property. The calculation to determine the total number of ERUs
for a non-residential property shall be completed by dividing the total square
footage of measured impervious surface area for a property by 3,400 square
feet. The division shall be calculated to the first decimal place. Total ERUs
shall not be less than one for any non-residential property containing
measurable surface area.
         (a)   Only whole ERUs shall be used in determining the assignment of
gross ERUs to a property. All rounding necessary to reach the appropriate whole
ERU shall be done according to mathematical convention (0 to 0.4 rounded down
to the nearest whole ERU; 0.5 to 0.9 rounded up to the nearest whole ERU).
         (b)   Non-residential properties shall be billed based upon the
following rates:
            1.   The first 20 ERUs shall be billed at a monthly rate of $6/ERU.
            2.   Any ERUs above 20 shall be billed at a monthly rate of $4/ERU.
   (E)   Billings and terms of payment.
      (1)   Billings. Stormwater user fee levied pursuant to this chapter shall
be in effect from April 1, 2024, and shall be due and payable on or before the
dates shown on the billing statement, which, as of July 1, 2024, shall be
produced quarterly.
      (2)   Terms of payment. The stormwater user fee shall be due on the
payment date set out on the bill. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
fail to pay a stormwater service bill when due. All bills for stormwater
services not paid on or before the due date, which due date shall be
approximately 15 days after the bill is rendered, shall be subject to a
collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on outstanding balance. Payments
returned for nonsufficient funds (“NSF”) shall be subject to a NSF fee of $20.
      (3)   Payment priority. Partial payments shall be applied in this order:
         (a)   Any NSF fee on the account;
         (b)   Any late fees on the account;
         (c)   Past due balances;
         (d)   Current balances.
      (4)   Collection. Delinquent stormwater service charges, applied
penalties, and recording fees may be liened on a property and may be collected
in accordance with the provisions of IC 8-1.5-5-29, IC 8-1.5-5-30, and IC 8-
1.5-5-31. Delinquent stormwater service charges may also be collected in a
civil action along with reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs.
   (F)   Appeals of stormwater user fee. If, in the opinion of any user, the
ERU multiple assigned to his or her property is inaccurate in light of the
amount of impervious surface area found on the property, the user shall have
the right to contest the ERU determination and thus the rate assessed in the
following manner:
      (1)   The user shall obtain and complete a petition to appeal stormwater
rate and return it to the Clerk-Treasurer with verifiable documentation
supporting the user's claim. The Clerk- Treasurer shall then forward the
petition to the Stormwater Board for review and consideration.
      (2)   The Stormwater Board shall designate an individual to investigate
the user's claim and, upon review thereof, shall meet and render a written
determination within 60 days.
      (3)   A party or person aggrieved by the final Board determination shall
have the right to judicial review of the determination in accordance with state
law.
      (4)   If the Stormwater Board recommends that the user's rate be reduced,
or reduction is ordered by a court of law, the user shall be credited
accordingly for any overpayment made from the date of the petition.
      (5)   Dispute or appeal of an ERU determination for the stormwater user
fee shall not be a valid reason for non-payment of the originally assessed
stormwater user fee by the user.
   (G)   Stormwater user fee credit program. (Reserved for future use.)
   (H)   Stormwater Management Fund. All revenues earned and stormwater user
fees collected for stormwater service, including but not limited to drainage
service charges, permit and inspection fees, direct charges and interest
earnings on any unused funds shall be deposited in an account entitled “Town of
Sheridan Stormwater Revenue Fund” and shall be subject to the provisions of IC
36-9-23, as amended from time to time. Disbursements from the Stormwater
Revenue Fund shall be authorized by the Board and, as required by law, by the
Town Council. Such disbursements shall be used exclusively for the operation,
maintenance and improvement of the Town of Sheridan’s stormwater system. Funds
from this account shall not revert to any other town utilities or the general
fund of the town and may not be transferred for any other purpose. To the
extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the town issued pursuant to
the provisions of IC 36-9-23, as amended from time to time, revenues deposited
in the Stormwater Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants contained in
the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds.
   (I)   Exemptions. The following areas shall not be considered impervious
surface area for the purpose of calculating stormwater service charges:
      (1)   Public roadways (including federal, state, county and city);
      (2)   Public sidewalks and/or trails located within the right-of-way or
sidewalk easement;
      (3)   Public airport runways and taxiways;
      (4)   Railway beds, ties and rails; and
      (5)   Open water.
(Ord. 2015-6-2, passed 6-25-15; Am. Ord. 2024-05, passed 3-5-24)
Cross-reference:
   Other town funds, see
Ch. 34
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   REMOVAL OF SUBSTANCES ON STREETS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Applicability and limitations
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Liability for violation of traffic regulations; service
   
70.04   Motor vehicle accident report account and fee established
   
70.05   Fee for verification of motor vehicle titles and registration
Traffic Control Signals, Signs, Devices, Markings and the Like
   
70.15   Maintenance of required traffic control signs, signals or markings
   
70.16   Authority to require erection and maintenance of traffic control signs
at private entrances and exits at town streets
   
70.17   Tampering with official traffic control devices
Speed
   
70.30   Temporary speed limits in construction areas; procedure for
establishment
   
70.31   Applicability of state presumptive urban speed limit
Parking
   
70.45   General no parking zones
   
70.46   Establishment of temporary no parking zones
   
70.47   Use of public parking areas for certain purposes
   
70.48   Towing of illegally parked vehicles
Bicycles
   
70.60   Operation of bicycles on public sidewalks prohibited
   
70.61   Concurrent liability of parents, guardians for violations by minors
Trucks and Buses
   
70.75   Statutory authority
   
70.76   Driving or parking of certain trucks or buses on town streets and
alleys
   
70.77   Permitted use of streets and alleys by vehicles restricted
   
70.78   Temporary parking of restricted vehicles permitted under certain
circumstances
Golf Carts
   
70.85   Operation of golf carts within town limits
Utility Terrain Vehicles (UTVs)
   
70.95   Operation of UTVs within town limits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 APPLICABILITY AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions and requirements of traffic regulations adopted by the
Town Council shall be deemed to apply to all vehicles unless otherwise
expressly provided or unless clearly inapplicable by virtue of the character of
a particular type of vehicle. However, publicly owned vehicles or authorized
emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the town regulations to the same degree
and under the same circumstances that they are exempt from equivalent state
traffic regulations under the provisions of IC 9- 21-1-6 and 9-21-1-8.
   (B)   Town traffic regulations, unless otherwise expressly limited as to
area, apply to all publicly maintained streets, alleys or other public ways and
thoroughfares within and under the jurisdiction of the town, but not to any
area within the right-of-way of a state highway or of the town, but not to any
area within the right-of-way of a state highway or state-maintained route
wherein regulation of traffic is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Indiana Department of Highways, nor upon private property (other than a public
right-of-way easement), unless permitted by law and so provided.
('85 Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 1985-C28, passed 9-16-85)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated or defined, words and terms used in respect
to traffic regulations adopted by the Town Council shall be construed to have
the same meanings as defined for them under the provisions of IC 9-13-2-1 et
seq. ('85 Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 1985-C28, passed 9-16-85)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE OF OPERATION of a truck or bus). The private, off-street facility or
property where the vehicle is normally kept and maintained when not in use.
('85 Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed  9-16-85)
   BUS. A vehicle described by IC 9-13-2-17. The term does not include a
private bus described by IC 9-13-2-133, nor a school bus owned and operated by
a public or governmental agency, but does include a privately owned and
operated school bus operated by a person for compensation. ('85 Code, § 8-7-2)
(Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85)
   STOP. The cessation of movement of a vehicle before entering an
intersection, giving ample right-of- way to other vehicles which have arrived
at or are approaching the intersection or the intersecting thoroughfare. ('85
Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C31, passed 9-24-85)
   TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Pedestrians, ridden animals and other conveyances either singly or
together while using any street for the purpose of travel. ('85 Code, § 8-3-1)
(Ord. 1965-1-A, passed 8-22-78; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-16-85))
      (2)   Any and all vehicles operating on a public thoroughfare, including
motor vehicles, motorized bicycles (mopeds), bicycles and animal-drawn
vehicles. ('85 Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C31, passed 9-24-85)
   TRUCK. A vehicle described by IC 9-13-2-188. The term includes any trailer,
semitrailer or pole trailer designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property; it does not include a fire truck or similar
emergency vehicle. ('85 Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street. ('85 Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 1965-1-A,
passed 8-22-78; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9- 16-85)
   YIELD. Stopping or slowing a vehicle before entering an intersection
sufficiently to allow the driver to determine if other traffic is approaching
an intersection on an intersecting thoroughfare and, if so, to give safe right-
of-way to the other traffic. ('85 Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C31, passed 9-24-
85)
§ 70.03 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; SERVICE.
   In the case of any moving violation, the operator of a vehicle at the time
the violation occurs shall be cited and held liable for the violation. In the
case of a non-moving violation, the operator of the vehicle having caused the
violation shall be cited and held liable for the person is present and can be
identified. Otherwise, the registered or acknowledged owner or lessee of the
offending vehicle shall be presumed liable for the violation. If the owner or
operator of a vehicle which is in non-moving violation is not present at the
scene when the violation is discovered, the citation may be served by securely
attaching the violator's copy of the same in a conspicuous location on the
vehicle.
('85 Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 1985-C28, passed 9-16-85)
§ 70.04 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORT ACCOUNT AND FEE ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with IC 9-29-4-3, there is hereby established a fee of $5 for
each copy of a motor vehicle accident report provided to members of the public
by the town's Marshal Department. This fee does not apply to copies of reports
provided to prosecuting attorneys or judges of courts in connection with civil
or criminal prosecution of statutory or ordinance violations involving a
traffic accident. Receipts from this fee shall be credited to a special
subsidiary account in the General Fund to be designated as the “Accident Report
Account.” Money credited to the Accident Report Account may only be budgeted
and expended for the purposes which the Town Marshal determines to be related
to the keeping of accident reports or the prevention of traffic accidents.
('85 Code, § 8-11-1) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1990-1, passed 1-
23-90)
Cross-references:
   Duties of Town Marshal, see §
33.16
   General Fund as presumptive depository, see §
34.01
Editor’s note:
   IC 9-29-4 was repealed by P.L.86-2018, Sec.149.
§ 70.05 FEE FOR VERIFICATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE TITLES AND REGISTRATION.
   When the office of the Town Marshal is requested to verify the title and
registration of an out-of-state motor vehicle or other vehicle requiring police
inspection under IC 9-29-4-2, pursuant to its registration and licensing in
this state, a fee of $5 shall be paid to the town by the applicant. This fee
shall be deposited in the town General Fund.
('85 Code, § 8-11-2) (Ord. 1985-C10, passed 9-16-85)
Cross-references:
   Marshal Department, see
Ch. 33.
   General Fund as presumptive depository, see §
34.01
Editor’s note:
   IC 9-29-4 was repealed by P.L.86-2018, Sec.149.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS, SIGNS, DEVICES, MARKINGS AND THE LIKE
§ 70.15 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   When any traffic control regulation is imposed with respect to any
designated intersection, portion of street or other area, and:
   (A)   Designates a street to be one way; or,
   (B)   Regulates the speed of vehicles in any manner different from the prima
facie speed limit applicable by statute; or,
   (C)   Designates a stop or yield intersection; or,
   (D)   Restricts use of a street as to size, weight or type of vehicle; or,
   (E)   Regulates or prohibits the turning of vehicles; or,
   (F)   Restricts the parking, stopping or standing of vehicles; or,
   (G)   Is any other traffic regulation requiring the erection of signs
pursuant to IC 9-21-1-3(b) or another statute;
it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or other officer so directed by
the Town Council to erect and maintain at those locations standard traffic
control signs, signals, markings or devices in accordance with the Uniform
Traffic Control Manual of the state. In the case of any regulation which is
general in character and not made to pertain to any particular intersection,
portion of street or other designated location, the Street Commissioner may
cause appropriate signs to be erected at the places wherein the Town Marshal
finds that failure of persons to be informed of and to observe the applicable
regulation, and for that regulation to be properly enforced, creates a
substantial traffic hazard, traffic congestion or public inconvenience.
('85 Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 1985-C28)
§ 70.16 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS
AT PRIVATE ENTRANCES AND EXITS AT TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Council, upon the recommendation of the Street Commissioner
or Town Marshal, may adopt an order requiring the operator of any private
entrance or exit conjoining with a public street or alley under town
jurisdiction, other than an entrance or exit leading to or from a one- or two-
family dwelling, to erect and maintain, at the operator's expense, the traffic
control signs or devices as the Council deems reasonably necessary to regulate
traffic entering or exiting the public thoroughfare at the private entrance or
exit.
      (1)   Any such signs or devices shall comply with the Uniform Traffic
Control Manual of the state.
      (2)   A written copy of the order shall be served on or mailed to the
affected operator and shall state a reasonable period of time (not less than
ten days) for the operator to comply with the order.
      (3)   The order shall be enforceable by injunction.
   (B)   When traffic control signs or devices are erected in accordance with
this section, violations of the traffic controls shall be enforceable by the
town's police authorities and violators shall be liable to a fine in the same
amount as fixed by town ordinance for the respective violation or, if no
penalty is fixed by town ordinance, the violator shall be subject to citation
for a traffic violation under IC 9-30-3-1 et seq. and appropriate penalties as
applicable under IC 9-30-3-1 et seq..
('85 Code, § 8-9-2) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85)
§ 70.17 TAMPERING WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to destroy, remove, move,
alter, deface, obscure or otherwise tamper with any official traffic control
device:
   (A)   Established and maintained by the town pursuant to a town ordinance or
a statute; or,
   (B)   Erected and maintained by the operator of a private entrance or exit
pursuant to §
70.16.
('85 Code, § 8-10-1) (Ord. passed 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED
§ 70.30 TEMPORARY SPEED LIMITS IN CONSTRUCTION AREAS; PROCEDURE FOR
ESTABLISHMENT.
   A maximum speed limit of 20 mph for all vehicular traffic is established for
any street or public way in which a construction project is in progress in the
traveled portion of the street or public way. The Town Marshal shall determine
when the project is under way, shall cause proper posting of speed limit signs
along the street and public ways, shall determine when the construction project
is completed and cause removal of the speed limits signs upon completion.
('85 Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-12-84; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Town Marshal, see §
33.16
§ 70.31 APPLICABILITY OF STATE PRESUMPTIVE URBAN SPEED LIMIT.
   Except where special town speed limits are otherwise established and signs
posted, the presumptive (prima facie) urban district speed limit of 20 mph
shall be deemed to apply to all public thoroughfares within the corporate
limits of the town, other than a state highway or state-maintained route where
a different speed limit has been established and posted by the Indiana
Department of Highways, and violators shall be cited for a state offense and
liable to penalties as provided by IC 9-21-5-13.
('85 Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 1982-4, passed 10-13-82; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 2014-8-1, passed 8-14-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
Editor’s note:
   IC 9-21-5-13 was repealed by P.L.188-2015, Sec.72.
PARKING
§ 70.45 GENERAL NO PARKING ZONES.
   In addition to those areas where parking is prohibited by statute as
described by IC 9-21-16-5, when signs are erected it shall also be unlawful to
park any vehicle in the areas or portions of town streets as set forth in
Chapter 72, Schedule I.
('85 Code, § 8-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF TEMPORARY NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Areas of town streets, public parking lots, or other town property
where parking is normally permitted, may be temporarily designated as no
parking zones by the Town Marshal under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When requested by the Street Commissioner by reason of impending
street improvements, repairs, cleaning or snow removal; or,
      (2)   When requested by the Superintendent or similar authority of a
municipally operated utility or a private utility company provided public
utility services to the town by reason of impending installation, repair or
maintenance of utility systems running along or under the affected street or
property; or,
      (3)   When requested by a person responsible for construction or
demolition of a building or other structure adjacent to the affected public
street or property; or,
      (4)   When requested by a person sponsoring some special public event
such as a parade, concert, sports event and the like
and it is shown to the satisfaction of the Town Marshal that the continuation
of normally permitted parking would substantially interfere with the above-
described activity, that in light of the activity continued parking would
create traffic congestion or a traffic hazard, or that the safety of parked
vehicles would be substantially imperiled by the activity. However, a temporary
parking ban imposed under this section shall be for the shortest time necessary
for its purpose and in no event shall exceed seven days without the consent of
the Town Council President or a majority of the members of the Council. The
temporary parking ban may be made effective only during certain times of day or
certain days of the week as the Marshal deems necessary. When a temporary
parking ban is imposed, and before it becomes effective, temporary signs or
notices must be posted in conspicuous locations in the affected area at least
12 hours in advance (except in an emergency) indicating the temporary ban and
the days and times it will be in effect.
('85 Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 1985-C27, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 USE OF PUBLIC PARKING AREAS FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   Notwithstanding the fact that parking of vehicles may otherwise be
permitted, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the right-of-way of any
town street, public parking lot or other town property for any of the following
purposes:
   (A)   To repair the vehicle, except only for promptly conducted emergency
repairs occasioned by a breakdown of the vehicle while being driven on the
street or right-of-way; or,
   (B)   Primarily to show, demonstrate or advertise the vehicle to be for
sale, provided, this division is not intended to prevent a person whose vehicle
is for sale, and which displays a sign to that effect, from continuing to drive
the vehicle for purposes of transportation and to utilize public parking spaces
in the normal manner and incidental to that use.
('85 Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 1985-C27, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 TOWING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When a vehicle is found illegally parked on a town street or right-of-
way, public parking lot or other town property in violation of a statute or a
parking restriction established by town ordinance, the Town Marshal may direct
that the vehicle be towed away under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When a posted sign indicating the parking restriction also
specifically states the area is in a tow-in zone; or,
      (2)   When the vehicle is so parked as to cause an actual traffic hazard
or obstruction or block the use of driveways or other vehicular entrances or
exits; or,
      (3)   When the vehicle is parked so as to prevent or interfere with any
of the activities described by §
70.46 (A)(1) through (A)(4); or,
      (4)   When the vehicle prevents or interferes with the operations and
activities of authorized emergency vehicles; or,
      (5)   When notice to remove the vehicle has been given by a tag attached
to the vehicle in accordance with IC 9-22-1-11 and the vehicle is not so
removed within 72 hours thereafter.
   (B)   Vehicles to be towed away pursuant to this section shall be towed and
safely stored by a vehicle towing service with which the town has a contract,
pursuant to IC 9-22-1-1 et seq., all at the expense of the vehicle owner in
accordance with the same towing and storage rates applicable to abandoned
vehicles under the contract. However, prior notice before towing pursuant to IC
9-22-1-11 is not required in the case of illegally parked vehicles described by
divisions (1) through (5) above. A vehicle towed pursuant to this section may
be reclaimed by the owner or the owner's authorized agent upon payment to the
vehicle towing service of the applicable towing and storage costs. But if any
vehicle towed pursuant to divisions (1) through (5) above is not so reclaimed
within 15 days it shall thereafter be deemed and administered as an abandoned
vehicle in accordance with IC 9-22-1-1 and Chapter 90 of this code of
ordinances.
('85 Code, § 8-5-4) (Ord. 1985-C27, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see Ch. 90
BICYCLES
§ 70.60 OPERATION OF BICYCLES ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle on a sidewalk open as a public way for the
general use of the pedestrian public.
('85 Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 1981-6, passed 10-14-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 CONCURRENT LIABILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS FOR VIOLATIONS BY MINORS.
   Any parent, legal guardian or other person having legal custody of a minor
child, and who knowingly permits that minor child to violate the provisions of
this subchapter, shall be equally liable for that violation and subject to
penalties as provided in §
70.99 (C).
('85 Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 1981-6, passed 10-14-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCKS AND BUSES
§ 70.75 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted by the town pursuant to its powers under state
law.
('85 Code, § 8-7-1) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85)
§ 70.76 DRIVING OR PARKING OF CERTAIN TRUCKS OR BUSES ON TOWN STREETS AND
ALLEYS.
   (A)   Except when permitted under this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive or park any truck which has a rated load capacity of 1½
tons or more or any truck or bus which is 30 feet or more in length or to park
any trailer on any street or alley owned, operated or maintained by the town.
   (B)   This section does not affect the use of any state highway or state-
maintained route within the town by trucks and buses for any lawful purpose,
and those vehicles may use the routes for passing through the town or for
parking unless that use is further restricted by the Indiana Department of
Highways.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner or other officer directed by the Town Council
shall erect and maintain appropriate parking and route-direction signs as
required by state law when and where deemed necessary by the Town Council for
the effective implementation and enforcement of this section.
('85 Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1985-C30, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1990-3, passed 11-13-90) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.77 PERMITTED USE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS BY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.76, a truck or bus restricted thereunder may, as necessary, drive upon a
town street or alley for the following bona fide purposes:
   (A)   To make delivery of or pick up goods or other cargo at a point within
the town; or,
   (B)   To pick up or discharge passengers at a point within the town; or,
   (C)   To proceed to or return from its base of operation from a point within
or to or from a point outside the town when that base of operation is within
the town; or,
   (D)   To proceed to or return from a service, repair or maintenance facility
located within the town.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the base of operation of all school
buses shall be considered to be within the town, at a facility of Marion Adams
Schools.
('85 Code, § 8-7-4) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 97-11-2, passed
11-11-97) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.78 TEMPORARY PARKING OF RESTRICTED VEHICLES PERMITTED UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES.
   A truck or bus subject to restriction under §
70.76 may temporarily park at any location on a town street or alley where
vehicular parking is otherwise permitted:
   (A)   When necessary to carry out the purposes described by §
70.77(A) or (B), provided, no suitable off-street parking space is available
for that purpose; or,
   (B)   In order to make prompt emergency repairs occasioned by a mechanical
breakdown of the vehicle while operating on a town street;
provided, the parking does not create a traffic hazard or obstruct the normal
use of the thoroughfare.
('85 Code, § 8-7-5) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.85 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the operation of golf carts within the
corporate limits of the town. Only operation pursuant to the conditions
contained herein shall be permitted.
   (B)   (1)   Only golf carts described and equipped as follows shall be
allowed to operate within the town’s corporate limits.
      (2)   Golf carts allowed to operate pursuant to this section shall be
required to adhere to the following requirements and restrictions.
         (a)   Golf carts shall be defined and limited to a vehicle with four
wheels originally designed for operation on a golf course and powered by a
battery or internal combustion motor without modifications as to method of
propulsion or speed capability. Any dispute shall be determined by the Town
Marshal.
         (b)   Vehicle must be registered with the town in accordance with this
section.
         (c)   Vehicle shall display a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear
of the vehicle at all times. In the alternative, a flashing yellow warning
light visible 360 degrees operating at all times.
         (d)   Vehicles are required to be equipped with a rear view mirror,
headlights and taillights when operating from dusk to dawn.
         (e)   All golf carts must be equipped with efficient brakes, reliable
steering and safe tires.
         (f)   The operation of vehicles defined herein as golf carts shall be
subject to all traffic laws governing the operation of motor vehicles by the
State of Indiana and local ordinances, including the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs.
         (g)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the
number of persons for whom seating capacity is provided on the vehicle. The
operator and all occupants shall be seated upon the seat of the vehicle and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside of the
perimeter of the vehicle while the vehicle is being operated except while
signaling turns or stops. A driver shall not permit any occupant of a golf cart
to ride in the lap of any occupant or stand on the rear of the vehicle while
the vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate limits shall be at least
16 years of age, hold a valid driver’s license and be covered by liability
insurance in an amount not less than the State of Indiana requires for
automobiles. DRIVER’S LICENSE shall be defined as a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle issued by Indiana or any other state.
   (D)   Registration.
      (1)   Annual registration. The owners or lessees of vehicles defined
herein as golf carts shall obtain an annual permit for the golf cart from the
town before operation on any public right-of-way. The annual permit is valid
from January 1 and expires on December 31 of each year. Owners or lessees of
golf carts must re-apply for a permit each year by December 31 for the upcoming
calendar year. For example, an owner or lessee of a golf cart must apply for
the 2014 permit no later than December 31, 2013. Owners or lessees of a golf
cart can apply for annual permit in the current calendar year but the annual
registration fee shall not be prorated.
      (2)   Registration in general. The registration process shall include the
following:
         (a)   Payment of an annual fee as set forth in the Town Fee Schedule
to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town to cover the cost of an annual permit and
license plate.
         (b)   Inspection by the Police Department to verify the vehicle is
insured and is properly equipped as required by this section.
         (c)   A valid license plate must be affixed to the back of each
registered golf cart in an area where it is clearly visible.
      (3)   Event registration. The owners or lessees of vehicles defined
herein as golf carts shall obtain an event permit for the golf cart from the
town before operation on any public right-of-way during any of the town’s
special events or holidays: Blue Grass Festival, May 4th; and Harvest Moon.
         (a)   Owners or lessees of a golf cart may apply for an event permit
within 24 hours of any of the special events listed above and any time during
the special event.
         (b)   The registration process for an event permit shall be the same
as required for an annual permit under division (D)(2) above, except the event
permit fee shall be in the amount of $10.
         (c)   The event permit shall be valid for the duration of the event
not to exceed 72 hours from the date of the issuance of the event permit.
   (E)   Town liability. The Town of Sheridan, Sheridan Town Council, Town of
Sheridan Clerk-Treasurer, Sheridan Police Department and Sheridan town
employees will assume no liability after issuing of a golf permit under this
section. The Town of Sheridan cannot be held responsible for any operator
actions while operating the golf cart on town streets, roadways and/or alleys.
The Town of Sheridan cannot be held responsible for any deaths, injuries or any
other damage that may occur from operator error or malfunction of the golf cart
on any street, roadway or alley in the Town of Sheridan.
(Ord. 2008-11-1, passed 11-20-08; Am. Ord. 2009-6-1, passed 6-25-09; Am. Ord.
2013-6-1, passed 6-27-13; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 2024-13,
passed 11-7-24) Penalty, see §
70.99
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES (UTVS)
§ 70.95 OPERATION OF UTVS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the operation of UTVs within the corporate
limits of the town. Only operation pursuant to the conditions contained herein
shall be permitted.
   (B)   Only UTVs described and equipped as follows shall be allowed to
operate within the town's corporate limits.
   (C)   UTVs allowed to operate pursuant to this section shall be required to
adhere to the following requirements and restrictions:
      (1)   UTVs shall be defined and limited to a vehicle with four wheels
with combustion motor, built and used primarily for commercial business instead
of recreational use.
      (2)   Only UTVs owned or leased by the town shall be permitted to operate
within the town's corporate limits.
      (3)   UTVs must be clearly identified by visible marking on the vehicle
displaying Street, Fire, Police and/or Parks Departments.
      (4)   UTVs shall have warning or emergency lighting on vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 12-13-21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violating town speed limits.
      (1)   A person who operates a vehicle in excess of the maximum speed
limit established by this chapter or any other town ordinance, when signs are
posted, shall be liable to a fine in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Amount Over Limit Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
10 – 25 mph     $ 75         $ 125
25 – 40 mph     125          175
More than 40 mph  175          500
 
      (2)   For the purposes of administering this section, the enforcement
officer shall note on the citation the amount by which the limit was exceeded.
Fines may not be paid directly to the Clerk- Treasurer, but may be paid in
accordance with §
35.29. ('85 Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-12-84; Am. Ord. 1985-C26,
passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 4-92-8, passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. 92-12-2, passed 12-
22-92)
   (B)   Penalties for parking violations. A person who violates any town
parking restriction, as provided hereunder (when signs are posted, if required)
shall be liable to a fine of $25 and each separate day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense. If the driver of the offending vehicle
is not present, the citation may be served by firmly attaching the same in a
conspicuous place on the vehicle. Applicable fines may be paid directly to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. ('85 Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 1985-C27, passed 9-16-85; Am.
Ord. 01-1990, passed 6-12-90)
   (C)   A person who violates, or is liable for a violation of, §§
70.60 or
70.61 this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $5 for each violation. The
fine may be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, in accordance with §
35.29. ('85 Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 1981-6, passed 10-14-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C26,
passed 9-16-85)
   (D)   Any person who lawfully drives or parks any truck or bus on any town
street or alley, other than when expressly permitted by the Code of Sheridan,
and when signs are erected as required under §
70.76 of the Code of Sheridan, shall be liable for a fine of $50 if the truck
or bus has a rate of capacity of one and one-half tons to 18,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight. If the truck or bus has a rated capacity of 18,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight or more, the person who lawfully drives or parks such truck or
bus shall be liable to a fine of $500, if paid to the Sheridan Clerk-Treasurer
within ten days of receiving the citation. If not paid to the Sheridan Clerk-
Treasurer within ten days of the citation, the fine shall be no less than $250,
and no more than $2,500 in the discretion of the court where such citation is
filed. (Ord. 97-11-2, passed 11-11-97)
   (E)   Any person who violates §
70.17 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 and
shall be liable to the town or the operator of the private entrance or exit for
all costs incident to the replacement, repair or other restoration of the
affected traffic control device. ('85 Code, § 8-10-1) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-
24-85)
   (F)   Any act constituting a violation of §
70.85 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
penal town ordinance violation and an offender may be cited for the violation
and upon conviction shall be liable to a fine of $50. Each day that any of the
provisions of §
70.85 is violated shall constitute a separate offense and the offender will be
charged an additional $25 per day. All fees shall be payable to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
(Am. Ord. 2013-6-1, passed 6-27-13; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-5-24)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way thoroughfares
   
II.   Stop and yield intersections
   
III.   Special speed limits on certain streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction, when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited, upon the
following streets and parts of streets:
Thoroughfare Portion Affected Permitted Direction
Thoroughfare                  Portion Affected             Permitted Direction
Cora Street                   - -                          East
East-west drive on north edge From Fanning to Hudson       East
of Adams Elementary School
Georgia Street                From 7th to 2nd Streets      North
                              From the east-west drive on
Hudson Street                 the north edge of Adams      North
                              Elementary School to 2nd
                              Street
Jaycee Street                 - -                          West
North-south alley between     From Adams Elementary School North
Fanning and Hudson Street     to 2nd Street
Ohio Street                   From First Street to 10th    South
                              Street
 
('85 Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 1965-1-A, passed 8-22-78; Am. Ord. 97-11-1, passed
11-11-97; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-6-24)
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section when signs are erected shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
fine not less than $100 nor exceeding $500. ('85 Code, § 8-3- 3) (Ord. 4-92-9,
passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. 92-12-2, passed 12-22-92)
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Two-way stop and yield intersections. The intersections described in
this section shall be two-way stop or yield intersections, applicable to
traffic approaching on the controlled street from either direction unless
otherwise indicated in the schedule, when appropriate signs are erected.
Traffic On Action Required At
Traffic On                     Action Required At
1st Street                     Stop            Adams, California, Blake,
                                               Sherman and Hudson Streets
3rd Street                     Stop            White Avenue, Georgia, Ohio and
                                               California Streets
4th Street                     Stop            Georgia, Ohio, California, Main
                                               and Bailey Streets
5th Street                     Stop            White Avenue, Georgia, Main and
                                               California Streets
6th Street                     Stop            California, Ohio and Main
                                               Streets
                                               Main, Ohio, California,
7th Street                     Stop            Sheridan, Hamilton, Hudson
                                               Streets and White Avenue
                                               (eastbound only)
                                               Georgia, Main, Ohio, California,
8th Street                     Stop            Hamilton and Sheridan Streets
                                               and Park and White Avenues
                                               California, Ohio, Main, Georgia,
9th Street                     Stop            Bailey, Hudson, Hamilton and
                                               Sheridan Streets
Adams Street                   Stop            3rd, 4th, 5th and 7th Streets
Bailey Street                  Stop            7th and 8th Streets
Blake Street                   Stop            Spencer and 2nd Streets
California Street              Stop            2nd and 10th Streets
Elm Street                     Stop            6th Street
Fanning Street                 Stop            1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 8th
                                               Streets
Georgia Street                 Stop            1st, 2nd, 6th and 10th Streets
Graybark Street                Stop            Shadetree Lane
Hamilton Street                Stop            6th and 10th Streets
                                               2nd, 8th and 10th Streets and
Hudson Street                  Stop            the intersection with 7th Street
                                               and White Avenue
Jaycee Avenue                  Stop            Ohio, California and Main
                                               Streets
Jarit Drive                    Stop            2nd Street
Linden Lane                    Stop            2nd Street
Main Street                    Stop            1st, 2nd and 10th Streets
North-south alley between      Stop            2nd Street
Hudson and Fanning Streets
Ohio Street                    Stop            1st, 2nd and 10th Streets
Park Avenue                    Stop            7th and 10th Streets
Shadetree Court                Stop            Shadetree Lane
Shadetree Lane                 Stop            Mule Barn Road
Sheridan Street                Stop            6th and 10th Streets
Spencer Street                 Stop            California, Sherman and Blake
                                               Streets
Spicewood Drive                Stop            2nd Street
St. John Street                Stop            1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and
                                               10th Streets
Tinker Street                  Stop            Blake and California Streets
White Avenue                   Stop            2nd Street
White Avenue (southbound only) Stop            6th Street
 
('85 Code, § 8-4-2) (Am. Ord. passed 11-28-06; Am. Ord. 2012-5-1, passed 5-10-
12)
   (B)   Three-way stop intersections. The following intersections are
designated as three-way stop intersections, and all traffic shall stop thereat
and give right-of-way to any other traffic which has already stopped at or
entered the intersection:
      (1)   The eastern intersection of Elm Street and Fifth Street
      (2)   The western intersection of Elm Street and Fifth Street
      (3)   At Maple Run Drive and Maple Trace Way.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-28-06)
   (C)   Four-way stop intersections. The following intersections are
designated as four-way stop intersections, and all traffic shall stop thereat
and give right-of-way to any other traffic which has already stopped at or
entered the intersection:
      (1)   Second Street and White Avenue
      (2)   4th Street and White Avenue
      (3)   10th Street and White Avenue
      (4)   Fanning Street and 7th Avenue
   (D)   Penalty. Any operator of a vehicle who fails to obey any stop or yield
sign which has been established and erected in accordance with division (A),
(B), or (C) of this schedule shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $500. In the case of any violation involving a motor vehicle or
other vehicle, the operation of which on public thoroughfares requires that the
operator possess a valid state operator's license, fines may not be paid
directly to the Clerk-Treasurer, but may be paid in accordance with Code of
Sheridan, §
35.29(B); in other instances, fines may be paid directly to the Clerk-Treasurer
in accordance with Code of Sheridan, §
35.29(A).
(Ord. 1997-1-1, passed 1-14-97)
SCHEDULE III. SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Speed limits on the following streets are fixed as indicated:
Street Portion Affected Limit (mph)
Street                            Portion Affected                 Limit (mph)
1st Street                        Between Hudson and Adams Streets 20
1st Street                        West of Adams and east of        20
                                  California
W. 2nd Street                     West of Sherman Street           20
7th Street                        S.R. 38 to Main Street           20
W. 236th Street                   From S.R. 47 going east to N.    35
                                  Lamong Road
Adams Street                      South of S.R. 47 to end          20
Main Street                       6th Street to 10th Street        20
Spicewood Drive                   North of 2nd Street              20
Streets in Maple Run Subdivision,
including: Bigleaf Drive, Foliage
Lane, Graybark Street, Maple Run                                   20
Drive, Maple Trace Way and
Shadetree Lane
Streets in Sheridan Estates
Subdivision, including: Arrow,
Arrowhead, Bow, Chief, Crossbow,                                   20
Longbow, Tomahawk and Warrior
Court
West Road                         500 feet south 241st Street to   30
                                  S.R. 47
White Avenue                      Between 5th and 2nd Streets      20
 
('85 Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 1982-4, passed 10-13-82; Am. Ord. 1985-C26, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 1995-8-1, passed 8-8-95; Am. Ord. 2007-3-3, passed 3-27-07; Am.
Ord. 2009-12-2, passed 12-17-09; Am. Ord. 2012-5-1, passed 5-10-12; Am. Ord.
2012-7-2, passed 7-26-12) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones; fire lanes
   
II.   Special locations where parking is permitted
   
III.   Stop and yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   In addition to those areas where parking is prohibited by statute, as
described by IC 9-21-16-5, when signs are erected it also shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle in the areas or portions of town streets as set forth in this
schedule:
Affected Street or Property Portion Affected Days and Times When Applicable
Affected Street or Property Portion Affected             Days and Times When
                                                         Applicable
2nd Street                  North from Main Street east  Any time
                            to the corporation line
2nd Street                  South side from Main Street  Any time
                            west to the corporation line
                            The entire south side,
                            between Fanning Street and
2nd Street                  Hudson Street, which is      Any time
                            approximately 510 feet in
                            distance
3rd Street                  South side between Ohio and  Any time
                            California Streets
East 4th Street             North side between White     Any time
                            Avenue and Bailey Street
East Fourth Street          South side between Georgia   Any time
                            Street and White Avenue
West 4th Street             Directly in front of the     Any time
                            Post Office
                            From Hamilton Avenue west to
West 4th Street             the western end of 4th       Any time
                            Street on the north and
                            south sides
West 4th Street             South side between Ohio and  Any time
                            California Streets
6th Street                  South side between Main      Any time
                            Street and White Avenue
                            20 feet on the south side
East 8th Street             from the intersection of 8th Any time
                            Street and Park Avenue
Adams Street                East side between 1st and    Any time
                            2nd Streets
Arrow Street                From S.R. 47 to Arrowhead    Any time
                            Street on east and west side
Arrowhead Street            From Bow to Tomahawk on the  Any time
                            north side
Bigleaf Drive               East side and cul-de-sac     Any time
Bow Street                  From Arrowhead to Longbow on Any time
                            the east side
                            East and west sides from
California Street           State Road 47 for one block  Any time
                            north of State Road 47 (900
                            block)
California Street           West between 2nd and 10th    Any time
                            Streets
                            From Warrior Street to
Chief Street                Longbow on the east and west Any time
                            side
Crossbow Street             From Bow to Tomahawk on the  Any time
                            north side
Foliage Lane                North side including cul-de- Any time
                            sac
                            East and west sides from
Georgia Street              State Road 47 for one block  Any time
                            north of State Road 47 (900
                            block)
Georgia Street              West side between 1st and    Any time
                            10th Streets
Graybark Street             East side                    Any time
J.C. Avenue                 Both sides                   Any time except for
                                                         deliveries
Longbow Street              From Bow to Tomahawk on the  Any time
                            south side
                            Both sides from 6th to 2nd
Main Street                 Streets                      8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
                            (two hour parking)
Main Street                 Both sides on Friday morning 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                            (sweeping)
                            East and west sides from
Main Street                 State Road 47 for one block  Any time
                            north of State Road 47 (900
                            block)
                            West side between L&N
Main Street                 Railroad tracks and 10th     Any time
                            Street
Maple Run Drive             East side and cul-de-sac     Any time
Maple Trace Way             East side                    Any time
Ohio Street                 East side between 2nd and    Any time
                            10th Streets
Ohio Street                 West side from alley south   Any time
                            of 3rd Street to 4th Street
                            West side between 7th and
Park Avenue                 10th Streets and south of    Any time
                            8th Street, 20 feet on east
                            side
Shadetree Court             North side including cul-de- Any time
                            sac
                            From Maple Trace Way to Mule
Shadetree Lane              Barn Road east and north     Any time
                            sides
Spicewood Drive             From 2nd Street north on     Any time
                            east side
Tomahawk Street             From Arrowhead to Longbow on Any time
                            the west side
Warrior Court               North side including cul-de- Any time
                            sac
West Elm Street             Entire portion, on north and Any time
                            south sides
 
   (B)   Fire lanes.
      Sheridan High School
      There shall be no parking on the asphalt parking lot along the front
(Western) facade of the High School building. This will be a marked section
that is 9 feet in width and 414 feet in length.
      There shall be no parking on the South side of the High School building
that is commonly known as the “Bus Ramp.” This will be a marked section that is
550 feet in length.
      Sheridan Middle School
      There shall be no parking on the gravel path in the rear or Eastern
portion of the complex of the Middle School.
      There shall be no parking on the horseshoe portion of the driveway in the
Middle School complex. This will be a marked section, 490 feet in length, along
the Western portion of curb.
      There shall be no parking in the service access drive in the rear of both
the High School and the Middle School. This driveway is described as being 12.5
feet in width and 138 feet in length.
      Adams Elementary
      There shall be no parking on the West side of Bailey Street between
Fourth Street and to the northern termination of Bailey Street.
      There shall be no parking 20 feet on either side (right or left) of the
Northwest gate leading to the football field.
      There shall be no parking in a section that run 287 feet in length on the
South side of the Adams Elementary building.
('85 Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 1985-C27, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1987-1, passed 1-
13-87; Am. Ord. 1988-8, passed 12-28-88; Am. Ord. 1993-6-1, passed 6-8-93; Am.
Ord. 1993-11-1, passed 11-9-93; Am. Ord. 1995-12-1, passed 12-5-95; Am. Ord.
1999-6-1, passed 6- - 99; Am. Ord. 2005-6-1, passed 6-14-05; Am. Ord. passed
11-28-06; Am. Ord. 2012-5-1, passed 5-10-12; Am. Ord. 2013-8-1, passed 8-8-13;
Am. Ord. 2017-10, passed 10-9-17; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-28-19; Am. Ord.
2021-02, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed 3-5-24) Penalty, see §
70.99(B)
SCHEDULE II. SPECIAL LOCATIONS WHERE PARKING PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.76 parking of vehicles restricted thereunder shall be permitted in the
following locations to the extent that parking is not generally restricted by
statute or ordinance:
 
Street      Location
Park Street Between the Seaboard [ex-Monon] tracks south to 10th Street
 
('85 Code, § 8-7-6) (Ord. 1985-C30, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
70.99(D)
SCHEDULE III. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Two-way stop and yield intersections. The intersections described in this
section shall be two-way or yield intersections, applicable to traffic
approaching on the controlled street from either direction unless otherwise
indicated in the schedule, when appropriate signs are erected, amended to
include:
 
Traffic on      Action required At
Arrow Street    Stop            Arrow Street
Crossbow Street Stop            Bow Street
Crossbow Street Stop            Tomahawk Street
Chief Street    Stop            Longbow Street
Chief Street    Stop            Warrior Court
 
(Ord. 2005-6-2, passed 6-14-05)
CHAPTER 73: REMOVAL OF SUBSTANCES FROM STREETS
Section
   
73.01   Removal of mud and other substances on town streets
§ 73.01 REMOVAL OF MUD AND OTHER SUBSTANCES ON TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other
public place unless such vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to
prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand or other substance may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle, shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover.
   (C)   No person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity shall
operate any vehicle or equipment in connection with a construction site and/or
a business or commercial enterprise so as to cause, track or drop mud, dirt,
stones, gravel or other similar material on any street, highway or other public
place.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver and/or owner of a vehicle who
unlawfully drops or deposits mud, dirt, stones, gravel or other similar
material or permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited
upon any street, highway or other public place to immediately remove the same
or immediately cause it to be removed.
   (E)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity who
violates the provisions of this chapter commits an infraction and may be fined
up to $200 plus court costs for the first violation, up to $500 plus court
costs for the second violation, and up to $2,500 plus court costs for the third
and all subsequent violations. Each day shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2005-2-1, passed 2-22-05)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
APPENDIX: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ROADS AND STREETS
      
95.   WEEDS AND LIKE RANK VEGETATION
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Leaving abandoned vehicle prohibited
   
90.03   Leaving junk vehicle in open view
   
90.04   Abatement of junk vehicle violation
Towing
   
90.15   Enforcement; towing and storage
   
90.16   Towing costs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle defined, by IC 9-13-2-1 as being abandoned,
except those exempted under IC 9-22-1-1.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle, regardless of model or age, which is so
mechanically or structurally deteriorated or has had necessary parts removed,
so it is inoperable or may not be safely operated as a motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or part or appurtenance thereof, designed for use
as a conveyance on the public streets and highways and which is required to be
licensed for that use by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
('85 Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85)
§ 90.02 LEAVING ABANDONED VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be an unlawful act for any person to leave an abandoned vehicle
anywhere within the town limits for more than 72 hours after the time it is
first declared abandoned and tagged as hereinafter provided.
('85 Code, § 8-8-2) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LEAVING JUNK VEHICLE IN OPEN VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a junk vehicle parked on any
public property, except temporarily in an emergency and due to mechanical
failure while driving the vehicle or to leave the vehicle on private property
other than in an enclosed building or other area screened from public view for
any continuous period longer than 14 days.
('85 Code, § 8-8-5) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1989-SMC 8-8-5 and
SMC 8-8-6, passed 10- 24-89; Am. Ord. 4-92-11, passed 4-28-92) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ABATEMENT OF JUNK VEHICLE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any junk vehicle left on public property in violation of §
90.03 shall be deemed prima facie an abandoned vehicle as provided by IC 9-13-
2-1 and shall be abated in accordance with §
90.15.
   (B)   Any junk vehicle left on private property may be abated after notice
as set forth in this section in accordance with IC 36-1-6-2 or IC 36-1-6-4 and
the owner of the property shall be liable for all costs of that abatement in
addition to any penal fines which may be incurred under §
90.03. Prior to any initiation of an action to abate or the filing of a
violation, an officer who has cause to believe that a junk vehicle is
improperly left on private property shall attach a tag to that vehicle and
shall notify the owner of the property in writing of the violation. If the junk
vehicle is not removed from the private property or is not moved into an
enclosed building or other area screened from public view within 72 hours of
the tag or notice, then the officer may cause the junk vehicle to be removed
and stored by a towing service with which the town has a contract under §
90.16 and/or file a violation in the appropriate court.
   (C)   An officer shall have the right, pursuant to this section, to enter
persons' private property to attach a tag to any vehicle which is in violation
of §
90.03. Further, any officer or member of an appropriate towing service may
enter upon private property to remove and store any vehicle which is in
violation of §
90.03 and pursuant to division (B) above.
('85 Code, § 8-8-6) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 1989-SMC 8-8-5 and
SMC 8-8-6, passed 10- 24-89)
TOWING
§ 90.15 ENFORCEMENT; TOWING AND STORAGE.
   Any police officer who has cause to believe a vehicle is abandoned shall
attach a tag to that vehicle of a type and in the manner prescribed by IC 9-22-
1-11. If the vehicle then is not removed within 72 hours, the officer shall
cause the same to be removed in accordance with IC 9-22-1-11 and shall notify
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in accordance with IC 9-22-1-19; provided, that
notwithstanding any provision of IC 9- 22-1-1 et seq., nor the officer's
estimated value of the vehicle, the same shall be towed and safely stored and
regular notice shall be given to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the same
manner as with any other abandoned vehicle. The officer shall cause the vehicle
to be removed and stored by a towing service with which the town has a contract
under §
90.16.
('85 Code, § 8-8-3) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85)
§ 90.16 TOWING COSTS.
   On or before December 31 of each year, the Town Council shall enter into a
contract with one or more vehicle towing and storage services for the removal
and storage of abandoned vehicles. The contract shall stipulate a schedule of
costs and charges to apply under the contract and a copy thereof shall be filed
with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in accordance with IC 9-22-1-30. The owner of
the vehicle shall be liable for paying all such costs to the vehicle towing and
storage service upon and as a condition of reclaiming the vehicle, or in
default thereof the costs shall be the liability of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles from the state Abandoned Vehicle Account and not a liability of the
town.
('85 Code, § 8-8-4) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who leaves an abandoned vehicle in violation of §
90.02 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100, in
addition to any costs for towing and storage of the vehicle. ('85 Code, § 8-8-
2) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-16-85)
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.03 shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for
each day a violation continues. ('85 Code, § 8-8-5) (Ord. 1985-C29, passed 9-
16-85; Am. Ord. 1989-SMC 8-8-5 and SMC 8-8-6, passed 10-24-89; Am. Ord. 4-92-
11, passed 4-28-92)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   County regulations adopted by reference
§ 91.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town Council desires to follow and utilize the Hamilton County rules and
regulations regarding animals. Therefore, the Town Marshal is instructed to
follow and enforce the Hamilton County Animal Control Ordinance, as may be
amended from time-to-time.
(Ord. 2017-1-2, passed 1-23-17)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Acts or conditions generally defined as public nuisances
   
92.02   Limitations of applicability; exception
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.15   Enforcement officers designated
Abatement Procedures
   
92.25   Class A nuisances
   
92.26   Class B nuisances; appeal
   
92.27   Class B nuisances; failure to abate; further procedures
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ACTS OR CONDITIONS GENERALLY DEFINED AS PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following acts or conditions are hereby deemed and declared public
nuisances detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare of the
community and the proper officers of the town are authorized to require and
enforce the abatement of those nuisances as, in their discretion, they shall
deem necessary.
   (A)   Class A nuisances. The following acts or conditions shall be deemed
Class A nuisances and are subject to abatement in the manner provided by §
92.25:
      (1)   Operating or permitting the operation of radios, phonographs, tape
recorders, amplifiers, musical instruments, power tools or similar devices or
conducting or participating in noisy or boisterous parties or gatherings,
producing noise of such unreasonable level or at such unreasonable hours and
plainly audible beyond the property boundary or through partitions within a
building so as to cause other persons to complain of being disturbed thereby or
which appears, in the opinion of an enforcement officer, to substantially
disturb the tranquility of a neighborhood.
      (2)   Causing or permitting excessive and annoying noise or dust from the
operation of machinery or vehicles, except to the extent that their operation
is necessary for the ordinary purposes of construction, industry or
transportation and the noise and dust is natural to their operation and cannot
be prevented by reasonable and ordinary means.
      (3)   Detonation or use of firecrackers, blank pistols or other fireworks
or explosive devices for purposes of amusement or celebration, other than in
the case of properly qualified persons authorized by the Town Council to
conduct public fireworks displays.
      (4)   Causing or permitting the emission and dissemination of dense,
toxic, foul-smelling, irritating or annoying smoke, fumes, dust, ash products
or condensates.
   (B)   Class B nuisances. The following acts or conditions shall be deemed
Class B nuisances and are subject to abatement in the manner provided by §
92.26:
      (1)   Maintaining any condition of property, other than a natural
condition of the land, which:
         (a)   Is conducive to the breeding or harborage of noxious, annoying
or injurious animals and insects, including, but not limited to rats, mice,
mosquitoes, flies and termites.
         (b)   Involves the accumulation and storage, for unreasonable periods
of time, in the front or side yard or other areas visible from a public street
or other public place of broken or discarded furniture and household equipment,
packing boxes, abandoned equipment or machinery or other litter and debris.
         (c)   Invites or provides harborage for trespassers, vagrants,
criminals or persons intent on the conduct of illegal or immoral activities.
         (d)   Is maintained in such condition as to become so defective,
unsightly or in such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same
causes appreciable diminution of the property values of surrounding properties;
or
         (e)   Constitutes the maintenance of a specific hazard or attractive
nuisance, such as, but not limited to, improper storage or protection of highly
flammable or explosive materials, neglected vehicles or machinery, unprotected
pools or excavations, dead or decayed trees, or inadequately guarded electrical
wiring.
      (2)   Operation of electrical or mechanical equipment or machinery which:
         (a)   Causes electrical or electromagnetic interference with radios,
televisions, telephones or other communications or electronic equipment; or
         (b)   Causes earth shaking vibrations;
detectable beyond the premises where the equipment is operated and causing or
potentially causing damage to property or annoyance to others; or
      (3)   Any other act or condition, to the extent not defined as a Class A
public nuisance and which:
         (a)   Works an unreasonable injury, harm or prejudice to others or the
public generally;
         (b)   Is done to the unreasonable hurt and annoyance of the lands,
tenements or hereditaments of others or of the public;
         (c)   Endangers life or health;
         (d)   Gives unreasonable offense to the senses;
         (e)   Violates the laws of common decency; or
         (f)   Constitutes an abuse of public or another's private property or
impedes the normal use and enjoyment of public or private property by others.
('85 Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
§ 92.02 LIMITATIONS OF APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to nor prohibit any of the
following acts or conditions:
      (1)   Any act or condition resulting from the conduct of an agricultural
or industrial activity which has been carried on for more than one year, and
the nuisance of the activity results from a change in the locale and environs
of the activity rather than a change in the activity itself and the activity
would not have constituted a substantial nuisance except for the change in the
locale or environs to the extent provided by IC 34-19-1-4.
      (2)   Any act or condition expressly required or authorized by any law of
the United States or this state or any ordinance or order adopted by the Town
Council or by any regulation, license or permit promulgated or issued under
authority thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to be supplementary to and
do not supersede any other ordinance declaring or implying any act or condition
to be a public nuisance or regulating the same or providing a procedure for the
enforcement of the provisions or penalties for their violation. If any act or
condition is such as to constitute a violation both of this chapter and another
town ordinance, the matter may be enforced in accordance with either ordinance,
as the proper town authorities deem most appropriate.
('85 Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
Editor’s note:
   IC 34-19-1-4 was repealed by P.L. 2-2002, Sec. 128.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.15 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS DESIGNATED.
   The following officers of the town are empowered to enforce the provisions
of this chapter:
   (A)   The Town Council, through its lawfully adopted orders.
   (B)   The Town Marshal and police officers.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner, to the extent that any nuisance impairs or
makes dangerous the use of the public streets, alleys, sidewalks or other
public property under the authority and supervision of the Street Commissioner.
   (D)   The Town Utility Superintendent, to the extent that any nuisance
impairs the use or operation of the public utility systems.
   (E)   The Town Attorney, to the extent hereafter provided.
('85 Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 92.25 CLASS A NUISANCES.
   If any enforcement officer finds that a Class A nuisance is being caused or
permitted and should be abated, the enforcement officer shall determine and
confront the person responsible for the nuisance and order that person to
forthwith abate or case and desist from any act causing or constituting the
nuisance. Any person failing to comply with an order of the enforcement officer
shall be subject to immediate citation for a penal violation, and subject to
the penalties as provided by §
92.99
('85 Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
§ 92.26 CLASS B NUISANCES; APPEAL.
   (A)   If any enforcement officer finds that a Class B nuisance is being
caused or permitted and should be abated, the enforcement officer shall serve
or send by registered mail a dated written notice to the person determined to
be responsible for causing or permitting the nuisance and also to the owner of
any property from which the nuisance emanates, if different. The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the offending act or condition and the location thereof,
and state that the act or condition is condemned as a public nuisance in
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Require that the act or condition be abated or cased within a
reasonable and specified period of time, not less than ten days.
      (3)   Specify the corrective actions which would be considered a
satisfactory abatement of the nuance.
      (4)   State that failure to abate the nuisance in a satisfactory manner
within the specified time will constitute a penal violation subjecting the
violator to fines as hereafter provided for each day the nuisance continues
unabated and that the violator and/or property owner may additionally be liable
to costs of abatement by the town, enforceable through a lien against the
property from which the nuisance emanates, or to further legal action by the
town and the costs thereof.
      (5)   State that the person served ,the owner or occupant of the affected
property or any other person having a substantial interest in the affected
property or the matter of the nuisance may, within ten days of the date of the
notice, file a written request with the Clerk-Treasurer for an appeal hearing
before the Town Council and that the hearing will be granted within 30 days of
the filing of the request and that if the appeal is filed, all further actions
shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing.
      (6)   Be signed with the name and title of the enforcement officer.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and, if
the nuisance emanates from any real property, a copy shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on that real property.
('85 Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
§ 92.27 CLASS B NUISANCES; FAILURE TO ABATE; FURTHER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If an appeal of an abatement order is duly filed as provided by §
92.26(A)(5), the Clerk-Treasurer shall present the request to the Town Council
President, who shall schedule a hearing within 30 days of the filing. The
hearing may be conducted at either a regular or special meeting of the Town
Council, but shall be open to the public. The Clerk-Treasurer shall give
written notice to the appellant of the date, time and place of the hearing. The
appellant may appear in person, by attorney or may make a written appearance,
but in all events shall be obliged to show to the satisfaction of the Council
that:
      (1)   The cited act or condition does not, in fact, constitute a
substantial public nuisance within the meaning of this or any other town
ordinance; or
      (2)   The required abatement would work an undue hardship on the
appellant or others such as to outweigh any benefits to the public.
   (B)   In addition to the appellant, any other resident of the town shall
have a right to be heard as to whether or not the abatement order should be
enforced. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt a motion either rescinding
or upholding the abatement order. However, if it upholds the order, the Council
may grant an extension of the deadline for compliance, as the members deem
reasonable in the circumstances, or may modify the requirements for abatement.
('85 Code, § 5-4-5) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who causes or permits any public nuisance and who fails to fully
abate or remedy the same when duly ordered or notified to do so within any
acceptable time period set for compliance in the notice, commits a penal
violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not
less than $300 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
('85 Code, § 5-4-8) (Ord. 1985-C20, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 4-92-5, passed 4-
28-92; Am. Ord. 92-12-2, passed 12-22-92; Am. Ord. 2024-13, passed 11-7-24)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   General provisions of revenue
   
93.02   Special non-reverting capital fund established; deposit
Administration and Enforcement
   
93.15   Department of Parks and Recreation established; appointment of members;
terms
   
93.16   Board of Parks and Recreation established; appointment of members;
terms
   
93.17   Vacancies in Board memberships
   
93.18   Compensation of Board members
   
93.19   General powers and duties of Board
   
93.20   Open meetings of Board
   
93.21   Superintendent of Parks and Recreation; appointment and qualifications;
Acting Superintendent
Town Parks
   
93.35   Park boundaries defined
   
93.36   General regulations; application of laws and ordinances
   
93.37   Entering or remaining on park premises after closing
   
93.38   Possession or use of alcoholic beverages
   
93.39   Improper disposition of trash
   
93.40   Damage to park and town property
   
93.41   Special speed limit; parking
   
93.42   Dogs prohibited in town’s parks during special events
   
93.43   Failure or refusal to cease violation; eviction
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS OF REVENUE.
   The Town Council shall provide the revenues necessary for the operation of
the Department of Parks and Recreation or for capital expenditures, or both by
a specific levy to be used for those purposes exclusively or by special
appropriation or both, all as the Town Council might determine.
('85 Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.02 SPECIAL NON-REVERTING CAPITAL FUND ESTABLISHED; DEPOSIT.
   Pursuant to IC 36-10-3-20, there is hereby created a special non-reverting
capital fund for the Department of Parks and Recreation for the purposes of
acquiring land or making specific capital improvements. The Town Council may
annually appropriate an amount or amounts of money to the special non-reverting
capital fund for that purpose or purposes. In addition, money received from the
sale of surplus property under IC 36-10-3-12 or from park and recreation fees
established pursuant to IC 36-10-3-22(a) shall be deposited in the special non-
reverting capital fund. Money credited to the fund may only be withdrawn and
expended or transferred in accordance with IC 36-10-3-20(b).
('85 Code, § 6-1-9) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.15 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS;
TERMS.
   There is hereby created as a part of the governmental organization of the
town a single Department of Parks and Recreation, which Department shall be
composed of a Board of Parks and Recreation, a Superintendent and other
personnel as the Board may determine.
('85 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.16 BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS;
TERMS.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of members as
follows:
      (1)   Four members appointed by the Town Council President, provided not
more than two of those members shall be of the same political party; and,
      (2)   One member who shall be a member of the Board of School Trustees of
the Marion-Adams School Corporation, appointed by the school trustees; and,
      (3)   One member who shall be a member of the Sheridan Library Board,
appointed by the Library Board.
   (B)   Members of the Board appointed under divisions (A)(1) above shall
serve for a four-year term, which shall expire on the first Monday in January,
provided, the term of members initially appointed shall be one, two, three and
four years. Members appointed under divisions (A)2) or (A)(3) above shall serve
for a one-year term expiring on the first Monday in January. However,
regardless of the expiration of terms as fixed above, an appointee shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed and shall be
considered reappointed to a new term if no successor is appointed by the first
Monday in April following the expiration of the member's term.
('85 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.17 VACANCIES IN BOARD MEMBERSHIPS.
   If a vacancy on the Board of Parks and Recreation occurs, the appointing
authority having the power to originally appoint the vacating members as
provided by §
93.16 shall appoint a member for the unexpired term.
('85 Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.18 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Parks and Recreation may, at the
discretion of the Town Council, be provided with:
      (1)   An annual salary not to exceed the amount prescribed by IC 36-10-3-
9(a); and/or
      (2)   A per diem allowance for each meeting of the Board attended by the
member.
   (B)   Any compensation determined under division (A) above shall be included
in the town salary ordinance and in the budget and appropriations for the
Department.
('85 Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.19 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the general power to perform
all acts necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition to all other powers necessary to achieve the general objectives of the
Board, the Board shall have other powers and duties as are allowed under the
provisions of IC 36-10-3 and all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
('85 Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.20 OPEN MEETINGS OF BOARD.
   All meetings of the Board of Parks and Recreation shall be public.
('85 Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
§ 93.21 SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS;
ACTING SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall appoint a Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation and fix his or her compensation commensurate with his or her
qualifications. The Superintendent shall be qualified by training or experience
in the field of parks and recreation or shall possess a license or an advanced
degree in the field of parks or recreation. The Board shall give no
consideration to political affiliations in the selection of the Superintendent.
However, notwithstanding any provision of this section, in the event there is
no qualified candidate for the position of Superintendent and who is otherwise
found suitable and satisfactory to for appointment by the Board, the Board may
appoint some person having lesser formal qualifications to serve as Acting
Superintendent until the time a fully qualified and satisfactory candidate
becomes available. An Acting Superintendent shall have all powers and duties as
provided by statute or ordinance and shall be entitled to receive the salary of
the Superintendent.
('85 Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 1970-P-1, passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
TOWN PARKS
§ 93.35 PARK BOUNDARIES DEFINED.
   (A)   The following described real estate shall be considered Biddle
Memorial Park for the purposes of this chapter, to wit:
      Part of the north half of the northeast quarter of Section 5, Township 19
North, Range 3 East in Hamilton County, more particularly described as follows:
      Beginning on the north line of the north half of the northeast quarter of
Section 5, Township 19 North, Range 3 East, 146.87 feet north 90 degrees 00
minutes 00 seconds east (assumed bearing) of the northwest corner thereof;
thence north 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds east on and along the north line
630.20 feet to the intersection of the northline with the centerline of State
Road 38 (Lafayette Road) as now located; thence south 52 degrees 02 minutes 00
seconds east 48.60 feet; thence south 58 degrees 39 minutes 00 seconds east
188.00 feet; thence south 61 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds 420.60 feet; thence
south 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds perpendicular to the north line of that
quarter 718.00 feet; thence south 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds west
parallel with the north line 617.55 feet to the northeasterly right-of-way of
the Monon Railroad as now located; thence north 49 degrees 19 minutes 50
seconds west on and along the right-of-way line 737.79 feet; thence north 00
degrees 01 minutes 20 seconds east 568.80 feet to the beginning point;
containing 23.03 acres, more or less.
      Commonly known as: 610 E 10th Street, Sheridan, Indiana
   (B)   The following described real estate shall be considered Veteran’s Park
for the purposes of this chapter, to wit:
      A part of the northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 20 North, Range 3
East located in Adams Township, Hamilton County, Indiana, being described as
follows:
      Commencing at the railroad spike at the southwest corner of the northwest
quarter of Section 32, Township 20 North, Range 3 East; thence north 00 degrees
13 minutes 04 seconds east 354.75 feet on and along the west line of said
northwest quarter to the point of intersection of said west line and the north
line of First Street; thence south 89 degrees 47 minutes 39 seconds east 505.89
feet on and along the north line of First Street (49.5 feet right-of-way) to
the point of beginning of this description; thence south 89 degrees 47 minutes
39 seconds east 523.00 feet on and along said north right-of-way line of First
Street to the southwest corner of a 0.89 acre tract of real estate described in
Deed Record 347, page 331, said southwest corner being north 00 degrees 06
minutes 20 seconds west 49.5 feet from the northwest corner of Lot 3, Square 4
of the Original Plat of Sheridan (a/k/a Boxley Original); thence north 00
degrees 06 minutes 20 seconds west 294.50 feet parallel with the west line of
said Lot #3, Square 4 to the northwest corner of said 0.89 acre tract; thence
south 89 degrees 47 minutes 39 seconds east 145.82 feet, more or less, on and
along the north line of said 0.89 acre tract and said north line extended
easterly to a point on the west line of a one-half acre tract of real estate
described in Deed Record 295, page 790; thence north 00 degrees 10 minutes 48
seconds east 149.35 feet on and along the west line of said one-half acre tract
to the point of intersection of the west line of said 1/2 acre tract and the
south line of Lot #1 in Pioneer Village (as per plat Pioneer Village recorded
in Plat Book 2, page 57 in the Office of the Recorder of Hamilton County,
Indiana); thence north 89 degrees 47 minutes 39 seconds west 8.25 feet to the
southwest corner of said Lot #1; thence north 88 degrees 07 minutes 48 seconds
west 389.48 feet; thence north 82 degrees 53 minutes 52 seconds west 304.02
feet; thence south 3 degrees 32 minutes 41 seconds east 492.72 feet to the
point of beginning.
      Commonly known as: 101 East 1st Street, Sheridan, Indiana
   (C)   The following described real estate shall be considered Community
Center for the purposes of this chapter, to wit:
      Parcel No.: 02-01-32-03-08-009.000
      Commonly known as: 300 East 6th Street, Sheridan, Indiana
   (D)   Unless specifically referenced, the term “town’s parks” shall
collectively mean: Biddle Memorial Park, Veteran’s Park and Community Center.
('85 Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.36 GENERAL REGULATIONS; APPLICATION OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   No person shall violate any ordinance of the town upon the premises of the
town’s parks nor operate a motor vehicle in violation of any town ordinance or
state law upon the premises or public rights-of-way located within the town’s
parks.
('85 Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.37 ENTERING OR REMAINING ON PARK PREMISES AFTER CLOSING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to enter the premises or be upon the
premises of the town’s parks during the hours other than those posted at the
entrance of each of the town’s parks setting forth the hours when each of the
town’s parks is open.
('85 Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.38 POSSESSION OR USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage upon the premises of the town’s parks except as provided for under
this section.
('85 Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85)
   (B)   The Council may approve a special event permit for alcoholic beverages
for any of the town’s parks. The Council has the sole discretion to approve the
special event permit for alcoholic beverages and has the authority to deny a
special event permit for alcoholic beverages for any reason.
   (C)   (1)   An application for special event permit for alcoholic beverages
must include the following:
         (a)   A copy of a completed State of Indiana application for temporary
beer/wine permit;
         (b)   Certificate of insurance listing the town as an additional
insured;
         (c)   A signed indemnification agreement;
         (d)   A brief description of the event;
         (e)   Clean up plan;
         (f)   Emergency action plan; and
         (g)   Application fee of $25.
      (2)   All documents must be submitted to the Council no later than 30
days prior to an event.
      (3)   Council will review and take action on an application for special
event permit for alcoholic beverages at the regularly scheduled public meeting
following the filing of a completed application. Council will not review and
take action on the application for special event permit for alcoholic beverages
if it does not contain all of the documents liste in division (C)(1) above.
(Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.39 IMPROPER DISPOSITION OF TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful to litter or deposit trash, waste or refuse upon the
premises of the town’s parks except in the proper containers located upon the
premises for that purpose.
('85 Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.40 DAMAGE TO PARK AND TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to intentionally damage property belonging
to the town’s parks or to the town and located upon the premises of the town’s
parks.
('85 Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.41 SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT; PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town’s parks to:
   (A)   Operate any motor vehicle in excess of ten mph; or
   (B)   Park a motor vehicle in any area posted with “No Parking” signs.
('85 Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.42 DOGS PROHIBITED IN TOWN’S PARKS DURING SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Dogs, leashed or unleashed, shall be prohibited during special events
held on the premises of the town’s parks.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, SPECIAL EVENTS shall be defined as
follows:
      (1)   Sheridan Fourth of July - Parade/Celebration;
      (2)   Sheridan BlueGrass Fever;
      (3)   Music and Art in the Park;
      (4)   Sheridan Harvest Moon Festival; and
      (5)   Any event held in the town’s parks which the Town Council
determines to be a special event under this section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any police dogs under the jurisdiction of the Town of Sheridan, as
well as dogs that are individually trained to do work or perform tasks for
people with disabilities.
      (2)   Any dogs which are actively participating in a parade or other
organized function.
(Ord. 2013-11-2, passed 11-14-13)
§ 93.43 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO CEASE VIOLATION; EVICTION.
   In addition to any penalties that may be applicable under §
93.41, any person who is found to be violating any of the regulations for using
any of the town’s parks, as set forth in this subchapter, shall be directed by
any police officer or representative of the Department of Parks and Recreation
to immediately cease and desist from that violation and, upon failure or
refusal to cooperate with that order, may be further ordered to depart
immediately from the premises of the town’s parks for the remainder of the day.
A person who does not comply with the order to depart from the town’s parks or
who returns to use the town’s parks at any time during the same day may be
charged and prosecuted for civil or criminal trespass.
('85 Code, § 6-2-9) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of committing any of the unlawful acts as set forth:
   (A)   A violation of §
93.36 shall be fined or liable to other penalties as prescribed for violation
of the respective law or ordinance violated upon the premises of the town’s
parks.
   (B)   A violation of §§
93.37 through
93.40 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   A violation of §
93.41 shall be liable to a fine in the same amount as otherwise fixed by
ordinance for violations of town speed limits or parking violations.
('85 Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 1972-P-2, passed 3-27-73; Am. Ord. 1985-C21, passed
9-16-85; Am. Ord. 4-92-6, passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. 92-12-2, passed 12-22-92;
Am. Ord. 2013-8-2, passed 8-8-13)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Construction and maintenance of private entrances or exits to or from
town streets; permit required; fee
   
94.02   Authority to require erection and maintenance of traffic control signs
at private entrances and exits to or from town streets
   
94.03   Cutting or excavating under town streets or sidewalks; permits and
conditions; fee
   
94.04   Responsibility of adjacent property owners or occupants to maintain
public sidewalks in useable condition
   
94.05   Nuisances related to town streets and sidewalks defined; enforcement
and abatement procedures
   
94.06   Underground and buried utility district
   
94.07   Food and beverage business seating
 
   
94.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Minimum standards for roads and streets
§ 94.01 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE ENTRANCES OR EXITS TO OR FROM
TOWN STREETS; PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   From and after September 24, 1985, it shall be unlawful for any person
to establish and construct any new private entrances or exits, such as
driveways, service roads, private alleys or private parking lot accesses
conjoining with any public town street or alley without first obtaining a
permit from the town Street Commissioner. A nonrefundable permit application
fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at the time application is made. The
Street Commissioner shall require the applicant to submit such locus
descriptions, plans and specifications as he or she deems necessary to
determine that:
      (1)   A traffic hazard or congestion would not be created by the
operation of the proposed entrance or exit; and,
      (2)   Adequate provision is made for drainage so as not to interrupt
flows in adjacent drainage ditches, gutters, storm sewer inlets, and the like,
as applicable; and,
      (3)   Any public sidewalks, curbs, gutters, street pavement and the like
modified or disturbed by the construction will be restored or reconstructed in
a condition acceptable to the town.
   (B)   All of the above shall be binding conditions of the permit and failure
of the applicant, property owner, or their agents, acting under the permit to
fully comply with all the conditions, shall entitle the town to pursue
subsequent remedial action in accordance with IC 36-1-6-2 or IC 36-1-6-4. This
section does not affect the continued maintenance and operation of private
entrances and exits lawfully in existence on or before September 23, 1985, nor
private entrances or exits conjoining with a state highway or state- maintained
route.
('85 Code, § 8-9-1) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85)
§ 94.02 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS
AT PRIVATE ENTRANCES AND EXITS TO OR FROM TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Council, upon the recommendation of the Street Commissioner
or Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners, may adopt an order requiring
that the operator of any private entrance or exit conjoining with a public
street or alley under town jurisdiction, other than an entrance or exit leading
to or from a one- or two- family dwelling, erect and maintain, at the
operator's expense, traffic control signs or devices as the Council deems
reasonably necessary to regulate traffic entering or exiting the public
thoroughfare at the private entrance or exit.
      (1)   Any such signs or devices shall comply with the Uniform Traffic
Control Manual of the state.
      (2)   A written copy of the order shall be served on or mailed to the
affected operator and shall state a reasonable period of time, not less than
ten days, for the operator to comply with the order.
      (3)   The order shall be enforceable by injunction.
   (B)   When traffic control signs or devices are erected in accordance with
this section, violations of the traffic controls shall be enforceable by the
town police authorities and violators shall be liable to a fine in the same
amount as fixed by town ordinance for the respective violation or, if no
penalty is fixed by town ordinance, the violator shall be subject to citation
for a traffic violation under IC Title 9, Article 21 and appropriate penalties
as applicable under IC Title 9, Article 30.
('85 Code, § 8-9-2) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85)
§ 94.03 CUTTING OR EXCAVATING UNDER TOWN STREETS OR SIDEWALKS; PERMITS AND
CONDITIONS; FEE.
   (A)   No person other than a person performing public works as authorized by
the town, a person who has been granted a private entrance construction permit,
a person who has been granted a sewer connection permit or the person so
authorized under the provisions of any general franchise granted by the town,
shall cut through, make a ditch or auger under the surface of any public
street, alley or public sidewalk under the jurisdiction of the town without
obtaining the consent of and permit from the Town Council. A non-refundable
permit application fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at the time application
is made. The Town Council may require, as a condition of the permit, that:
      (1)   The applicant file a performance bond of the town sufficient to
cover all costs to the town, should the applicant fail to restore any affected
town property to a satisfactory condition acceptable to the town following
completion of the work; and/or
      (2)   The applicant obtain liability insurance with the town as named
insured, against property damage, personal injury or death arising out of the
permitted work in such amounts as deemed necessary by the Council, but not to
exceed any amounts for which the town might be liable under the provisions of
IC 34-13-3-4; and/or
      (3)   The applicant or person performing the work as agent of the
applicant, erect and maintain the barriers and warnings as the Council deems
necessary to safeguard the public; and/or
      (4)   Any other conditions and requirements as the Council may deem
necessary or desirable and sees fit to stipulate as a condition of granting the
permit.
   (B)   Any person to whom this section applies and who performs or causes to
be performed any work as herein described without a permit or in violation of
the stipulated conditions of the permit shall be liable to a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $500 and shall also be liable to the town for any costs
incurred to satisfactorily restore any affected public property and to
restitute any other liabilities suffered by the town which arise out of any
work performed without the required permit.
('85 Code, § 8-10-2) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85; Am. Ord. 1990-2, passed 9-
25-90)
Cross-references
   Authority to require erection and maintenance of traffic control signs at
private entrances and exits at town streets, see §
70.16.
   Sewer connection permit required; application; procedure and requirements,
see §
50.022
§ 94.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS TO MAINTAIN
PUBLIC SIDEWALKS IN USEABLE CONDITION.
   (A)   When a public sidewalk under the jurisdiction of the town runs through
or abuts upon any private property, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner, or of the occupant of the property in the case of property
(other than a multi-family dwelling, multi-office building or shopping center)
which is occupied by tenants, to maintain all public sidewalks running through
or abutting upon the property in a reasonably useable and safe condition.
   (B)   REASONABLY USEABLE AND SAFE CONDITION means the owner or occupant
shall be responsible for the prompt removal of snow and ice, mud or other
obstructions affecting that portion of the public sidewalk running through or
abutting the owner's or occupant's property and which may endanger or impair
the safe use of the sidewalk by public pedestrians for normal purposes.
   (C)   It is a defense against violation of this section that:
      (1)   The responsible property owner or occupant is physically incapable
of himself or herself performing the work necessary to comply with this section
and is financially incapable of employing another person to do so on his or her
behalf;
      (2)   The responsible owner or occupant was absent from the town at the
time the relevant condition occurred and was unaware thereof; or
      (3)   The provisions of a public easement whereby the public sidewalk
runs through the owner's or occupant's property expressly makes the town or
other public authority responsible for the above- described maintenance
activities.
   (D)   This section is not intended to annul any provisions of private
easements, covenants, leases, contracts and the like whereby a person other
than the owner or occupant is made liable for the functions required hereunder,
but the enforcement of any such provisions shall be the province of the
affected owner or occupant and not of the town and the provisions shall not be
construed to relieve the owner or occupant of immediate responsibility under
this section.
('85 Code, § 8-10-3) (Ord. 1985-C32, passed 9-24-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 NUISANCES RELATED TO TOWN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS DEFINED; ENFORCEMENT
AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following conditions within the town are hereby declared
nuisances:
      (1)   Putting, throwing, dumping, leaving or depositing or causing to be
put, thrown, dumped, left or deposited any paper, boxes, tin cans, brush,
brick, wood, glass, dirt, sand, gravel, grass, leaves or debris or rubbish of
any kind or character, in or upon or within the limits of any street, alley,
sidewalk, thoroughfare or public way in the town.
      (2)   The growing and maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet
clearance over streets or less than eight feet, over sidewalks, or the growing
and maintenance of shrubbery in excess of three feet in height within the
radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any street intersects
the curb line of another street. No shrub shall be planted between the curb
line and the property lie of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the
point where the curb line of any street intersects with the curb line of
another street.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who creates, maintains or permits any nuisance of the
type described by division (A)(1) above shall be ordered to abate that nuisance
in the manner prescribed for the abatement of Class A nuisances, as provided by
§
92.25 and upon refusal or failure to do so shall be subject to the same
penalties and further liabilities as prescribed by §
92.99.
      (2)   Any person who creates, maintains or permits any nuisance of the
type described by division (A)(2) shall be ordered to abate that nuisance in
the manner and in accordance with the procedures appurtenant to the abatement
of Class B nuisances as provided by §
92.26 and, upon refusal or failure to do so, shall be subject to the same
further procedures for enforcement and/or penalties as prescribed by §
92.27 and
92.99.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner or tenants or their agents
or representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or contributed to
by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose conduct the owner or
operator is not responsible but for which conduct the owner or operator ought
to have become aware, by the exercise of reasonable care.
   (D)   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this section into effect
it is hereby made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report
the existence of nuisances to the Town Council or the Board of Metropolitan
Police Commissioners, and for this purpose the Board of Metropolitan Police
Commissioners, or other employees designated by the Council, shall be permitted
to visit, enter into or upon any building, lot, grounds or premises, within the
limits of this town to ascertain and discover any such nuisances and to make
examination thereof.
('85 Code, § 8-10-4) (Ord. 1966-C-1, passed 7-26-66; Am. Ord. 1985-C22, passed
9-16-85)
§ 94.06 UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes an underground and buried utilities
district (“area”) to be in effect and to apply throughout the town’s ROW, and
is hereinafter defined as follows:
      (1)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or above ground
utilities, utility facilities, overhead lines, or associated overhead
structures used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar and
associated services currently exist;
      (2)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication or similar and associated services; and
      (3)   All other areas of ROW or proposed ROW throughout the town, whether
or not above ground utilities or utility facilities currently exist.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above, any utility
that requires construction, placement, or use of a small cell facility in an
area designated strictly for underground or buried utilities, may submit an
application to the Works Board requesting a waiver to install new utility poles
or new wireless support structures within the area.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person,
corporation, or utility shall erect or construct within the town’s ROW, any
pole, overhead line, or associated overhead structure used or useful in
supplying electric, communication or similar associated services.
   (C)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Works Board, all
utilities located within the town’s ROW shall be placed underground and/or
buried.
   (D)   All existing overhead poles, wires, and/or utility transmission lines
may remain within the town’s ROW, but may not be replaced or relocated without
prior written authorization of the Works Board.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 4-28-17)
§ 94.07 FOOD AND BEVERAGE BUSINESS SEATING.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or endanger, or permit anything to obstruct
or endanger the free passage or proper use of the public on any street,
sidewalk, alley, or public place, except as may be provided otherwise in this
section.
   (B)   Goods, wares, and merchandise may be placed on sidewalks for such
reasonable time as may be necessary, while loading and unloading, if they are
removed within 24 hours.
   (C)   An establishment having a fixed location and in the regular business
of offering food and beverages for on-site consumption to the general public
may utilize the public sidewalk and pedestrian ways adjoining the establishment
for the purpose of providing outside seating for patrons upon the following
terms and conditions:
      (1)   The Director of Public Works is authorized to approve or disapprove
permit applications and issue permits.
      (2)   No more than 50 and one-fourth feet of the width of the public
sidewalk or pedestrian way measured perpendicularly from the building face may
be used for patron seating.
      (3)   No litter or debris shall be allowed to migrate to adjoining
sidewalk, pedestrian way, or street surfaces.
      (4)   The permit applicant shall execute an indemnification agreement, in
a form acceptable to the town, indemnifying the town against all liability
claims arising from the use of the sidewalk or pedestrian way permitted herein,
including reasonable attorney fees.
      (5)   The Director of Public Works may require the production of
certificates of insurance, naming the town as an additional named insured,
evidencing such policies of insurance, and in such amounts, as may be
determined by the Director.
      (6)   Permit holders shall be responsible for maintaining order in their
outdoor seating area. Failure to maintain order shall constitute grounds for
revocation of a permit, or denial of additional requests for permits.
      (7)   Permits shall be prominently displayed on-site and are subject to
inspection by town officials upon request.
      (8)   Permits are subject to revocation by the Director of Public Works
and/or the Town Council should the permit holder fail to comply with any of the
conditions set out herein. In addition, permit holders are subject to fines as
set out herein. Permit holders may request a hearing before the Board of Public
Works to show cause why a permit should not be revoked.
      (9)   Should a permit be revoked, the permit holder shall not be eligible
for issuance of another permit until the following calendar year.
      (10)   Should the Director of Public Works disapprove a permit
application, the applicant may appeal the Director's decision to the Board of
Public Works.
      (11)   Permit holders must follow all applicable rules and requirements
of the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission regarding outdoor seating.
   (D)   No person shall allow the temporary or permanent installation of any
signage within the public right-of-way. The Director of Public Works shall
notify the owner of a sign located within the right-of-way and provide a
reasonable time to remove the sign. Failure to remove the sign will result in
the sign being removed and destroyed.
   (E)   Anyone who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues. The
Town Attorney may file a cause of action against the property owner for failure
to pay unpaid fines.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 1-2-24)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is set forth shall be liable to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for each
day a violation continues.
APPENDIX: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ROADS AND STREETS
   
A.   Minimum standards for roads and streets
   
B.   Concrete roll curb and gutter
   
C.   Typical roll curb detail with reversed slope gutter
   
D.   Valley gutter detail
   
E.   Combined concrete curb and gutter (type II)
   
F.   Typical combined curb and gutter with reversed slope gutter
   
G.   Hamilton County Highway standard cross-section collector street without
curb
   
H.   Pipe underdrain
   
I.   Typical subdivision regulatory signs
   
J.   Subdivision street name signs
   
K.   Subdivision sign placement
   
L.   End or road markers
   
M.   Detail for cut road patching
   
N.   Typical utility locations on a local road
   
O.   Typical utility locations on a collector road
   
P.   Typical utility locations and local road crossing detail
   
Q.   Typical SSD lateral to individual lots along streets
   
R.   Typical SSD lateral to individual lots in rear yard
A.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ROADS AND STREETS.
     CLASS OF ROAD OR STREET
Item       Collector  Primary &
     Local or         Secondary
           Commercial Arterial
                               CLASS OF ROAD OR STREET
Item                                  Collector       Primary &
                               Local  or              Secondary
                                      Commercial      Arterial
Cul-de-sac maximum length (1)  600'   600'            n.a.
Cul-de-sac curb radius         50'    50'             n.a.
Maximum grade                  7% 2   5%              5%
Minimum grade (6)              0.50%  0.50%           0.50%
Design speed - mph             25     40              55
Horizontal curve radius        150'   200'            300'
Tangent between reverse curves 50'    200'            200'
Intersection angle - degree    60     75              75
Intersection offset            150'   200'            200'
Curb return radius             20'    30'             35'
Sight distance                 250'   650'            900'
AASHTO design values:
   Reliability              70–8080–90         90–95
   Standard overall deviation
      Concrete           0.35   0.35            0.35
      Flexible           0.45   0.45            0.45
   PSI loss due to traffic
      Concrete           2.2    1.7–2.2       1.7
      Flexible           2.2    1.7–2.2       1.7
Minimum pavement thickness on prepared subgrades:
                                     (Min.)          (Min.)
H.A. Surface                   1-1/2" Designed (1")   Designed (1-1/2")
H.A. Binder                    4"     Designed (4") 3 Designed (5") 4
Stone Base                     9" (5) Designed (12")  Designed (14")
   or
H.A. Surface                   1"     Designed (1")   Designed (1")
H.A. Binder                    2"     Designed (3")   Designed (2")
H.A. Base                      7"     Designed (8") 3 Designed (10") 4
   or
Plain Concrete (7)             6"     Designed (8") 3 Designed (10") 4
Stone Base
   on                       6"     Designed (6")   Designed (6")
Lime Injected sub-base
 
 
Notes:
1.   Cul-de-sac length measured from center of through-street to center of cul-de-
sac.
2.   Subject to AASHTO Standards relating to intersection proximity.
3.   Add 1" HAC binder or base or concrete for truck traffic > 10% of ADT.
4.   Add 2" HAC binder or base or concrete for truck traffic > 10% of ADT.
5.   Shall consist of 9" of #53 stone or a combination of 5" of #2 stone and 4" of
#53 stone.
6.   This minimum grade requirement shall apply to the curbline of cul-de-sacs and
other special pavement considerations.
7.   Concrete pavements utilizing a subbase material having an AASHTO Soil
Classification of A-2-6, A-2-7, A-4, A-5, A-6, A-7-5 OR A-7-6 shall have a base
course of 4" of #8 stone.
 
 
B.   CONCRETE ROLL CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.png]
C.   TYPICAL ROLL CURB DETAIL WITH REVERSED SLOPE GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1343.png]
D.   VALLEY GUTTER DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1345.png]
E.   COMBINED CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER (TYPE II).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1347.png]
F.   TYPICAL COMBINED CURB AND GUTTER WITH REVERSED SLOPE GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1349.png]
G.   HAMILTON COUNTY HIGHWAY STANDARD CROSS-SECTION COLLECTOR STREET WITHOUT
CURB.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1351.png]
H.   PIPE UNDERDRAIN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1353.png]
I.   TYPICAL SUBDIVISION REGULATORY SIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1355.png]
J.   SUBDIVISION STREET NAME SIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1357.png]
K.   SUBDIVISION SIGN PLACEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1359.png]
L.   END OF ROAD MARKERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1361.png]
M.   DETAIL FOR CUT ROAD PATCHING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1363.png]
N.   TYPICAL UTILITY LOCATIONS ON A LOCAL ROAD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1365.png]
O.   TYPICAL UTILITY LOCATIONS ON A COLLECTOR ROAD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1367.png]
P.   TYPICAL UTILITY LOCATIONS AND LOCAL ROAD CROSSING DETAIL.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1369.png]
Q.   TYPICAL SSD LATERAL TO INDIVIDUAL LOTS ALONG STREETS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1371.png]
R.   TYPICAL SSD LATERAL TO INDIVIDUAL LOTS IN REAR YARD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/85874d402fdccad97a2d4b6d2bdb53bb962d55f1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1373.png]
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS AND LIKE RANK VEGETATION
Section
   
95.01   Statutory authority
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Duty of owner
   
95.04   Notice of violation
   
95.05   Removal of weeds and/or rank vegetation by the Department
   
95.06   Tax lien
§ 95.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This act is adopted under authority of IC 36-1-3 and IC 36-7-10.1-1 through
36-7-10.1-5.
('85 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 1985-C19, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-11-1, passed
11-14-13)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Sheridan Street Department.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the real property, as found in the records of
the Hamilton County Recorder’s office.
   OWNER’S ADDRESS. The most recent mailing address of the owner and being that
address to which the Hamilton County Treasurer sends tax duplicates.
   RANK VEGETATION. Lawn grass or weeds which are permitted to grow to a height
of more than six inches from the ground on any developed residential,
commercial or industrial property (whether occupied or not) to a height of more
than one foot on any undeveloped land or land in agricultural use.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, bushes, shrubs, or
ornamental plants. Pursuant to IC 36-7-10.1-3, WEEDS and RANK VEGETATION do not
include agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture.
('85 Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 1985-C19, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2007-3-2, passed
3-27-07; Am. Ord. 2013-11-1, passed 11-14-13)
§ 95.03 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of any owner of real property within the geographical
limits of the town to cut and remove all weeds and rank vegetation growing upon
such real property when such weeds and rank vegetation exceed more than six
inches from the ground on any developed residential, commercial or industrial
real property (whether occupied or not) to a height of more than one foot from
the ground on any undeveloped real property or real property in agricultural
use.
(Ord. 2013-11-1, passed 11-14-13)
§ 95.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   In the event any owner of real property located within the
geographical limits of the town fails to perform the duties set forth in §
95.03, the Department shall notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a written notice to the owner calling for the cutting and
removal of such weeds and rank vegetation within ten calendar days (“notice of
violation”). The notice of violation shall also state the amount of penalty
included if the violation is not abated within ten calendar days. The notice of
violation becomes final ten days after notice is given.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be served on the
owner of the real property in at least two of the following manners: delivery
in person, by first class mail, and/or placement of the notice of violation in
a conspicuous place on the real estate where a violation occurs.
   (C)   (1)   As outlined in IC 36-7-10.1-3, the notice of violation shall
also state:
         (a)   The location of the violation;
         (b)   The nature of the violation; and
         (c)   The remedy sought for the violation.
      (2)   Any notices to be given hereunder by first class mail shall be
deemed sufficiently given when placed in an envelope directed to the owner at
the owner’s address as defined in §
95.02 and deposited in a United States Post Office mailbox postage prepaid.
   (D)   A continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the
time of the time of abatement instead of by certified mail, first class mail,
or equivalent service as required under division (B). A continuous abatement
notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of violation was
provided may be abated by the town or its contractors.
   (E)   Emergency action. No section of this chapter shall prevent the town by
and through the Department from executing emergency action as set forth in IC
36-7-9-9.
(‘85 Code § 5-2-4) (Am. Ord. 2013-11-1, passed 11-14-13)
§ 95.05 REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND/OR RANK VEGETATION BY THE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   If the violation has not been abated by the owner as set forth in the
notice of violation, the town acting by and through the Department may enter
the property and abate the violation utilizing its own employees and equipment
or a contractor engaged by the town.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an invoice to the owner for the
costs incurred in removing the weeds or rank vegetation, including
administrative costs associated with abating the violation, and a penalty
amount of $250 for violating this chapter (“invoice”).
   (C)   Within ten calendar days from the date of the invoice, the owner
shall:
      (1)   Pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer all amounts owed as reflected in
the invoice; or
      (2)   File an appeal with the Town Council in accordance with division
(D) below.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   An appeal must be in writing and set forth the address of the
property; the name of the property owner; the basis for the appeal and any
documentation supporting the appeal.
      (2)   The appeal must be filed with the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   The Town Council will consider any appeal at a regularly scheduled
Town Council meeting.
      (4)   The Town acting by and through the Department will not enter an
owner’s real property if the owner initiates an appeal and the Department will
not abate a violation of this chapter until the Town Council has heard the
owner’s appeal.
      (5)   The following reasons will be deemed just cause for an appeal and
just cause to rescind the notice of violation:
         (a)   The owner has abated the violation as set forth in the notice of
violation.
         (b)   The owner has made provisions to abate the violation set forth
in the notice of violation and the owner satisfies the Town Council that the
violation will be abated within a time certain agreeable to the Town Council.
      (6)   The following reasons will not be just cause for rescinding a
notice of violation or opposing an owner’s appeal:
         (a)   The owner has sold the property pursuant to a land contract.
         (b)   The owner has rented the property to another individual/entity
that is responsible for maintaining the real property.
         (c)   The property is in foreclosure proceedings.
('85 Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 1985-C-19, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-11-1, passed
11-14-13)
§ 95.06 TAX LIEN.
   If the owner fails to pay the invoice or file a written appeal within ten
calendar days or fails to pay the invoice within ten calendar days of the Town
Council’s determination not to rescind the notice of violation, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall certify to the Hamilton County Auditor the amount incurred by
the town to abate the violation, including the administrative costs associated
with abating the violation (“certified amount”). The Auditor shall place the
certified amount on the tax duplicate against such real property and the amount
shall be collected as taxes are generally collect and when collected shall be
disbursed to the town for deposit in the General Fund.
('85 Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 1985-C-19, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2013-11-1, passed
11-14-13)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy statement
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
96.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
96.09   Exemptions
   
96.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 96.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Sheridan to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(IC 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to IC 22-9-
1-4 et seq. (IC 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
IC 22-9.5-6. (IC 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04 through
96.08 or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (IC 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual with the status of such family being further
defined under the term FAMILIAL STATUS. Also, pursuant to CFR Part 5, the
definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or
perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its
members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under IC 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code (IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include
an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (IC 22-9.5-2-10
(c)).
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries. (IC 22-
9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (IC 22-
9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
Editor’s note:
   IC 22-9.5-2-10 was repealed by P.L. 99-2007, Sec. 224.
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
96.09 and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
96.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if, such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04( C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and 96.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (F)(3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a) For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining
a dwelling; or
         (b) Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state of federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
§ 96.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Town Council of the Town of
Sheridan, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because of
a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by Complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”)
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and the Town
Council, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) of this section to the Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All departments of the town shall administer their departments,
programs and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Town Council and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council, or the Town Council’s designee, shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 93-9-1, passed 9-28-93; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-25-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
      
111.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   TRANSIENT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
Section
   
110.01   Consent to issue liquor retailer permits; limitation or revocation
§ 110.01 CONSENT TO ISSUE LIQUOR RETAILER PERMITS; LIMITATION OR REVOCATION.
   Pursuant to IC 7.1-3-9-4, the Town Council hereby consents to the issuance
by the Alcoholic Beverage Commission of the state of liquor retailer permits to
persons and premises within the town otherwise duly qualified for those permits
under the provisions of IC 7.1-3-9. The Council further makes a covenant to the
state and holders of or applicants for liquor retailer permits that the Council
will not revoke the consent for a minimum of two years and 60 days after the
effective date of this section.
('85 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 1985-C13, passed 9-16-85)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Statutory authority
   
111.02   Definitions
Licenses
   
111.15   Exhibitor's license required
   
111.16   Amusement machine license required
   
111.17   License application required
   
111.18   License application fees; refund of fees; pro-rationing
   
111.19   Investigation of applicant; referral to Town Marshal and Town Council
   
111.20   Approval or denial of license by Town Council; causes for denial;
notice and hearing upon denial
   
111.21   Term of licenses
   
111.22   Issuance and fixation of stickers; tampering with stickers
   
111.23   Display of exhibitor's license
   
111.24   Non-transfer of license as to persons or location; transfer of machine
license to new machine; transfer fee
   
111.25   Terms and conditions of license; operating regulations
   
111.26   Inspection of location
   
111.27   Non-compliance with terms and conditions of license; suspension or
revocation; notice and hearing
   
111.28   Hearing rights upon denial, suspension or revocation of license
   
111.29   License renewal; application procedure; additional fee for late
application
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted by the Town Council pursuant to the authority
granted it by IC 36-1-6-2, 36-1- 6-4, 36-8-2-10, 36-5-2-9, 36-5-4-11, 36-8-2-4,
36-8-2-9, 36-8-2-8, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-2-15 and 36-5-2-9.
('85 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT LOCATION.
      (1)   Any place of business or an establishment open to the public
described by any of the following:
         (a)   Where amusement machines or devices are maintained and operated.
         (b)   A bowling alley.
         (c)   A shooting gallery.
         (d)   An establishment where dancing by the public is permitted (to
either live or recorded music), exclusive of a dance studio or dancing school,
the purpose of which is to teach dancing.
         (e)   A skating rink.
         (f)   A motion picture theater.
      (2)   The term does not include recreational facilities or events
operated or sponsored by governmental entities, by non-profit charitable,
educational, religious or civic organizations or by private membership
organizations which are not open to the general public.
   AMUSEMENT MACHINE or DEVICE.
      (1)   Any electrical, electronic or mechanical apparatus or device which
is operated by insertion of a coin or token, or for the use of which any charge
is assessed by the exhibitor or owner, and which is designed to be used for one
of the following purposes:
         (a)   To play games or contests.
         (b)   To view slide, motion picture or videotape shows.
      (2)   A pool table, billiard table or similar apparatus maintained by a
public or commercial establishment for the use of patrons, whether or not a
specific charge is assessed for its use.
      (3)   A fixed table, bar or similar apparatus or structure which is
specifically designed and laid out for playing one or more games or contests,
is maintained by a public or commercial establishment and is made available to
patrons of the establishment for the purpose of playing those games or contests
with or without specific charge.
      (4)   The term does not refer to vending machines, machines used solely
for music (e.g., jukeboxes and the like), devices used solely for storage or
retrieval of data and information, apparatus for receiving and viewing public
broadcast or cable-distributed radio and television programming by broadcasters
and cable companies licensed by the Federal Communications Commission or small
portable games or game equipment made available to patrons of establishments
without charge or upon payment only of a refundable security deposit. AMUSEMENT
MACHINE and AMUSEMENT DEVICE are used interchangeably and synonymously
hereinafter and either term has the full scope of meaning as provided above.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person operating a place of business or an establishment open
to the public (with or without an admission charge), which place of business or
establishment:
      (1)   Is a place wherein one or more amusement devices are maintained and
operated.
      (2)   Otherwise operates as an amusement location, as herein defined.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of renting
out or placing amusement devices in any location within the town.
('85 Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85)
LICENSES
§ 111.15 EXHIBITOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No exhibitor shall display amusement devices for use or otherwise
operate an amusement location without obtaining an exhibitor's (amusement
location) license for each such location. The license shall bear on the face
the following information:
      (1)   The issuance and expiration date;
      (2)   The exhibitor's full name and business address; and,
      (3)   If applicable, the number of amusement devices being placed for
exhibition in the amusement location.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to own or operate any
amusement location without an amusement location license issued by the town.
('85 Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 AMUSEMENT MACHINE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No amusement machine shall be operated or placed in any public place or in a
business of any kind, either on public or private property, where a charge is
made to use or play the machine or device, without an amusement machine license
issued by the town, which license shall bear on its face the date of issuance,
the serial number of the machine and its model, the expiration date of the
license, the exhibitor's full name and business address and the machine owner's
full name and business address. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
allow to be operated in any public place any amusement machine or device
without an amusement machine license issued by the town when required under
this section.
('85 Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   The application for an exhibitor's license or an amusement machine license
shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer and contain the following
information:
   (A)   General information. This division applies to either an exhibitor's or
amusement machine license application. The application shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the establishment for which the license is
sought;
      (3)   The name and address of the owner of the establishment, if other
than the applicant;
      (4)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the operators or
managers of the establishment who will be on duty during the hours when the
establishment is open to the public;
      (5)   The licensed activity to be conducted at the establishment;
      (6)   Any other principal business activities conducted at the
establishment (e.g., food/bar service, retail trade and the like);
      (7)   Any other information deemed necessary by the town and requested on
the application form.
   (B)   Amusement machine license. This division applies only to applications
for an amusement machine license. In addition to the information required under
division (A) above, an application for an amusement machine license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The date of issuance and expiration of the exhibitor's license of
the establishment;
      (2)   The number of amusement devices to be placed and operated under the
license;
      (3)   For each amusement device encompassed by the license:
         (a)   The type of device;
         (b)   The model and serial number (if any);
         (c)   The approximate age;
         (d)   The name and address of the owner, and if applicable, the name
and address of any other individual, company, corporation or trust having any
right, title or interest in the device; and,
         (e)   If anyone named in division (d) above is other than an
individual person, the names and addresses of the principals, officers,
directors, trustees and the like of the corporation, company, firm, trust, as
applicable.
('85 Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 LICENSE APPLICATION FEES; REFUND OF FEES; PRO-RATIONING.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect the license fee prescribed below at
the time the application for a license is made:
      (1)   Exhibitor's license, $50 per year.
      (2)   Amusement machine license, $25 per year.
   (B)   In the event of an application for an amusement machine license to go
into effect at any time after January 1 of any calendar, the applicant shall be
required to pay for the license a pro rata part for the portion of the year
remaining, up to December 31 of that year; provided, any portion of a calendar
month shall be counted as one month in the computations of time for that
remaining portion of the year. However, the fee for an exhibitor's license
shall be for a calendar year or any part thereof and no part of the same shall
be pro-rated. If an exhibitor's license is denied, no part of the fee shall be
returned to the applicant and the full fee shall be kept by the town to cover
its expenses of investigation. If an amusement machine license is denied, the
fee, less $25 for the cost to the town of the license investigation and
inspections, shall be returned to the applicant.
('85 Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; REFERRAL TO TOWN MARSHAL AND TOWN COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the fiscal officer shall
forward it to the Town Marshal, who shall conduct an investigation concerning
the truth of the facts stated in the application, the character of the
applicant and the condition of the premises upon which the proposed licensed
activity is to take place. The Marshal shall give the results of his or her
investigation to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall forward it along with the
application to the Town Council and its President for review.
('85 Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 111.20 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE BY TOWN COUNCIL; CAUSES FOR DENIAL;
NOTICE AND HEARING UPON DENIAL.
   (A)   The Town Council and its President may approve the application for a
license unless it finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime, if the crime is
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the
business, profession or occupation for which the license is to be issued;
      (2)   The applicant has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with intent to substantially benefit himself or another, or
substantially injure another;
      (3)   The applicant knowingly made a false statement of fact required to
be revealed in the application for the license, or in any amendment or report
to be made thereunder;
      (4)   The premises and the amusement devices are located within 300 feet
of a public playground or public or private school of elementary, junior high
or high school grade;
      (5)   No attendant will be on duty and present on the premises at all
times when it is open for business and has customers using the machines or
devices;
      (6)   The applicant refuses to abide by each and every term of this
chapter; or
      (7)   Issuance of the license would be inconsistent with the public
health, safety and general welfare of the town and its citizens.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the town
reserves the right to place a limit on the number of amusement device which may
be placed pursuant to a license application if the number of amusement devices
within the town becomes unmanageable, unreasonable, or detrimental to the
public welfare. Upon denial of the license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give
written notice of that action to the applicant by certified mail, stating the
reason therefor. An applicant whose license is denied is entitled to a hearing
in the manner provided by §
111.28.
('85 Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 111.21 TERM OF LICENSES.
   All licenses issued under this chapter, unless specified otherwise on the
license, shall be issued for the duration of the calendar year for which they
were issued and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of that calendar year.
('85 Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 ISSUANCE AND FIXATION OF STICKERS; TAMPERING WITH STICKERS.
   Upon approval of an amusement machine license application, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue, in addition to the amusement machine license, individual
license stickers for each amusement device included within the amusement
machine license, which stickers shall contain the name of the exhibitor, the
exhibitor's license number and the serial number of the amusement device or a
general description of the type of device if it has not serial number. Each
sticker shall be permanently affixed to the amusement device for which it was
assigned in a conspicuous place. No owner shall rent or place and no exhibitor
shall display or operate any amusement device which does not have an individual
license sticker as provided in this section. It shall be a violation of this
chapter to tamper, remove, alter, or device any license or sticker placed on a
machine or device pursuant to this section.
('85 Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 DISPLAY OF EXHIBITOR'S LICENSE.
   An exhibitor's license issued under this chapter shall be kept and posted,
at all times, in a visible and conspicuous place on the premises where the
licensed activity is conducted.
('85 Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 NON-TRANSFER OF LICENSE AS TO PERSONS OR LOCATION; TRANSFER OF MACHINE
LICENSE TO NEW MACHINE; TRANSFER FEE.
   (A)   No license issued hereunder may be transferred to another person.
   (B)   If the ownership or operation of the licensed establishment is
transferred to a person other than the original licensee, a new license must be
applied for by the new owner or operator within 30 days, after which time the
original license shall cease to be valid, regardless of its stated expiration
date.
   (C)   Any and all licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only for
the location indicated on the license certificate.
      (1)   When the licensee shall change his or her place of business to
another location within the town or moves a machine to another location, he or
she shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for issuance of a new license
certificate indicating the changed location.
      (2)   The new license must be approved, after an investigation by the
Town Marshal, by the Town Council and its President.
   (D)   If a licensed amusement device or machine is removed from the premises
prior to the expiration of the license and replaced by an unlicensed machine or
device, the unexpired term remaining under the license for the removed machine
may be transferred to the unlicensed machine upon the payment of a $10 transfer
fee by the applicant and the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license for the
replacement machine.
      (1)   A license issued hereunder for a replacement machine shall expire
on December 31 of calendar year.
      (2)   In lieu of paying a transfer fee, the applicant may obtain a new
license for the replacement machine up the payment of the appropriate license
fee as required under this chapter.
   (E)   If the licensee ceases to conduct the licensed activity prior to the
expiration date of the license, or if a licensed amusement device or machine is
removed from the premises prior to the expiration of the license and not
replaced by another machine or device, no part of the license fee for the
unexpired term of the license shall be returned to the applicant.
('85 Code, § 3-1-12) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   All persons licensed under this chapter shall be subject to the regulations
of the Town Council. In addition to the other terms and conditions contained in
this chapter, any licenses issued hereunder shall be conditional on and subject
to the following:
   (A)   Enforcement of truancy laws.  It shall be a violation of this chapter
for an exhibitor or employee to allow a child under 16 years of age who is
subject to compulsory school attendance laws of the state and who is not
accompanied by a parent, custodian or legal guardian to be present in an
amusement location between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on a day when
that child's school is in session.
   (B)   Enforcement of minor curfew. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for an exhibitor or an exhibitor's employee to allow a person who has not
reached the age of 18 years to be present in an amusement location after the
hours established by statute or town ordinance for juvenile curfew unless
accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, custodian or an adult specified by the
child's parent, legal guardian or custodian [see §
130.20 et seq.].
   (C)   Use of pool/billiard tables by minors restricted. No person operating
an amusement location wherein pool or billiard tables are maintained or other
games requiring the use of cue and balls, shall permit any person under 18
years of age to use those tables or games except in the company of a parent or
guardian.
   (D)   Notice of certain regulations required. It shall be a violation of
this chapter to operate an amusement location unless a sign is conspicuously
posted inside the location stating the regulations applicable under division
(A), (B) and if applicable, (C) above.
   (E)   Full-time adult attendant required. It shall be a violation of this
chapter to operate an amusement location without having a full-time adult
operator and/or attendant on duty at all time when the same is open to the
public and/or when customers are present on the premises.
   (F)   Persons operating amusement machines required to be visible. It shall
be a violation of this chapter to allow a patron to be present in or operate an
amusement machine unless he or she is totally visible.
   (G)   Security requirement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for an
exhibitor or the exhibitor's employee to operate an amusement location without
providing adequate protection and security to persons visiting the premises or
to property of persons located on the premises.
   (H)   Enforcement of orderly conduct. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for an exhibitor or the exhibitor's employee to permit persons to
congregate in a disturbing manner on the premises of his or her place of
business.
   (I)   Proximity of amusement devices to schools and playgrounds restricted.
No holder of any license issued under this chapter shall cause or allow any
amusement device to be located, operated or maintained within 300 feet of the
nearest street entrance to or exit from any public playground or public or
private school of elementary, junior high or high school level.
   (J)   Valuable inducements and payoffs prohibited. No holder of any license
issued under this chapter or his or her employee, shall allow or permit any
award, payoff or delivery of anything of value or representing or exchangeable
or redeemable for anything of value in any play, contest, tournament or
individual's operation of an amusement device and it shall be a violation of
this chapter for any exhibitor or his or her employee to cause or permit or
allow the same.
   (K)   General compliance with laws and ordinances; operation of illegal
devices prohibited. No exhibitor or exhibitor's employee shall violate any
statute or town ordinance, including this chapter, or allow any other person to
commit a violation on the premises of the exhibitor's place of business.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to permit the licensing, maintenance or
operation of any amusement device which is contrary to any of the laws of the
state or the United States, or the town, nor to permit the operation of any
amusement device licensed under this chapter in such manner as to be contrary
to any of the laws.
('85 Code, § 3-1-13) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against city regulations, see
Ch. 130
§ 111.26 INSPECTION OF LOCATION.
   The Town Marshal and the Marshal's deputies shall be authorized to make
periodic inspection of the premises and of amusement machines or devices for
the purpose of ascertaining whether the applicant is abiding by each and every
term of the licenses under this chapter, as well as other ordinances of the
town and the laws of the state. The applicant, as well as the applicant's
employees and agents, shall cooperate with the Marshal and shall provide access
to the premises and the machines or devices.
('85 Code, § 3-1-14) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Town Council President if there is a finding that the person complained of has:
      (1)    Willfully violated a term or condition of his or her license or
the terms and provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Willfully done or permitted an act in violation of a state statute
or an ordinance of the town relating to the business licensed;
      (3)   Made misrepresentations or failed to make correct and full
disclosures and statements on the application for a license or in responding to
any question posed to him by an officer of the town;
      (4)   Conducted the licensed business in such a manner as to constitute a
threat to the public health, safety and general welfare; or
      (5)   The exhibitor or the exhibitor's employee has permitted any act or
conduct prohibited by §
111.25.
   (B)   Upon revocation or suspension of a license under this section, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall give written notice of that action to the licensee by
certified mail stating therein the reasons. A licensee whose license is revoked
or suspended is entitled to a hearing in the manner provided by §
111.28. Suspension or revocation of the license is in addition to any penalties
that may apply under §
111.99 for violating the provisions of this chapter.
('85 Code, § 3-1-15) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 HEARING RIGHTS UPON DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any applicant whose application is denied under §
111.20 or any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked under §
111.27 may, within ten days after the mailing of the notice, request a hearing
on the action before the Town Council which may reverse, modify or affirm its
or the President's prior decision. If no request for a hearing is made within
the ten-day period, the decision of the Council and/or its President shall be
final.
('85 Code, § 3-1-16) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 LICENSE RENEWAL; APPLICATION PROCEDURE; ADDITIONAL FEE FOR LATE
APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to continue business after the expiration of the
license period shall file an application for renewal not less than 30 days
prior to the expiration of the license period. The fiscal officer may accept an
application for renewal after the time specified above, if the application is
filed before the expiration of the former license, provided, the license fee in
that case shall be the renewal fee plus 10% thereof. The fiscal officer may
accept an application for renewal filed after the expiration of the former
license, provided, the license fee in that case shall be the renewal fee plus
25%. All renewal fees hereunder shall be identical to the fees for the original
licenses which are set out in §
111.18, plus late fees, if any.
('85 Code, § 3-1-17) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any provisions of this
chapter, or who undertakes, permits or allows an act or conduct prohibited
herein, shall, upon conviction, be punished with a minimum fine of $25 and a
maximum fine of $2,500 in addition to costs. A separate violation shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. A minimum fine imposed hereunder cannot be waived or suspended. In
addition to the foregoing, the town is empowered to obtain a restraining order
and/or a permanent injunction against any person who shall be in violation of
this chapter. A person against whom the town recovers a judgement shall pay all
costs of the court action and the town's attorney fees.
('85 Code, § 3-1-18) (Ord. 1983-1, passed 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1985-C12, passed 9-
16-85)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Grant of authority to operate cable television system and term of
franchise; non-exclusivity
   
112.04   Filing of written acceptance by company
   
112.05   Compliance with laws, ordinances and regulations
   
112.06   Indemnification of town; insurance requirements
   
112.07   Deadline for commencement of service; extension of service area
   
112.08   General standard of service; non-liability
   
112.09   Free service to Town Hall
   
112.10   Rates and charges
   
112.11   Access to town records and other information; filing of rules and
regulations with town Clerk-Treasurer
   
112.12   Complaint and problem resolution
   
112.13   Equal employment
   
112.14   Prohibition of sales or service of radios, televisions and the like
   
112.15   Franchise fee
   
112.16   Assignment or transfer of franchise; restriction; procedure
Construction Standards and Requirements
   
112.30   Supervision by town
   
112.31   Compliance with National Electrical Code
   
112.32   Disturbance of existing properties and facilities; restoration
   
112.33   Use of existing utility poles when available; when underground
placement available
Maintenance
   
112.45   Authority of company to trim trees
   
112.46   Temporary removal of wires to permit moving buildings
   
112.47   Relocation to conform with street modifications
   
112.48   Vacation of streets or utility easements; removal of cable system and
restoration of property
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Sheridan Cable
Television Franchise.”
('85 Code, § 4-7-1) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A system of coaxial cables, wave guides or other
conductors and equipment for the reception, amplification and distribution of
television, radio or other signals to subscribing members of the public for a
fee.
   COMPANY. The grantee of rights under this chapter.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GROSS SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE. All compensation paid by a subscriber for the
sale of the company's monthly basic television services. This does not include
revenue derived from paid television program charges, leased channels, pay-
television service; nor does it include any sales or excise tax.
('85 Code, § 4-7-2) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.03 GRANT OF AUTHORITY TO OPERATE CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM AND TERM OF
FRANCHISE; NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the town to the company, for a period of 15
years from and after July 29, 1989, or for the life of the indebtedness of any
financing secured for operation in the town, whichever is longer:
      (1)   The right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain a
cable television system for the reception, amplification and distribution of
video and/or audio signals to subscribing members of the public for a fee; and,
      (2)   The right and privilege to construct, operate and maintain the
cable television system in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, alleys, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated within
the corporate limits of the town and all extensions thereof and additions
thereto in the town.
   (B)   In connection with the right and privilege herein granted, the Town
Council has examined and approved the legal, character, financial, technical
and other qualifications of the company, as well as the adequacy and
feasibility of its construction arrangements, as part of a public proceeding
affording due process. The right to use and occupy the streets, alleys, public
ways and places for the purpose herein set forth shall not be exclusive and the
town reserves the right to grant a similar use of the streets, alleys, public
ways and places to any person at any time during the period of this franchise.
('85 Code, § 4-7-3) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.04 FILING OF WRITTEN ACCEPTANCE BY COMPANY.
   The company shall, within 30 days after July 9, 1980, file in the office of
the Town Clerk a written acceptance of this franchise. Failure on the part of
the company to file that written notice within the time shall be deemed an
abandonment and rejection of the rights conferred hereby and this franchise
shall thereupon be null and void. The acceptance shall be unqualified and shall
be construed to be an acceptance of all the terms, conditions and restrictions
contained in this franchise.
('85 Code, § 4-7-4) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.05 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   The company shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be
subject to al lawful exercises of police power of the town and shall comply
with all valid local, state and federal regulations, including the rules and
regulations of the FCC. Any amendments or modifications of Section 76.31 of the
Rules of the FCC shall be incorporated in this franchise within one year of the
adoption of that modification or at the time of the renewal of this franchise,
whichever occurs first.
('85 Code, § 4-7-5) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.06 INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN; INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The company shall indemnify, protect and save the town harmless from
and against any and all losses, costs or expenses resulting from damage to any
property or bodily injury or death to any person, including payments made under
any worker's compensation law which arise out of or occur by reason of the
exercise by the company of the rights granted in this franchise.
   (B)   The company shall carry insurance to protect itself and the town from
and against all claims, demands, actions, judgements, costs, expenses and
liabilities which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by
reason of that loss, injury or damage. The insurance policy shall specifically
provided that the town shall be a named insured. The amounts of that insurance
against liability due to physical damage to property shall be not less than
$50,000 as to any one claim and not less than $200,000 aggregate in any single
policy year; and against liability due to bodily injury or to death of persons,
not less than $100,000, as to any one person and not less than $300,000 as to
all such claims arising from any one accident.
   (C)   The company shall also carry insurance as it deems necessary to
protect it and the town from any and all claims under the worker's compensation
laws in effect that may be applicable to the company. All insurance required by
this section shall be and remain in force and effect for the entire period of
this franchise. The policies of insurance, or a certified copy or copies
thereof, shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
('85 Code, § 4-7-6) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.07 DEADLINE FOR COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE; EXTENSION OF SERVICE AREA.
   The company shall construct a substantial portion of its cable system and
commence cable television operations within one year after it has received a
certificate of compliance from the FCC and it shall thereafter equitably and
reasonably extend the system so as to enable it to render service to all
feasible areas within the town within three years after it has received a
certificate of compliance from the FCC. The company shall apply for the
certificate within 90 days from July 9, 1980.
('85 Code, § 4-7-16) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.08 GENERAL STANDARD OF SERVICE; NON-LIABILITY.
   The company shall, while operating under this franchise, maintain efficient
cable television service in the town. However, the company shall not be liable
for loss or damage caused by interruption or failure of service due to accident
or breakdown to line or equipment, strike, riot, act of God or the public enemy
or such other causes as are beyond its control, or due to shutdowns for
reasonable periods to make repairs to equipment; but the company shall, in such
cases, exercise proper diligence in repairing that equipment and resume
operation of the same without unnecessary delay.
('85 Code, § 4-7-16) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.09 FREE SERVICE TO TOWN HALL.
   The company agrees to and shall furnish, without installation charge or
monthly service fee, a free connection to the Town Hall.
('85 Code, § 4-7-17) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.10 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates or charges which the company assesses its subscribers for cable
television services shall be, at all times, fair and reasonable.
('85 Code, § 4-7-18) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.11 ACCESS TO TOWN RECORDS AND OTHER INFORMATION; FILING OF RULES AND
REGULATIONS WITH TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   The town shall have access, at all reasonable hours, to all of the company's
plans, contracts and engineering, accounting, financial, statistical, customer
and service records relating to the property and the operation of the company
and to all other records required to be kept hereunder. A copy of any an all
rules, regulations, terms and conditions adopted by the company for conduct of
its business shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and a copy also shall
be available for public inspection at the office of the company.
('85 Code, § 4-7-19) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.12 COMPLAINT AND PROBLEM RESOLUTION.
   The company has adopted and the Town Council has approved procedures for the
investigation and resolution of complaints regarding its cable television
operations. Notice of the procedures for reporting and resolving complaints
shall be given to each subscriber at the time of initial subscription to the
cable television system operated by the company. Further, the company shall
have a local business office or agent in the town for the purpose of receiving
notice of, investigating and seeing that the proper steps are taken to effect
the resolution of any problems relating to service or other aspects of its
cable television operations. The local manager shall have primary
responsibility for the continuing administration of this franchise and for the
implementation of the procedures of this section.
('85 Code, § 4-7-20) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.13 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Equal opportunity in employment shall be afforded all qualified
persons by the company and no person shall be discriminated against because of
race, color, religion, national origin or sex. An equal opportunity notice will
be posted in the office of the company which states as follows:
      Equal Opportunity Employer — discrimination because of sex, race, color,
religion or national origin is prohibited and you may notify the Equal
Opportunity Commission or the Federal Communications Commission if you believe
you have been discriminated against.
   (B)   Those in positions to hire will be specifically instructed to examine
all hiring policies to make certain those policies comply with the foregoing
declarations.
('85 Code, § 4-7-21) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.14 PROHIBITION OF SALES OR SERVICE OF RADIOS, TELEVISIONS AND THE LIKE.
   This franchise shall not, in any way, be construed as a license or permit to
the company to engage in the sale or service of radio or television sets. As
part of the consideration for the granting of this franchise, the company shall
not engage in the sale or service of television sets, appliances or parts.
('85 Code, § 4-7-22) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.15 FRANCHISE FEE.
   The company shall pay to the town, for and in consideration of the right and
privilege to conduct cable television operations pursuant to this franchise, an
annual fee in an amount equal to 3% of its annual gross subscriber revenues
derived from its cable television operations in the town, with each year's fee
due and payable to the Town Clerk-Treasurer by January 31 for the preceding
calendar year. In the event of revocation or termination of this franchise, the
first annual fee payment shall be prorated from the immediately preceding
January 1 to the date of termination of service.
('85 Code, § 4-7-23) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.16 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE; RESTRICTION; PROCEDURE.
   The franchise and rights granted herein shall be a privilege to be held in
personal trust and shall not be assigned, transferred, sold or disposed of
without prior consent of the Town Council, expressed by resolution. That
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, provided the proposed assignee
agrees to comply with all the provisions of this chapter and is able to provide
proof of financial responsibility and other qualifications satisfactory to the
Council. No consent by the Council shall be required for a transfer in trust,
mortgage or other instrument of hypothecation to secure an indebtedness of the
company. The consent of the Town Council to any sale or other transfer shall
not constitute a waiver or release of any of the rights of the town under this
chapter.
('85 Code, § 4-7-24) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.30 SUPERVISION BY TOWN.
   The town shall have the right to supervise all construction and installation
work performed subject to the provisions of this franchise and to make the
inspections as it shall find necessary to ensure compliance with governing
ordinances.
('85 Code, § 4-7-7) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.31 COMPLIANCE WITH NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The construction, maintenance and use of the company's cable television
system shall comply with the standards for materials and engineering and all
other provisions of the National Electric Safety Code and the National
Electrical Code.
('85 Code, § 4-7-8) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.32 DISTURBANCE OF EXISTING PROPERTIES AND FACILITIES; RESTORATION.
   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by
the company within the town shall be located so as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of all streets, alleys and other public ways
and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys or other
public ways and places. In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, the company shall, at its own cost and expense and
in a manner approved by the town, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk,
driveway and surface of any street or alley disturbed to as good condition as
before that work was commenced and shall maintain the restoration in an
approved condition for a period of three years.
('85 Code, § 4-7-9) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.33 USE OF EXISTING UTILITY POLES WHEN AVAILABLE; WHEN UNDERGROUND
PLACEMENT AVAILABLE.
   The company shall, whenever possible and practicable, use the poles owned
and maintained by the town and/or the utility companies which serve the town.
When the use of those poles is not practicable or satisfactory and rental
agreements cannot be entered into with those parties, the company shall have
the right to erect and maintain its own poles, as may be necessary for the
proper construction and maintenance of the television distribution system.
However, in all sections of the town where the cables, wires or like facilities
of public utilities are presently placed underground or are required to be so
placed underground at any time in the future, the company shall place its
cables, wires or other like facilities underground to the maximum extent
technology reasonably permits the company to do so.
('85 Code, § 4-7-10) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
MAINTENANCE
§ 112.45 AUTHORITY OF COMPANY TO TRIM TREES.
   The company shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging any
street, alley or other public way so as to prevent the branches of those trees
from coming in contact with its wires, cables or other equipment.
('85 Code, § 4-7-11) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.46 TEMPORARY REMOVAL OF WIRES TO PERMIT MOVING BUILDINGS.
   The company shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the town, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of that temporary removal, raising or lowering
of wires shall be paid by the persons requesting the same and the company shall
have the authority to require that payment in advance. The company shall be
given not less than 120 hours advance notice to arrange for those temporary
wire changes.
('85 Code, § 4-7-12) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.47 RELOCATION TO CONFORM WITH STREET MODIFICATIONS.
   In the event that at any time during the period of this franchise the town
shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or width of any street, alley
or other public way, the company, upon reasonable notice by the town, shall
remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and other system fixtures at its own expense.
('85 Code, § 4-7-13) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
§ 112.48 VACATION OF STREETS OR UTILITY EASEMENTS; REMOVAL OF CABLE SYSTEM AND
RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   In the event any street, alley, public highway or utility easement or any
portion thereof used by the company shall be vacated by the town, or the use
thereof discontinued by the company during the term of this franchise, the
company shall forthwith remove its facilities therefrom unless specifically
permitted to leave them there, and upon the removal thereof restore, repair or
reconstruct the street area where that removal has occurred in the condition as
may be required by the town. In the event of that failure, neglect, refusal of
the company, after 30 days notice by the Town Council to repair, improve or
maintain the street proportions, the town may do that work or cause it to be
done and the cost thereof as found and declared by the town shall be paid by
the company and collection may be by court action or otherwise.
('85 Code, § 4-7-14) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 7-9-80; Am. Ord., passed 3-9-83)
CHAPTER 113: TRANSIENT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Statutory authority
   
113.02   Definitions
Licenses
   
113.15   Required; application
   
113.16   Exemption
   
113.17   Issuance; terms; fee; non-assumption of liability
   
113.18   Carrying and showing
   
113.19   Non-transfer; non-distributive
   
113.20   Transient vending/soliciting activities; condition of licenses;
applicability to non-licensed transient vendors and solicitors
   
113.21   Suspension or revocation; service of notice; appeal; restriction on
application for new license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of IC 25-37-1-11, IC 36-8-2-10
and IC 36-8-2-11.
('85 Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMODITY. Any goods, wares, merchandise, produce, tickets, subscriptions,
memberships, insurance policies, securities, service contracts, other
intangibles or any real property or interests therein.
   RESIDENT INDEPENDENT SALES AGENT. A person who has been a continuous
resident of the town for a minimum of 90 days and who:
      (1)   Does not maintain a store, business office or other regular place
of business; but,
      (2)   Markets within the town:
         (a)   Commodities which are produced or manufactured by himself or
herself or members of his or her immediate family; or
         (b)   Commodities produced and manufactured by others and sold locally
by that person under franchise, license or distributorship; and
      (3)   The person has substantial control over and responsibility for the
delivery and character of the commodity being sold by him or her, including the
power to refund the purchase price and/or replace or remedy defects in any
commodities if they are not properly delivered or are unsatisfactory to the
customer.
   TRANSIENT SOLICITOR. Any person who:
      (1)   Is not a resident of the town; or
      (2)   Is not acting as a direct employee or agent of a person described
by divisions (A) or (B) of the definition of TRANSIENT VENDOR  and who
distributes within the town merchandise samples, handbills, or other
advertising matter designed or clearly intended to promote the sale, lease or
other transaction in any commodity even through that commodity may not be
immediately and directly offered by the solicitor. However, the term does not
include publishers, distributors or deliverers of newspapers, magazines and
like publications although incidentally including advertising or other
promotion of commodities, nor persons distributing advertising, promotional
materials or samples of commodities through the mail.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who:
      (1)   Does not maintain a fixed and established store, business office or
similar place of business within the town;
      (2)   Is not a resident independent sales agent; or
      (3)   Is not acting as a direct employee of a person described under
divisions (A) or (B) above;
and directly offers for sale, lease or otherwise transacts for valuable
consideration in any commodity either for immediate or future delivery.
TRANSIENT VENDOR does not include persons offering commodities purely through
mail or media advertising, mail order catalogs or telephone solicitations
originating outside the town.
('85 Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
LICENSES
§ 113.15 REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
113.16, no person may act as a transient vendor or transient solicitor within
the town without first obtaining a license from the town. That license shall be
in addition to any county license which the person may have obtained under the
provisions of IC 25-37-1. To obtain a license, written application must be made
to the Clerk-Treasurer, providing the following information:
      (1)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and business address of any person, company or corporation
whom the applicant represents or serves as agent;
      (3)   The kind of commodities to be sold, promoted or advertised by the
applicant.
      (4)   The date or dates when the licensed activity will be conducted;
and,
      (5)   The manner of conducting the activity (e.g., door-to-door,
temporary sales room or lot, telephone solicitation and so on.)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may demand reasonable identification or
information on the application. If in doubt about any identification or
information on the application, the Clerk-Treasurer may ask the Board of
Metropolitan Police Commissioners to investigate and verify that identification
or information before the license is granted. It shall be a penal violation for
an applicant to knowingly provide false or incomplete information or
identification.
('85 Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The requirements of a license under §
113.15 and payment of a fee under §
113.17 do not apply to the following described persons or selling activities:
      (1)   Sales by manufacturer's representatives or wholesale distributors
to businesses, governmental entities, institutions and like non-residential
establishments, of commodities for use or consumption in the course of that
establishment's activities.
      (2)   Sales to dealers, for resale, by commercial travelers or selling
agents.
      (3)   Receivers appointed by a court in this state making sales for the
benefit of creditors.
      (4)   Sales by public officers as authorized by law.
      (5)   Sales or activities conducted exclusively by or in support of a
nonprofit charitable, educational, religious, scientific or civic organization,
without benefit of private profit or gain by the person conducting the sale or
activity.
      (6)   Seasonal retail establishments such as fruit and vegetable stands,
which normally conduct business for a continuous period of at least 90 days
during the year from a fixed location.
      (7)   Selling, limited to goods, wares, fruits and merchandise, conducted
by honorably discharged veterans of foreign wars exempt from municipal
licensing requirements under IC 10-5-12-1 or IC 10-5-13-1, subject to the
provisions of §
113.18.
      (8)   Sale of newspapers, dairy products or similar commodities provided
and delivered through a regularly established and direct route delivery system.
      (9)   Temporary sales by a person of his or her own used or surplus
personal property which was not originally acquired for the purposes of resale.
      (10)   Visiting a residence or business establishment by prior invitation
or appointment arranged in any manner not requiring a license under §
113.15, for the purpose of selling or promoting a commodity.
   (B)   Any person purportedly conducting business activities without a
license under an exemption provided by this section shall have the burden of
proof that his or her activities are bona fide and eligible for exemption
hereunder. The fact that any person is exempt from the town transient vendor/
solicitor license requirement under this section does not imply that person is
necessarily exempt from any county, state or federal license requirements which
may also and incidentally apply to that person's activities.
('85 Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
Editor’s note:
   IC 10-5-12-1 and IC 10-5-13-1 were repealed by P.L. 2-2003, Sec. 102.
§ 113.17 ISSUANCE; TERMS; FEE; NON-ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   When an application is filed and all information and identification
found to be satisfactory in accordance with §
113.15, the Clerk-Treasurer may issue a license certificate to the applicant
upon payment of the following applicable fee according to the term of the
license as set forth in the Town Fee Schedule, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   The license certificate shall state the name of the licensee, the
effective date of the license, its termination date and other information as
the Clerk-Treasurer deems advisable to include. A license granted under this
section does not imply and it shall be a violation of any licensee to represent
that the town in any way warrants the quality of any commodity being offered or
the honesty and integrity of the licensee or any person whom he or she
represents. Once a license is granted, no part of the above fee shall be
refundable by any reason.
('85 Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 2024-13, passed
11-7-24)
§ 113.18 CARRYING AND SHOWING.
   Any person required to have a license under the provisions of §
113.15 shall carry the license certificate issued under §
113.17 upon his or her person at all times when conducting the licensed
activity within the town, and shall show the same upon request to any law
officer or prospective customer. A person exempt from the license requirement
pursuant to §
113.16(A)(7) or (A)(8) shall, for purposes of this section, respectively carry
upon his or her person his or her military discharge papers (or like official
documentation) or his or her state real estate license for purposes of
identification and to demonstrate exemption from the town license requirements.
('85 Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
§ 113.19 NON-TRANSFER; NON-DISTRIBUTIVE.
   A transient vendor/solicitor's license issued under §
113.17 is valid only for the specific person to whom it is issued and may not
be transferred to another person in any circumstances. Employers, business
partners, employees, agents, family members and the like of a licensee are not
covered under his or her license, but must obtain individual licenses if also
engaged in the licensed activity.
('85 Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
§ 113.20 TRANSIENT VENDING/SOLICITING ACTIVITIES; CONDITION OF LICENSES;
APPLICABILITY TO NON-LICENSED TRANSIENT VENDORS AND SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Compliance with the regulations provided in this section, as
applicable to the activity conducted, is a condition of all licenses issued
pursuant to §
113.17. However, as applicable, all vendors and solicitors must comply with
these regulations even if they are exempt from licensing requirements pursuant
to §
113.16.
      (1)   Use of private property restricted. No transient vendor or
solicitor may use any private property for the purpose of conducting his or her
activities without the consent of the owner or other person in control of that
property.
      (2)   Use of certain public property restricted. A transient vendor or
solicitor may not conduct his or her activities upon the premises of public
facilities such as public parks, school grounds, governmental office buildings
or public meeting and recreation facilities without the consent of the public
authority having control of those facilities.
      (3)   Conduct of activities in safe and orderly manner. No transient
vendor or solicitor may conduct his or her activities in any manner which
obstructs traffic, impairs the use of public property and facilities by others,
substantially disturbs the tranquility of neighborhoods or otherwise creates a
public hazard, nuisance or inconvenience. The Town Marshal or the Marshal's
deputies may order the cessation, removal or modification of any transient
vending or soliciting activities found not to comply with this subsection, and
the transient vendor or solicitors shall comply with that order.
      (4)   Obedience to prohibitive signs. Any person owning or controlling
any residential, commercial or public premises and not wishing to be called
upon by transient vendors or solicitors may display a clearly visible sign
saying "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors" or other wording of similar plain intent
and all transient vendors and solicitors shall respect and obey that sign and
refrain from entering upon the premises for the purpose of conducting transient
vending or soliciting activities. However, this division does not apply to
persons described by §
113.16(A)(10).
      (5)   Time of residential door-to-door vending/soliciting restricted. A
transient vendor or solicitor, other than a person described by §
113.16(A)(10), may not call at any residential premises for the purpose of
vending or soliciting other than between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.
of any day. This division does not prohibit the delivery of previously ordered
commodities at other hours of the day.
      (6)   Departure from premises when requested. No transient vendor or
solicitor having entered upon any premises for the purpose of vending or
soliciting shall refuse to depart from or linger about those premises when
requested to leave by the owner, the person in charge of or the person having
admitted him or her to the premises.
      (7)   Permanent fixture of advertising matter to vehicles or other
property. No transient vendor or solicitor may apply and affix any advertising
or promotional matter such as adhesive stickers or decals to vehicles or to any
other private or public property without the consent of the owner or person in
control of that vehicle or property.
      (8)   General compliance with laws, ordinance and regulations. All
transient vendors and solicitors operating within the town shall be expected to
strictly comply with all laws, ordinances and regulations while engaging in
vending or soliciting activities, whether or not those laws, ordinances and
regulations directly apply to that activity per se. A license issued under §
113.17 does not constitute a waiver of nor exemption from any such laws,
ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   Any transient vendor or solicitor who is licensed under §
113.15 may have his or her license suspended or revoked pursuant to §
113.21 if he or she fails to comply with all of the above regulations. Any
transient vendor or solicitors who fails to comply with the provisions and
regulations set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(7) above, when
applicable, shall, whether licensed or not also be considered to have committed
a penal violation and be subject to citation and penalties as provided in §
113.99.
('85 Code, § 3-2-8) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
§ 113.21 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; SERVICE OF NOTICE; APPEAL; RESTRICTION ON
APPLICATION FOR NEW LICENSE.
   (A)   The Town Council President may suspend or revoke the license of any
licensee if it is found that:
      (1)   The licensee provided false identification or false or incomplete
information on the license application;
      (2)   The licensee refuses or has failed to comply with applicable
regulations and conditions of the license as provided under §
113.20; or
      (3)   Other information or complaints have come forth whereby, in the
opinion of the Town Council President, it would not be consistent with the
public health, safety or welfare to continue permitting the licensee to conduct
the licensed activity.
   (B)   Upon that action, the Town Council President shall give written notice
to the licensee stating the reasons and the licensee's right to appeal as
hereinafter provided. Service of the notice may be made by certified mail to
the address of the licensee as shown on the license application, or may be
served personally on the licensee by the Town Council President, the Clerk-
Treasurer or a police officer wherever the licensee may be found in the town.
The suspension or revocation shall be effective upon service of the notice.
However, within seven days of service of the notice, the licensee may file a
written appeal of the suspension or revocation with the Clerk-Treasurer
requesting a hearing on the matter before the full Town Council, which hearing
shall be scheduled and conducted no later than the next regular meeting of the
Town Council. The Council may, pursuant to that hearing, reverse or modify the
conditions of the suspension or revocation. When a person's license has been
suspended, he or she shall not be eligible to apply for nor to be granted any
new license during the term of the suspension. When a person's license has been
revoked, he or she shall be ineligible to apply for or to be granted a new
license for a period of one year following the effective date of the revocation
and then may be granted the license only upon review and approval of the Town
Council.
('85 Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates as a transient vendor or solicitor without a
license, as required under §
113.15, or when that license is suspended or revoked or violates applicable
requirements and regulations under §
113.20, or otherwise violates any provisions of this act shall be liable to a
penal fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 and each day a violation
occurs shall be citable and punishable as a separate offense.
('85 Code, § 3-2-10) (O7rd. 1985-C14, passed 9-16-85)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST TOWN REGULATIONS
Section
Firearms and Projectiles
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Exception
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms, air guns and archery weapons
   
130.04   Regulation of dangerous projectiles, generally
   
130.05   Permitted use of air guns and archery weapons
   
130.06   Permitted use of firearms on authorized firearms ranges
Curfew
   
130.20   Special curfew hours for persons 15, 16 and 17 years old
   
130.21   Special curfew for persons less than 15 years old
   
130.22   Exemptions
   
130.23   Disposition of minors found in violation
Loitering; Unlawful Congregation
   
130.35   Loitering in public or private places prohibited
   
130.36   Unlawful congregation defined; orders to disperse
Housing
   
130.40   Residents per single family residence
   
130.41   Offenses
   
130.42   Requirements for sleeping areas
Trespassing
   
130.50   No trespassing on certain property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
FIREARMS AND PROJECTILES
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN. A rifle, pistol or other device for propelling a bullet, pellet,
dart or BB shot by means of compressed air or other compressed gas or by means
of a spring or similar device under mechanical tension which creates a charge
of compressed air when released.
   ARCHERY WEAPON. Any longbow, crossbow or like device designed to propel an
arrow, dart or spear by the release of string tension, but not including a toy
in which the projectile is so blunted or padded as to be incapable of causing
injury under normal circumstances.
   DANGEROUS PROJECTILE. Any projectile discharged from a firearm, air gun or
archery weapon but also means any other object which is purposely hurled or
thrown by any means and which, by virtue of its sharpness, heaviness, velocity
or explosive or incendiary character can reasonably be foreseen as potentially
causing harm or injury to persons or property, whether or not any harm or
injury is actually caused or intended.
   FIREARM. Any rifle, pistol, shotgun, flare gun or other device for
propelling a solid projectile by means of an explosive charge.
('85 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85)
§ 130.02 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this act do not apply to nor restrict the use of firearms,
air guns, archery weapons or dangerous projectiles by the following persons:
   (A)   A police officer or other person lawfully authorized to exercise a
police power and acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her police functions.
   (B)   A member of the armed forces of the United States or of an allied
military force acting within the context of and to the extent necessary to
perform his or her military duties.
   (C)   A person acting in the defense of his or her life or property or that
of another person, to the extent deemed reasonable and justifiable by law.
('85 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85)
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, air gun or archery
weapon within the corporate limits of the town, except in the manner and for
the purposes hereafter permitted.
('85 Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
130.99(A)
§ 130.04 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS PROJECTILES, GENERALLY.
   In addition to the restrictions imposed by §
130.02, it also is unlawful to discharge, hurl or throw any dangerous
projectile:
   (A)   If the projectile traverses a street, road, alley or other public
thoroughfare; or
   (B)   In any public place or establishment and in such a way that the
persons assembled or passing there or any valuable property would be imperiled
by that action.
('85 Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
130.99(A)
§ 130.05 PERMITTED USE OF AIR GUNS AND ARCHERY WEAPONS.
   An air gun or archery weapon may be discharged under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Upon private property, other than an establishment open to the public,
either within an enclosed structure or within an outdoor area enclosed by a
solid wall or fence at least eight feet high.
   (B)   Within a regularly established commercial shooting gallery, or a
temporary or transient shooting gallery.
   (C)   Within an authorized firearms range, as provided by §
130.06.
('85 Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
130.99(A)
§ 130.06 PERMITTED USE OF FIREARMS ON AUTHORIZED FIREARMS RANGES.
   A person may, within the approval and written consent of the Town Marshal,
establish, maintain and operate a private or public firearms range. Firearms of
a type authorized by the Marshal, and subject to any further restrictions and
regulations which the Marshal may impose, may be used on the authorized range
for purpose of target practice, firearms training or sport competition. In
considering an application, the Marshal shall take account of physical location
and layout, safeguards to protect neighboring properties or other persons on
the same premises and the potential for noise and disturbance annoying to
adjoining properties. The permit shall be revocable at the discretion of the
Marshal.
('85 Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85) Penalty, see §
130.99(A)
CURFEW
§ 130.20 SPECIAL CURFEW HOURS FOR PERSONS 15, 16 AND 17 YEARS OLD.
   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in a
public place:
   (A)   Between midnight and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
('85 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 9-1-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 130.21 SPECIAL CURFEW FOR PERSONS LESS THAN 15 YEARS OLD.
   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a public
place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
('85 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 9-1-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 130.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sections
130.20 or
130.21 shall not apply to a child who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
   (C)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity; or
      (3)   A religious event.
('85 Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 9-1-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed 9-
16-85)
§ 130.23 DISPOSITION OF MINORS FOUND IN VIOLATION.
   Any minor child found to be out in any public place or public establishment
in violation of the curfew hours shall be taken into custody by any police
officer of the town and shall be treated as a delinquent child in accordance
with IC 31-30.
('85 Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 9-1-81; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed 9-
16-85)
LOITERING; UNLAWFUL CONGREGATION
§ 130.35 LOITERING IN PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having no business or reason to be in
the place to be found lingering or loitering unnecessarily in any public or
private place in this town without the consent of the individual in control
thereof.
('85 Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 1974-C-1, passed 9-10-74; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed
9-16-85) Penalty, see §
130.99(B)
§ 130.36 UNLAWFUL CONGREGATION DEFINED; ORDERS TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to be in or congregate
on public property or in any other public place if the purpose or the effect of
that congregation is to:
      (1)   Unreasonably obstruct or impair the proper use of the public
property or public place by others for the purposes for which the public
property or place is intended;
      (2)   Intentionally harass or unreasonably annoy (whether intentional or
not) other persons availing themselves of the use of the public property or
place or using adjacent property; or
      (3)   Obstruct or render any public thoroughfare unsafe for normal use of
and passage by vehicles or pedestrians.
   (B)   This section does not prevent the Town Council or the owner or
operator of any public place from granting a permit for temporary special use
of public property or public places for purposes other than those for which
they are usually intended, as for parades, sporting events or other community
or special events.
('85 Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 1985-C24, passed 9-16-85; Am. Ord. 4-92-7, passed 4-
28-92) Penalty, see §
130.99(C)
HOUSING
§ 130.40 RESIDENTS PER SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchaper the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT. A person 18 years or older.
      RESPONSIBLE TENANT. A tenant of a single family residence whose signature
appears on the written lease. If there is no written lease, any tenant who
delivered the rent payment to the landlord during any of the preceding six
months, or if no rent or lease payment is made, all adult residents of the
single family residence.
      SINGLE FAMILY.  
         (1)   Two married adults, the natural or adopted children of either of
them, the grandchildren of one or both of the adults, the parents or siblings
of either of the married adults, or spouses of any of the children of either
spouse.
         (2)   One adult and his or her natural or adopted children, present or
former stepchildren, grandchildren, siblings and parents or grandparents.
         (3)   Two or three unmarried adults, and the natural or adopted
children, present or former stepchildren, grandchildren, siblings and parents
or grandparents of one or more of the adults.
         (4)   No more than three unrelated adults.
      SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE. A residence that is not located in a multi
family zoning district, unless the residence is located in a single family
district, and has been occupied by more than a single family since zoning was
adopted in 1978.
      TENANT. A person residing in a single family residence, a multi family
residence, or any other structure, whether rent or lease payments are paid to
the owner or manager or if the person resides for free, or as an employee
benefit, in residence owned by another person.
   (B)   An owner of a property located in a single family zoning district may
not permit a person not a member of a single family to reside in a residence,
leased, rented or given to the resident.
   (C)   If a covenant of the subdivision in which a residence is located
expressly or impliedly requires written leases or rental agreements, the owner
of the residence shall have a written lease or rental agreement, which shall
include the names of all persons authorized to reside in the residence during
the term of the lease and in what manner, if any, the tenants are related by
blood or marriage.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, passed 9-26-01; Am. Ord. 2001-10-1, passed 10-9-01)
§ 130.41 OFFENSES.
   (A)   No adult may sleep more than one night in a 21 day period in a single
family residence that is not a member of the single family that is the owner or
a tenant of the single family residence.
   (B)   A developer of a subdivision that expressly or impliedly requires, by
covenant, written leases shall enforce the requirement of a covenant to have a
written lease, as long as the covenants give the developer the power to enforce
covenants, within ten days of written notice by an authorized representative or
employee of the town.
   (C)   A responsible tenant may not permit an adult to live in the single
family residence in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   An owner of a single family residence who leases, rents, authorizes or
permits more than a single family to reside in a single family residence
violates this subchapter by each person living in the single family residence
for each day that each person resides in the single family residence.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, passed 9-26-01; Am. Ord. 2001-10-1, passed 10-9-01) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.42 REQUIREMENTS FOR SLEEPING AREAS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a BEDROOM is defined as
that area within a single family residence, a multi-family residence, or other
facility where individual human beings sleep.
   (B)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every bedroom occupied by one person shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every bedroom occupied by
more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for
each occupant thereof.
   (C)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of
access to other bedrooms. Exception: Units that contain fewer than two
bedrooms.
   (D)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in dwelling unit shall have access to at least one water
closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an adjacent
story.
   (E)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens shall not be used for sleeping
purposes.
   (F)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the minimum area requirements of the table.
Minimum Area in Square Feet 
 
Space       1-2 occupants   305 occupants 5 or more occupants
Living room No requirements 120           150
Dining room No requirements 80            100
Kitchen     50              50            60
Bedrooms    Shall comply with division (B)
 
   (G)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by the table in
division (F) shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the
minimum occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply
with division (B).
   (H)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of the table in division (F) if the total area is
equal to that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to
function as a combination living room/ dining room.
   (I)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   A unit occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a clear
floor area of not less than 220 square feet (20.4mz). A unit occupied by three
occupants shall have a clear floor area of not less than 320 square feet
(29.7mz). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by
divisions (I)(2) and (I)(3) below;
      (2)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less
than 30 inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code
shall be provided;
      (3)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower;
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   (J)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
   (K)   Offenses.
      (1)   A person may not sleep in a bedroom, efficiency unit, or kitchen in
violation of this section.
      (2)   An owner of a property containing a bedroom, as defined by division
(A), may not lease, rent, or permit more persons to reside in their property in
excess of the numbers permitted by the Code of Sheridan.
(Ord. 2002-4-1, passed 4-30-02)
TRESPASSING
§ 130.50 NO TRESPASSING ON CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   (A)   There shall be no trespassing on certain property as designated in
Exhibit A attached to Res. 2015-13 (the “property”).
   (B)   Signs shall be placed upon the property indicating the same.
   (C)   The town shall pursue all measures to prosecute any individual caught
trespassing upon the property.
(Res. 2015-13, passed 11-12-15)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who:
      (1)   Uses a firearm, air gun, archery weapon or dangerous projectile
except in a manner as authorized herein;
      (2)   Establishes, maintains and operates any firearms range without a
permit, as provided by §
130.06, or in violation of restrictions and regulations imposed as conditions
of the permit; or
      (3)   Disobeys a cease and desist order given in accordance with § 130.07
commits a penal violation and shall be liable to a fine of not less than $50
nor more than $100 for each offense or for each day that a violation continues.
('85 Code, § 7-1-8) (Ord. 1985-C23, passed 9-16-85)
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
130.35, that person shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $50. ('85
Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 1974-C-1, passed 9-10-74; Am. Ord. 1985-C15, passed 9-16-
85)
   (C)   When any persons are found, in the opinion of a police officer, to be
violating the provisions of §
130.36, that officer shall order those persons to disperse and any persons who
fail to disperse may be cited and shall be liable to a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $500. ('85 Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 1985-C24, passed 9-16-85;
Am. Ord. 4-92-7, passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. 92-12-2, passed 12-22-92)
   (D)   (1)   A person who violates §
130.41(A) commits an ordinance violation and upon a finding of violation shall
be fined no less than $10 and no more than $2,500. However, if the person has
been previously found to have violated §
130.41(A), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than $2,500.
      (2)   A person who violates §
130.41(B) commits an ordinance violation and upon a finding of violation shall
be fined no less than $10 and no more than $2,500. However, if the person has
been previously found to have violated §
130.41(B), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than $2,500.
      (3)   A person who violates §
130.41(C) commits an ordinance violation and upon a finding of violation shall
be fined no less than $10 and no more than $2,500. However, if the person has
been previously found to have violated §
130.41(C), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than $2,500.
      (4)   A person who violates §
130.41(D) commits an ordinance violation and upon a finding of violation shall
be fined no less than $10 and no more than $2,500. However, if the person has
been previously found to have violated §
130.41(D), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than $2,500.
      (5)   Each day a person violates any of the provisions of §
130.41 shall constitute a separate offense. More than one person may violate §
130.41 by the same person living in a single family residence in violation of
§§
130.40 and 130.41. (Ord. 2001-10-1, passed 10-9-01)
   (E)   A person who violates §
130.42(K)(1) commits an ordinance violation, and upon a finding of violation
shall be fined no less than $10, and no more than $2,500. However, if the
person has been previously found to have violated §
130.42(K)(1), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than
$2,500.
   (F)   A person who violates §
130.42(K)(2) commits an ordinance violation, and upon a finding of violation
shall be fined no less than $10, and no more than $2,500. However, if the
person has been previously found to have violated §
130.42(K)(2), the person shall be fined no less than $50 and no more than
$2,500.
   (G)   Each day a person violates any provision of §
130.42 shall constitute a separate offense. More than one person may violate §
130.42(K) by committing separate offenses.
(Am. Ord. 2002-4-1, passed 4-30-02)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   RESERVED
      
151.   RESERVED
      
152.   PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   RESERVED
      
154.   DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: RESERVED
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
Integrated Comprehensive Plan
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.15   Plan Commission established
   
152.16   Economic Development Commission and Department of Development
established; powers and duties
   
152.17   Economic Development Commission; appointment, qualifications; terms
   
152.18   Department of Building Safety established; purposes and jurisdictions
   
152.19   Office of Building Commissioner established; appointment; powers and
duties
   
152.20   Building Code Appeals Board established; powers and jurisdiction
   
152.21   Division of Planning and Development established
   
152.22   Director of Planning and Development; appointment and duties
   
152.23   Representation of H.U.D.
   
152.24   Infrastructure required inspections and fees schedule
   
152.25   Board of Zoning Appeals; electronic meetings policy
Zoning Code; Improvement Location Permits
   
152.35   Reserved
   
152.36   Re-adoption and incorporation by reference of town improvement
location permit ordinance
   
152.37   Availability for public inspection
Thoroughfare Planning and Development
   
152.60   Definitions
   
152.61   Denomination of public ways; authority and procedures
   
152.62   Assignment of street address numbers to separate buildings or separate
exterior units
   
152.63   Enforcement
   
152.64   Re-adoption and incorporation by reference of town thoroughfare plan
Department of Redevelopment
   
152.75   Department and Commission established
   
152.76   Taxing district
Unified Development Ordinance
   
152.80   Unified Development Ordinance incorporated by reference
INTEGRATED COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Integrated Comprehensive Plan of the town, dated July 24, 1998, copies
of which are on file in the office of the town's Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
('85 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 98-8-1, passed 8-11-98)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.15 PLAN COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The town Plan Commission is hereby established, with membership,
appointments, terms and qualifications as set forth in the Advisory Planning
Law of Indiana (IC 36-7-4-101 et seq). The duties and responsibilities of the
Commission shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth in that
statute.
('85 Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 1975-3, passed 5-3-75)
§ 152.16 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION AND DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT
ESTABLISHED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Council finds it is now or potentially may become necessary
to finance economic development or pollution control facilities under IC 36-7-
12-1 et seq. Therefore, there is established a Department of Economic
Development of the town. The Department is under control of the Sheridan
Economic Development Commission established by division (B) below.
   (B)   There hereby is established the Sheridan Economic Development
Commission to control the operation of the Department of Economic Development
in effecting the purposes of IC 36-7-12-1 et seq.
      (1)   The Commission shall investigate, study and survey the need for
additional job opportunities, industrial diversification and pollution control
facilities in the town and shall recommend action to improve or promote job
opportunities, industrial diversification and availability of pollution control
facilities in the town.
      (2)   The Commission may adopt the rules, regulations and bylaws that it
considers necessary.
('85 Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 1982-2, passed 7-14-82)
§ 152.17 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION; APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The membership of the Economic Development Commission shall consist of
three members appointed by the Town Council President. One member shall be
selected by the President, one shall be nominated by the County Council and one
shall be nominated by the Town Council as a body. After July 14, 1982, the town
Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly notify the executives and fiscal bodies required
to make selections and nominations hereunder. The officers required to make
selections and nominations shall do so within 15 days after receiving that
notice. Each selectee and nominee shall be appointed by the President within
ten days after he or she receives the nominations. Before beginning his or her
duties, each Economic Development Commissioner shall take and subscribe an oath
of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his or her certificate of
appointment. The certificate shall be promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
The Economic Development Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment
and their terms run from February 1, after the original appointment, for a
period of:
      (1)   Three years, if selected by the Town Council President.
      (2)   Two years, if nominated by the Town Council as a body; and
      (3)   One year, if nominated by the County Council.
   (B)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the original
Economic Development Commissioners, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated, before the expiration of the term, in the same manner
as the original Commissioner, and each succeeding Commissioner shall serve for
a term of four years. A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of
his or her term until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
('85 Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 1982-2, passed 7-14-82)
§ 152.18 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY ESTABLISHED; PURPOSES AND JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the town government and administrative
department to be known as the Department of Building Safety. Its purposes,
powers and jurisdiction are:
      (1)   To administer, apply and enforce minimum construction standards and
building safety requirements governing the design, materials and construction
used in constructing, remodeling and repairing buildings and included
electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning and mechanical
systems as provided under the town's building code,
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   To administer, apply and enforce minimum housing standards as may
now or hereafter be made applicable to dwellings;
      (3)   To administer, apply and enforce any other regulations and
requirements governing the safety, physical condition or maintenance of
buildings as provided by statute or ordinance, except when those
responsibilities are expressly conferred on another department or office;
      (4)   To pursue and enforce abatement of buildings and premises found to
be unsafe and dwelling units found to be unfit for human habitation; and,
      (5)   To review plans and specifications of proposed construction or
regulated work, to issue and control building permits when required and to
provide for and make inspections of buildings and work when required or when
necessary to carry out the purposes of the Department as defined under
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above, or under other town ordinances, statutes
or state and federal administrative regulations.
   (B)   The Department does not have responsibility and jurisdiction to
administer and enforce regulations governing the height, area, bulk, location,
lot area or setback of buildings; nor governing exterior design of buildings
and related premises (except as to the structural or fire safety
characteristics of exterior wall and roofing materials, specifications as to
the number and characteristics of exterior exits, design and method of
construction of exterior structural fixtures, such as balconies, overhangs,
parapets and the like and structural design affecting accessibility of the
building to handicapped persons as required by statutes and regulations); nor
governing the use of buildings (except only insofar as any such particular use
would, but its incidental nature, constitute a violation of any regulations
otherwise under the jurisdiction of the Department). All other such matters
described in the preceding sentence, subject to the exceptions noticed, shall
be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Department of Land Use and Zoning.
('85 Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 1985-C2, passed 9-16-85)
§ 152.19 OFFICE OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Building Commissioner for
the town.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, except as hereinafter provided, shall be
appointed by the Town Council President and serve at the President's pleasure,
subject to approval of that appointed by the Council.
      (1)   The position may be full- or part-time, as the President determines
in light of the duties and workload of the office or the President may appoint
the town Director of Planning and Development to serve as the Building
Commissioner ex officio.
      (3)   The President, in making the appointment, may also require the
appointee have, or attain within a specified amount of time, certification or
other minimum qualifications for local building officials and inspectors as
may, from time to time, be recommended by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of the state.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Serve as chief administrative officer of the Department of Building
Safety.
      (2)   Serve as head Building Inspector for the town.
      (3)   Appoint qualified assistant inspectors as may be necessary to carry
out the duties of the department as may be authorized by the Town Council.
      (4)   Have all power and duties conferred on the enforcement authority
under the provisions of IC 36-7-9, as adopted and made applicable.
      (5)   Have all powers and duties as necessary to enforce other statutes,
ordinances or regulations as specifically conferred therein on a municipal
building inspector, or which relate to the safety of buildings or physical
condition of buildings and premises except to the extent that the powers and
duties are expressly conferred on another officer by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   Have all powers as conferred on a county Board of Health respecting
the alleviation and abatement of dwelling units unfit for human habitation
located within the town.
      (7)   Have the power, either personally or by authorized representative,
to enter into or upon any building or premises at any reasonable hour for the
purpose of making any inspections necessary or desirable in order to determine
if the building or premises are unsafe or otherwise in noncompliance with any
statutes, ordinances or regulations relating to the condition of real property.
      (8)   Have the power to issue, serve, promulgate and enforce orders in
accordance with rules and procedures specified by statute, ordinance or
regulation, or as established by the Town Council, to require compliance of
buildings or premises with applicable statutes, ordinances and regulations
relating to the safety, condition and maintenance of buildings and their
premises or to alleviate or prevent any unsafe conditions found to occur or to
be likely to occur therein, including, but not necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Stop work orders;
         (b)   Orders to modify, correct, repair or remove any non-complying or
unsafe structure, installation or building.
         (c)   Orders to seal an unsafe building against intrusion by
unauthorized persons in accordance with uniform standards as provided by
statute or ordinance.
         (d)   Orders to modify or abandon any use or condition of occupancy
which, by its nature, taken in conjunction with the character, type or location
of the building or premises, renders the building or premises unsafe;
         (e)   Orders to vacate an unsafe building; and
         (f)   Orders to exterminate vermin in or about unsafe buildings and
premises.
      (9)   Have the power to issue and serve civil citations and summonses to
persons believed to be violating any penal town ordinance or committing an
infraction under any statute, relating to safety, condition and maintenance of
buildings; and,
      (10)   Have other powers and perform other duties as may by ascribed to
the Building Commissioner by town ordinance or directives of the Council.
   (D)   As an alternative, the Town Council may enter into an interlocal
agreement under IC 36-1-7 or under IC 36-7-8 or an agency service agreement
under IC 5-17-4, with a county or another municipality, to appoint a single
person as joint Building Commissioner (or equivalent authority) for each of the
parties or to have an officer or agency of the county or other municipality
perform the functions of the town Building Commissioner and Department of
Building Safety (except the functions of the Building Code Appeals Board) and
in that case the previous provisions of this section shall be governed or
limited by that agreement.
('85 Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 1985-C2, passed 9-16-85)
Editor's note:
   I.C. 5-17-4 will be repealed effective July 1, 1998.
§ 152.20 BUILDING CODE APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED; POWERS AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Building Code Appeals Board to consist
of four members, as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be the Chief of the town's Fire Department, ex
officio.
      (2)   One member shall be a member of the Town Council designated by its
President, who shall serve for so long as he or she remains a member of the
Council or until the President designates another Council member to serve in
that place.
      (3)   Two citizen members shall be appointed by the President. As far as
practicable, the citizen members shall be selected on the basis of their
knowledge and experience in the fields of building construction, architecture,
structural engineering or building safety. The members may be residents of the
town, except that if the town has a contract with the county, pursuant to IC
36-7-8, providing for the town Department of Building Safety to administer and
enforce building construction and safety standards within any of the
unincorporated area of the county, one such member may be a resident of the
unincorporated jurisdictional area. Citizen members shall be appointed for
initial terms to expire December 31, 1985, and thereafter shall be appointed or
reappointed for four-year terms.
   (B)   The Building Code Appeals Board has exclusive jurisdiction to hear
appeals and resolve all questions and disputes concerning administrative
decisions of the Department of Building Safety, the granting or denial of
building permits, the interpretation and application of building regulations
within the jurisdiction of the Department of Building Safety. Subject to any
further applicable limitations and procedures as required by law or ordinance,
the Building Code Appeals Board may also grant or approve absolute or
conditional variances from the regulations. The Building Code Appeals Board
does not have jurisdiction over matters and regulations under the jurisdiction
of the Department of Land Use and Zoning and/or matters under the jurisdiction
of the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to IC 36-7-4-918.1. Conversely, the
Board of Zoning Appeals has no jurisdiction over matters and regulations under
the jurisdiction of the Building Code Appeals Board as provided in this
section, in the town Building Code or pursuant to IC 22-13-2-11. Procedures
applicable to the bringing and handling of appeals to the Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to IC 36-7-4-900 series and Chapter 10, Article V of the
master plan of the town do not apply to appeals before the Building Code
Appeals Board. The Building Code Appeals Board, except to the extent otherwise
provided by ordinance or statute, shall establish its own rules for meetings,
filing of appeals and other related procedures provided these rules shall
provide reasonable access and due process to appellants, and all proceedings of
the Council shall be governed by IC 5-14-1.5.
('85 Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 1985-C2, passed 9-16-85)
§ 152.21 DIVISION OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a consolidated administrative division within
the town government, to be know as the Division of Planning and Development.
The Division consists of the following departments, offices and elements:
   (A)   The Department of Land Use and Zoning, which consists of:
      (1)   The Plan Commission;
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The Department of Economic Development, which consists of the Economic
Development Commission.
   (C)   The Department of Building Safety, which consists of:
      (1)   The Office of the Building Commissioner;
      (2)   The Building Code Appeals Board.
   (D)   The Office of the Director of Planning and Development, which consists
of:
      (1)   The Director of Planning and Development;
      (2)   The general administrative and support staff of the Division.
('85 Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 1985-C2, passed 9-16-85)
§ 152.22 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Division of Planning and Development shall be subject to the
ultimate governing authority of the Town Council but shall have a chief
administrative officer to be known as the Director of Planning and Development.
   (B)   The Director of Planning and Development shall be appointed by the
Town Council President and serve at the President's pleasure, subject to
approval of the appointment by the Council.
   (C)   The Director of Planning and Development shall:
      (1)   Have charge of and provide all general administrative support
functions necessary or desirable to assist and coordinate the effective
carrying out of their duties and functions by the several constituent elements
and offices within the Division.
      (2)   Employ, as authorized by the Town Council, supervise and assign
duties to all general personnel and clerical staff of the Division, exclusive
of personnel specifically to be appointed by other officers or entities as
provided by law or ordinance.
      (3)   Serve ex officio as administrative head of the Department of Land
Use and Zoning and the Department of Economic Development and also of the
Department of Building Safety if so required in accordance with §
152.19.
      (4)   Have the powers and perform duties as ascribed to the Director of
Planning Development by town ordinance, including, but not limited to those
ascribed under Chapters 10 through 14 of the town's master plan and
particularly under §§ 10.47, 10.48 and 10.49 thereof respecting review of
development plans and issuance of improvement location permits.
      (5)   Perform other functions as he or she may, from time to time, be
directed to perform by the Town Council.
      (6)   Have other powers and duties as are necessarily implied or
dispensable to the carrying out of the functions and purposes of the Division
to the extent not in conflict or interference with nor preemptive of those
powers and duties vested by law or ordinance in other officers, departments and
elements within the Division.
('85 Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 1985-C2, passed 9-16-85)
§ 152.23 REPRESENTATION OF H.U.D.
   The Noblesville Housing Authority be granted jurisdiction within the
boundaries of the Town of Sheridan, to operate as a representative of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, to operate and administer H.U.D.
programs, subject to local ordinances, rules, and zoning requirements.
(Res. 1993-6-2, passed 6-22-93)
§ 152.24 INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIRED INSPECTIONS AND FEES SCHEDULE.
The fees for required infrastructure inspections are as set forth in the Town
Fee Schedule, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 4-8-19; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-9-19; Am. Ord. 2024-
13, passed 11-7-24)
§ 152.25 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the act, including definitions, apply to this
section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the "electronic meetings policy" of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and applies to the BZA and any committee appointed
directly by the BZA or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E), any member may participate in
a meeting by any electronic means of communication that: allows all
participating members of the governing body to simultaneously communicate with
each other, and other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum, and may
participate in final action only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the BZA may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the BZA may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Township Board's power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The Governor under IC 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Town Council President under IC 10-14-3-29; members are not
required to be physically present for a meeting until the emergency is
terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (G)   This section shall be effective from and after adoption by this BZA
and compliance with IC 36-4-6-14.
(Res. 2023-17, passed 8-3-23)
ZONING CODE; IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS
§ 152.35 RESERVED.
§ 152.36 RE-ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF TOWN IMPROVEMENT
LOCATION PERMIT ORDINANCE.
   The ordinance known as “An Ordinance Providing for the Issuance of
Improvement Location Permits within the Jurisdiction of the Sheridan Plan
Commission,” as heretofore adopted February 14, 1978 and effective March 28,
1978, being also heretofore published and promulgated as “Chapter 13:
Improvement Location Permit Ordinance of the Master Plan, Sheridan, Indiana,”
is hereby re-enacted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
('85 Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 152.37 AVAILABILITY FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The revised, comprehensive zoning code and improvement location permit
ordinance, copies of which are on file in the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
('85 Code, § 9-3-3)
THOROUGHFARE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC WAY. The term means:
   (A)   Any public arterial, collector or local street located within the
corporate limits of the town and under town jurisdiction, but excluding a
public alley or municipally owned service drives or parking lots;
   (B)   A state highway or state-maintained primary or secondary route to the
extent located within the corporate limits of the town; and
   (C)   Any privately owned, maintained and operated thoroughfares which are
primarily dedicated to and used for public vehicular traffic by residents and
occupants of or other members of the public seeking vehicular access to,
residential subdivisions, condominium and apartment complexes, office
complexes, industrial parks and similar developments but excluding private
driveways, service roads or parking lots.
   SEPARATE BUILDING. Each principal building located on any lot or parcel of
land and facing on a public way, exclusive of accessory buildings (all as
defined in the town zoning ordinance). A building shall be regarded as a
SEPARATE BUILDING if it is a principal building, is structurally and
architecturally identifiable as distinct and was built at a different time from
any other principal building, notwithstanding the fact that any such building
may have one or more common or immediately conjoining walls with any other
principal building.
   SEPARATE EXTERIOR UNIT. Any separate building, but also includes any
physical subdivision of the building such as an apartment, condominium,
business office, shop or store which:
      (1)   Is separately used and occupied with respect to other portions of
the building; and,
      (2)   Has a separate principal ground-level exterior entrance facing on a
public way.
('85 Code, § 9-8-1) (Ord. 1985-C34, passed 9-24-85)
§ 152.61 DENOMINATION OF PUBLIC WAYS; AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All public ways within the town shall be given an official and
generally recognized name or other local designation for purposes of
identification. All these names or other generally recognized designations of
public ways in existence on or before September 24, 1985 are hereby ratified,
recognized and made official. However, except as hereafter provided, the
denomination of all public ways shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of
the Town Council and no person may give or name to any new public way, nor
change the name of any existing public way, nor indicate any such name of a
public way by signs, advertising or other means without the approval and
recognition of the Town Council. Any person who wishes to establish and open a
new public way or to rename an existing public way shall present a proposal for
the name thereof to the Town Council. Approval of the proposal shall be subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   No proposed name will be approved if it is identical with that of
an existing public way (except in the case of a new public way which is a
directly projected extension of the existing public way) nor which is deemed to
be confusingly similar to that of an existing public way;
      (2)   No already-dominated public way shall be renamed except upon
clearly shown and pressing reasons;
      (3)   No public way shall be so named as to give favorable publicity,
advertising advantage or other pecuniary advantage to any commercial concern;
and,
      (4)   In the case of any public way, as defined in §
152.60, the petitioner shall additionally agree to erect and maintain street
name signs of a type and in a location agreeable to the Town Council, whether
or not the name finally conferred upon the public way is as proposed by the
petitioner or otherwise.
   (B)   Nothing in this section is intended to restrict the Indiana Department
of Highways from assigning numbers or other denominations to state highways or
state-maintained routes other than those ascribed by the Town Council pursuant
to this section, nor from erecting and maintaining any informational signs
using the state designations nor to prevent any person from referring to the
official state route designations in advertising, addresses, cartography, or
similar purposes. The Clerk-Treasurer shall inform the affected U.S. Postmaster
of any official street names or renamings adopted under this section.
('85 Code, § 9-8-2) (Ord. 1985-C34, passed 9-24-85)
§ 152.62 ASSIGNMENT OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS TO SEPARATE BUILDINGS OR SEPARATE
EXTERIOR UNITS.
   (A)   The town Plan Commission shall develop a plan and system whereby every
separate building within the town is assigned an individual street address
number. As it deems necessary, the Plan Commission may also require and provide
for the assignment of any individual street address number to each separate
exterior unit. In adopting any such numbering plan, the Commission shall:
      (1)   Consult with the Postmaster of any federal post office providing
mail service to the affected area of the town and that plan shall conform with
any applicable regulations of the U.S. Postal Service; and
      (2)   To the maximum extent possible, incorporate and continue to use any
existing and established street address numbers; and,
      (3)   Present the plan for approval and ratification by the Town Council
before its implementation.
   (B)   Any person who establishes or constructs any separate building (or a
separate exterior unit, when applicable) which has not already been assigned a
street address number in accordance with this section shall apply to the
Director of Planning and Development, who shall assign the number according to
the numbering plan adopted by the Commission. The owner or occupant of any
separate building (or separate exterior unit, when applicable) to which an
official street address number has been assigned shall display that number at
or upon the door, front or street entrance to the separate building or exterior
unit in a place readily visible from the public way.
('85 Code, § 9-8-3) (Ord. 1985-C34, passed 9-24-85)
§ 152.63 ENFORCEMENT.
   The appropriate authorities of the town may, at the direction of the Town
Council, enforce, pursue and seek equitable remedies for any violations of or
noncompliance with the provisions of §§
152.61 or
152.62 through an injunction or mandamus sought in the Hamilton County Court or
other court of jurisdiction as provided by law for those actions by
governmental entities, including award of all costs for that action.
('85 Code, § 9-8-4) (Ord. 1985-C34, passed 9-24-85)
§ 152.64 RE-ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF TOWN THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   The ordinance known as the “Thoroughfare Plan Ordinance,” as heretofore
adopted February 14, 1978, and effective March 28, 1978, being also heretofore
published and promulgated as “Chapter 14: Thoroughfare Plan Code of the Master
Plan, Sheridan, Indiana,” with any amendments thereto, copies of which are on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby re-adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
('85 Code, § 9-8-5)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 152.75 DEPARTMENT AND COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Sheridan Department of Redevelopment (the Department), controlled
by a board of five members to be known as the Sheridan Redevelopment Commission
(the Commission) is hereby created and established.
   (B)   The Department and the Commission shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-14,
the Act, and the Department and Commission shall have the power and authority
to do and perform all things now or hereafter granted to it by the Act.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-6.1, three of the members of the Commission
shall be appointed by the Town Council President, and two members shall be
appointed by the Town Council.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-7, the members first appointed to the
Commission shall serve until January 1, 1999, unless the commissioner is
removed from office by the president or council that appointed the commissioner
as permitted by I.C. 36-7-14-9. Redevelopment commissioners shall serve one
year terms thereafter unless removed.
   (E)   Each person appointed to the Commission shall take and subscribe an
oath in the usual form, to be endorsed on the certificate of appointment, which
shall be promptly filed with the Sheridan Clerk-Treasurer, and shall execute a
bond payable to the state in the amount of $15,000.
   (F)   Each person appointed to the Commission shall be at least 18 years of
age, a registered voter, and a resident of the town.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 3-28-89; Am. Ord. 97-8-2, passed 8-12-97)
§ 152.76 TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14, all of the territory within the corporate boundaries
of the town will be a taxing district to be known as the “Redevelopment
District of the Town of Sheridan” for the purposes provided in IC 36-7-14. The
Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property within this
special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects carried out under IC 36-7-14 to the extent of the
special taxes levied under said statute.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 3-28-89)
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
§ 152.80 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance (“UDO”), and all amendments thereto, is
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein. The complete, updated UDO is on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and can be accessed on the town website using the following URL,
https://sheridan.in.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/UDO-Adopted.pdf.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 5-1-23)
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
154.01   Design standards
§ 154.01 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town that developers of new development and
redevelopment within the jurisdiction of the town submit for approval a
drainage plan that prevents increased stormwater runoff resulting from land
alteration. The drainage plan shall provide for the proper drainage of
stormwater runoff from the developed site and the drainage basin in which it is
contained. The drainage system shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with the plans and specifications as approved by the town. Drainage approval
for all projects must be received from the town prior to construction.
   (B)   Permits as required by Indiana Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM, including Rule 5), Indiana Department of Natural Resources (IDNR), Army
Corps of Engineers (COE), Indiana Department of Transportation (InDOT),
Hamilton County Surveyor's Office, the Hamilton County Drainage Board, and any
other local, state, and federal regulatory agencies are the responsibility of
the property owner and the developer.
   (C)   Stormwater discharged to county-regulated drains, either direct or
indirect, must be coordinated with and approved by the Hamilton County
Surveyor's Office and/or the Hamilton County Drainage Board.
   (D)   Private developers shall submit to the Sheridan Planning Administrator
a complete set of plans and specifications, for a proposed subdivision or
planned development. Plans and specifications shall be prepared and signed by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Indiana.
   (E)   The town or its engineer shall not commence drainage review until all
applicable items in division (B) above have been submitted to the relevant
agencies.
   (F)   Plans submitted to the town shall at a minimum show the following
information:
      (1)   Locations of all stormwater drainage facilities and appurtenances,
inverts, elevations, storm sewer profiles, pond cross section and all
applicable installation and construction details;
      (2)   Public right-of-way and utility easements for the facilities;
      (3)   Date, north arrow and bar scale;
      (4)   Existing and proposed site conditions, including contours,
elevations, utilities, building footprints, finish floor elevations, streets,
drives, parking areas, property lines, bench marks, floodway/floodplain
boundaries, and erosion control measures and details;
      (5)   Technical specifications for drainage facilities and appurtenances.
   (G)   A technical information drainage report shall be submitted and shall
include the following information. (Pertinent data must be highlighted if
computer printouts are submitted.)
      (1)   A narrative explanation of the existing drainage patterns both
onsite and offsite when offsite drainage passes through the developed property.
The narrative shall include a summary of all pertinent calculations listed in
division (L)(3) below or reference the page number where the information is
located in the submittal package.
      (2)   A narrative explanation of proposed drainage patterns after
development. The narrative shall include a summary of all pertinent
calculations listed in division (L)(3) below or reference the page number where
the information is located in the submittal package.
      (3)   Stormwater runoff calculations including:
         (a)   Drainage subarea calculations;
         (b)   Weighted runoff coefficient or curve number calculations;
         (c)   Time of concentration calculations showing overland (sheet)
flow, shallow concentrated flow, and flow time in a channel, gutter or pipe;
         (d)   Grate capacities;
         (e)   Storm pipe and open channel design calculations including:
            1.   Size of pipe and typical channel cross section;
            2.   Pipe and channel slopes;
            3.   Material and roughness coefficient;
            4.   Velocities in feet per second (fps);
            5.   Structure headloss calculations upon request;
            6.   Hydraulic grade line (HGL) calculations upon request;
            7.   Flow capacities in cubic feet per second (cfs).
         (f)   Detention design summary with outlet control structure
information (outlet structure discharge rating curve, stage/storage/discharge
information during storm event).
   (H)   Upon initial review, the reviewer will notify the design engineer in
writing of deficiencies, if any, in meeting the town design standards. Upon
satisfying noted deficiencies, an approval letter will be issued to the
developer by the town.
   (I)   In designing storm sewer systems, the following minimum standards
shall apply:
      (1)   The rational method is acceptable for calculating peak flows to
storm sewers (for watersheds less than 200 acres in size). Manning's equation
is acceptable for sizing storm pipes for gravity flow, nonsubmerged outfall
conditions. Figure 1 contains runoff coefficients for use in the rational
formula.
      (2)   Due to the town's close proximity, rainfall intensities specified
by the City of Indianapolis shall be employed for rational method drainage
analysis. The intensity-duration frequency (IDF) table in Figure 2 from the
City of Indianapolis Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Manual
shall be used for rainfall intensity values.
      (3)   Storm sewers shall have a minimum diameter of 12 inches and the
sewer system shall pass the ten-year storm event under gravity flow conditions
(no surcharging). A 25-year storm event shall stay within the system and not
cause aboveground flooding. More stringent storm event criteria may be required
at the discretion of the town. Design calculations for sizing of the storm pipe
may be submitted on the storm pipe flow calculation form provided in Figure 3,
a similar design summary, or highlighted computer output data.
      (4)   Headloss through structures shall be accounted for in the design.
Headloss computations may be required at the discretion of the town.
      (5)   Storm sewer systems with the potential of operating under submerged
outfall conditions shall include hydraulic grade calculations using a
reasonable tailwater elevation.
      (6)   For streets, inlets grates shall be sized to pass runoff from the
ten-year storm with no more than 1½ inches of ponding above the street inlet
grate or with a gutter spread of no more than one-half of the travel lane.
(Ditch inlet grates shall have no more than six inches of ponding above the
grate). Flow capacities of storm inlet grates shall be calculated using weir
and orifice flow equations with consideration given to square footage of grate
open areas and flow perimeter dimensions provided by casting manufacturers.
Castings shall be the heavy-duty type and grates shall be bicycle safe.
      (7)   Storm street inlets shall be placed at all low areas and spaced a
maximum of 300 feet apart or 300 feet from the high point in the street unless
the town requires more restrictive spacing. Gutter spread calculations shall be
submitted upon request.
      (8)   Exposed ends of storm pipes shall have six-inch thick reinforced
concrete slope walls or riprap placed as directed by the town, unless the
Hamilton County Surveyor's Office or the Hamilton County Drainage Board has
different requirements for outfalls to county-regulated drains.
      (9)   For land disturbing activities, whenever evidence available to the
Town Engineer indicates natural surface drainage to be inadequate, the
developer shall provide an adequate storm sewer system.
      (10)   Height of cover for pipes shall meet the most restrictive
requirements of either manufacturer's recommendations or AASHTO Standard
Specifications for Highway Bridges. However, when installed under pavement, the
minimum pipe cover shall be two feet, or one foot if the pipe is reinforced
concrete.
   (J)   In designing stormwater detention facilities, the following minimum
standards shall apply. In general, stormwater detention analysis shall be
required for land-altering projects if the impervious surface area will be
increased by 0.5 acre or more. Stormwater detention shall be required if the
peak discharge of stormwater from the developed site will exceed the peak
discharge from the site in its present land use during the 2-, 10-, or 100-year
storm event. These general requirements will be reviewed on a case-by-case
basis by the town when making a determination to allow direct discharge or for
requiring detention facilities.
      (1)   The detention/retention facility shall be a stormwater control
facility that stores stormwater runoff indefinitely or detains it in order to
reduce the flow of stormwater runoff from a property, or a combination thereof.
      (2)   The USDA Soil Conservation Service (SCS) method of calculating
runoff and generating hydrographs shall be utilized for detention/retention
design. The SCS Type II rainfall distribution shall be used for hydrograph
computations in conjunction with 2-, 10-, or 100-year, 24-hour storm event.
Rainfall depths are as follows:
         (a)   2-year, 24-hour      2.90 inches
         (b)   10-year, 24-hour      4.15 inches
         (c)   100-year, 24-hour   5.75 inches
      (3)   Tables provided in Figures 4 through 6 shall be referenced for
determination of runoff curve numbers according to land uses and hydrologic
soil groups.
      (4)   Time of concentration shall be the time it takes for runoff to
travel from the hydraulically most distant point in the subarea to its outfall
point.
      (5)   Time of concentration calculations shall consist of overland
(sheet) flow time, shallow concentrated flow time, and travel time in channels,
pipes, gutters, etc. The maximum sheet flow calculation shall be 300 feet for
pervious area and 100 feet for impervious area. After these distances, flow
over land is calculated as shallow concentrated flow or channel flow as
appropriate. The minimum time of concentration shall be five minutes. A
worksheet for time of concentration calculations is provided in Figure 7. A
list of Manning's roughness coefficients for sheet flow is provided in Figure
8. These Manning's "n" values are used only in the sheet flow equation on the
worksheet and not for open channel design.
      (6)   The peak discharge resulting from the 100-year post-developed storm
event shall not exceed the peak discharge resulting from the ten-year pre-
developed storm event. In addition, the peak discharge resulting from the ten-
year post-developed storm event shall not exceed the peak discharge resulting
from the two-year pre-developed storm event. Outlet control structures of ponds
shall be designed to meet the required release rates.
      (7)   Wet detention/retention ponds shall have a minimum ten-foot wide
safety ledge placed below the normal pool water level at a maximum slope of 10:
1. The slope of the vegetated bank above the safety ledge shall not exceed 3:1.
Below the safety ledge, ponds with slopes steeper than 3:1 shall be secured
with riprap and no bank shall exceed a slope of 1'/2:1. The average depth of
the normal pool of the pond shall be six to eight feet, and depths of more than
eight feet should be avoided. A sediment forebay that consists of a separate
cell formed by an acceptable barrier is required at each inlet to the pond
unless the inlet provides less than 10% of the total design storm inflow to the
pond. A fixed vertical marker is required to measure accumulated sediment in
each forebay.
      (8)   Dry detention/retention ponds shall have a minimum bottom slope of
1% or be designed with subsurface drainage. Maximum vegetated bank side slopes
on the pond shall be 3:1. Hamilton County Surveyor's Office or the Hamilton
County Drainage Board may have more restrictive requirements for developments
in which the runoff outfalls to a county-regulated drain.
      (9)   Detention/retention ponds shall have a minimum freeboard of one
foot. Freeboard shall be considered the additional height above the 100-year
event peak storage water surface elevation.
      (10)   All impervious area of the site shall drain through the detention/
retention facility.
      (11)   The depth of stormwater runoff in parking lots providing detention
shall not exceed ten inches during the 100-year storm event.
      (12)   Detention/retention facilities shall be designed with emergency
spillways capable of handling 1% times the peak discharge resulting from the
100-year storm event. The developer is responsible for analyzing the ponding
results of a 100-year storm event and establishing flood protection grade for
all structures and verifying an adequate outlet for the 100-year storm.
   (K)   In general, Manning's equation may be used for open channel flow
calculations for unobstructed channels. Open channels with culverts may require
additional analysis. See Figure 9 for Manning's "n" values. In the design of
open channels, the following minimum standards shall apply:
      (1)   Open channels shall be designed to pass the runoff from the ten-
year storm event.
      (2)   Grass-lined channel side slopes shall be no steeper than 3:1.
      (3)   For yard ditches, longitudinal slopes of grass channels shall not
be less than 1%. Slopes between 0.3% and 1% shall require subsurface drainage
tile, shall be paved using six-inch reinforced concrete, or shall be provided
with a fabric-wrapped, washed gravel trench. No channel shall have less than a
0.3% longitudinal slope. Alternative channel treatments shall be subject to
approval of the town.
      (4)   For relatively large open channels, channel slopes and invert
treatments shall be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   (L)   In the design of streets, the following minimum drainage standards
shall apply:
      (1)   Generally, all streets shall be provided with an adequate storm
drainage system consisting of curbs, gutters and storm sewers, or side ditches
and culverts, as determined by the town. A four-inch minimum perforated pipe
underdrain, with a minimum one square inch of opening per foot of pipe, may be
required on each side of all streets if required by the town and shall:
         (a)   Be 18 inches below the soil sub-grade and parallel with the
longitudinal pavement grade, but no lower than the invert of the curb bo;
         (b)   Have a minimum slope of 0.2%;
         (c)   Flow to the low point and into the storm drainage system;
         (d)   Be placed below the pavement under the curbing;
         (e)   Be backfilled with #8 washed gravel.
      (2)   Open channels along dedicated roadways and within right-of-ways, or
on easements dedicated to the town, are not to be altered in any way without
written permission from the town. Driveways may be constructed over these
swales or ditches only when the town has approved appropriate sized culverts or
other structures.
      (3)   Culverts under public roadways shall be RCP (minimum Class III,
Wall B) and shall be sized to pass the peak runoff from the 25-year storm
event. Runoff from the 100-year storm event shall be analyzed to assure
overtopping of the roadway does not exceed six inches. More restrictive
overtopping conditions may be required at the discretion of the town.
      (4)   Culvert materials used under private drives and driveways will be
evaluated and approved on a case-by-case basis. A minimum diameter of 12 inches
is required for all culverts.
      (5)   Downspouts shall discharge onto a grass surface and be no closer to
the road than the building setback line. Sump pump outlets shall discharge to
underdrains at the curb.
   (M)   A landowner, builder, developer, and any individual or corporate
person who applies mortar or any other substance to brick, or who places any
hardened cement, or who pounds a nail into a board for the purpose of starting
to build anything in the town for which the approval of the town is required by
this chapter shall be fined no less than $100 per day and no more than $2,500
per day for each day from the day construction begins until the day
construction ends or approval of the town is granted.
(Ord. 2006-1-1, passed 1-10-06)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Annexing certain territory commencing at the southeast
94-8-1    8-9-94      corner of the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township
                      20 North, Range 3 East, located in Adams Township.
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at a point one rod
1996-12-3 12-30-96    east of the point where Sections 32 and 33 of Township 20
                      North, Range 3 East meets with Sections 4 and 5 of
                      Township 19, Range 3 East.
                      Annexing part of the east half of the southwest quarter
2008-3-1  4-3-08      of Section 29, Township 20 North, Range 3 East of the
                      Second Principal Meridian, Adams Township.
                      Annexing a part of the southwest quarter and a part of
2022-05   6-7-22      the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 20 North,
                      Range 3 East of the Second Principal Meridian, Adams
                      Township.
                      Annexing part of the south half of the northeast quarter
2022-07   6-21-22     of Section 6, Township 19 North, Range 3 East in Hamilton
                      County, Indiana.
2022-10   9-20-22     Annexing a part of Section 5, Township 19 North, Range 3
                      East of the Second Principal Meridian, Adams Township.
2022-11   9-20-22     Annexing a part of Section 5, Township 19 North, Range 3
                      East of the Second Principal Meridian, Adams Township.
                      Annexing the east 120 acres of the southwest quarter of
                      Section 33, Township 20 North, Range 3 East, except a
2023-18   11-6-23     part of the southwest quarter and a part of the northwest
                      quarter of Section 33, and a part of the southeast
                      quarter of Section 32, Township 20 North, Range 3 East,
                      Second Principal Meridian, Hamilton County, Indiana.
                      Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 33,
2023-19   11-6-23     Township 20 North, Range 3 East, Adams Township, Hamilton
                      County, Indiana.
                      Annexing a part of the east half of the southeast quarter
                      and 20 acres off the south end of the east half of the
2023-20   11-6-23     northeast quarter, Section 33, Township 20 North, Range 3
                      East, containing 100 acres, Adams Township, Hamilton
                      County, Indiana.
                     
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Concerning the advance refunding by the town of its Sewage
                     Works Refunding Revenue Bonds of 1988; authorizing the
                     issuance of Sewage Works Refunding Revenue Bonds of 1992
1992-2-2 2-2-92      for such purpose; providing for the collection,
                     segregation and distribution of the revenues of the sewage
                     works and the safeguarding of the interest of the owners
                     of the said bonds of 1992; and other matters connected
                     therewith.
                     Authorizing and providing for the issuance of general
2022-24  10-30-22    obligation bonds or bond anticipation notes of the town
                     for the purpose of funding capital improvements.
                     Providing for the appropriation of the proceeds of its
2022-25  10-30-22    general obligation bonds or bond anticipation notes of the
                     town for the purpose of funding capital expenditures and
                     improvements.
                    
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing the execution of a mutual aid agreement
Res. 1994-2-1 2-8-94      in the form marked as Exhibit A, attached hereto and
                          made a part hereof.
2017-1        2-13-17     Authorizing the sale of the Waterworks and Wastewater
                          Utilities to Indiana American Water.
2017-8        7-13-17     Authorizing the sale of the Waterworks and Wastewater
                          Utilities to Indiana American Water.
Res. 2018-5   4-9-18      Authorizing stormwater capacity agreement.
                          Authorizing the transfer of certain real property
Res. 2020-05  5-11-20     adjacent to the wastewater treatment plant to the
                          Sheridan Community Development Corporation.
Res. 2020-13  10-26-20    Approving an interlocal agreement with the Sheridan
                          Community Schools Corporation for the sale of salt.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement with the Sheridan
Res. 2020-14  10-26-20    Community Schools Corporation for the purchase of
                          gasoline, diesel fuel, and diesel exhaust fluid.
                          Approving an interlocal agreement with the Hamilton
Res. 2021-16  11-22-21    County Park and Recreation Board for the extension of
                          Monon Trail.
Res. 2021-25  12-27-21    Approving an interlocal agreement with INDOT for a
                          joint infrastructure project.
Res. 2022-02  1-18-22     Authorizing the purchase of land from and lease to
                          Sheridan Community Schools.
Res. 2022-06  3-1-22      Amending the purchase of land from and lease to
                          Sheridan Community Schools.
Res. 2024-08  6-18-24     Adopting plan of reorganization of the town and Adams
                          Township.
Res. 2024-15  11-7-24     Authorizing the execution and delivery of a lease-
                          purchase agreement with Crossorads Bank.
                         
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Motions
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                  Code Section
3-8-5-2                     30.19
3-10-6                      35.57
3-10-7                      35.57
4-14-1-18 (Repealed)        35.29
4-21.5-3-7 (Repealed)       150.38
5-3-1                       10.17 ,
                            32.57
5-3-1 et seq.               34.32
5-4-1                       35.51
5-11                        34.28
5-11-1-27(e)                34.60
5-11-10-1.6                 34.16
                            34.09,
5-13-9                      34.14,
                            35.35
                            30.03,
5-14-1.5                    30.30,
                            152.20
5-14-1.5-4(a)               30.30
5-14-1.5-5(a)               30.03
5-14-1.5-5(f)               30.30
5-14-1.5-6.1                31.06
5-14-3-3                    31.06
5-14-3-4(b)                 31.06
5-14-3-5                    31.06
5-14-3-8                    10.19
5-17-4 (Repealed)           152.19
5-22-2-14                   34.30
5-22-2-17                   34.30
5-22-2-23                   34.30
5-22-2-24                   34.30
5-22-2-26                   34.30
5-22-2-28                   34.30
5-22-2-30                   34.30
5-22-2-32                   34.30
5-22-2-38                   34.30
5-22-7-6                    34.34
5-22-9-4                    34.34
5-22-16.5-13 (Repealed)     34.42
5-23                        34.30
6-1.1-18.5-7                34.04
6-3.5-1.1-21.1 (Repealed)   34.18
6-3.5-6-17.3 (Repealed)     34.18
6-3.5-7-17.3 (Repealed)     34.18
7.1-3-9                     110.01
7.1-3-9-4                   110.01
8-1.5-3                     30.02
8-1.5-3-4                   53.01
8-1.5-3-8(f)                51.20
8-1.5-3-11(a)               34.11
8-1.5-3-11(b)               34.11
8-1.5-3-11(c)               34.11
8-1.5-3-11(d)               34.11
8-1.5-3-11(e)               34.11
8-1.5-3-11(f)               34.11
8-1.5-3-13                  34.10
8-1.5-5                     53.01
8-1.5-5-4                   53.01
8-1.5-5-6                   53.01
8-1.5-5-29                  53.03
8-1.5-5-30                  53.03
8-1.5-5-31                  53.03
9-13-2-1                    90.01,
                            90.04
9-13-2-1 et seq.            70.02
9-13-2-17                   70.02
9-13-2-133                  70.02
9-13-2-188                  70.02
9-21                        94.02
9-21-1-3(b)                 70.15
9-21-1-6                    70.01
9-21-1-8                    70.01
9-21-5-13 (Repealed)        70.31
9-21-16-5                   70.45,
                            Ch. 72, Sch. I
9-22-1-1                    70.48,
                            90.01
9-22-1-1 et seq.            70.48,
                            90.15
9-22-1-11                   70.48,
                            90.15
9-22-1-19                   90.15
9-22-1-30                   90.16
9-28-2                      35.22
9-29-4-2 (Repealed)         70.05
9-29-4-3 (Repealed)         70.04
9-30                        94.02
9-30-2-5(b)(1)              35.22
9-30-2-5(b)(2)              35.22
9-30-2-5(c)                 35.22
9-30-2-5(g)                 35.29,
                            35.31
9-30-3-1 et seq.            70.16
9-30-3-6(b)                 35.26
9-30-3-8(a)                 35.22
9-30-3-8(b)                 35.22
9-30-3-8(c)                 35.22
10-5-12-1 (Repealed)        113.16
10-5-13-1 (Repealed)        113.16
10-14-3-12                  30.37 ,
                            152.25
10-14-3-29                  30.37 ,
                            152.25
22-9-1-4 et seq.            96.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.            96.01
22-9.5-2-2                  96.02
22-9.5-2-3                  96.02
22-9.5-2-4                  96.02
22-9.5-2-8                  96.02
22-9.5-2-10 (Repealed)      96.02
22-9.5-2-10(b) (Repealed)   96.02
22-9.5-2-10(c) (Repealed)   96.02
22-9.5-2-11                 96.02
22-9.5-2-13                 96.02
22-9.5-3                    96.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.            96.09
22-9.5-4-8                  96.10
22-9.5-5                    96.02
22-9.5-5-1                  96.03
22-9.5-6                    96.02,
                            96.10
22-13-2-11                  152.20
25-37-1                     113.15
25-37-1-11                  113.01
31-30                       130.23
33-17-8-3(1) (Repealed)     35.29
33-17-8-3(2) (Repealed)     35.29
33-17-11-2(a)(2) (Repealed) 35.29
33-19-5-1 (Repealed)        35.30,
                            35.35
33-35-1-1                   35.50
33-35-2-1                   35.52
34-13-3-4                   94.03
34-19-1-4 (Repealed)        92.02
34-28-5-1(c)                35.30
34-28-5-1(c)(2)             35.24
34-28-5-1(e)                35.26
34-28-5-3                   35.20
34-28-5-3.5                 35.20
34-28-5-4                   35.27
34-28-5-11                  35.29
35-44.1-1-3                 34.40
35-47-2-3(b)                34.06
35-47-2-3(c)                34.06
35-47-5-13(a)               33.06
36-1-2-15                   111.01
                            30.01,
36-1-3                      30.02,
                            36.01,
                            95.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
                            50.002,
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)          50.999,
                            51.50
36-1-4                      30.01
36-1-4-11                   111.01
36-1-4-12                   30.35
36-1-4-13                   30.35
36-1-5 et seq.              30.01
36-1-5-4                    31.11,
                            31.12
36-1-5-5                    10.19
                            35.34,
36-1-6-2                    90.04,
                            94.01,
                            111.01
                            35.34,
                            90.04,
36-1-6-4                    94.01,
                            111.01,
                            151.02
36-1-7                      152.19
36-1-8-3                    34.26
36-1-8-5                    34.18
36-1-8-5.1                  34.18
36-1-8-10                   32.50,
                            32.54
36-1-11                     35.35
36-1-12-9                   34.39
36-1-20.2                   31.12
36-1-21                     31.11
36-1-21-3                   34.40
36-1.5-4-6                  30.01
36-4-6-14                   152.25
36-5-2-8(b)                 30.32
36-5-2-9                    111.01
36-5-2-9.8                  30.31
36-5-2-10(b)                10.17
36-5-2-10(b)(1)             10.17,
                            10.19
36-5-2-10(b)(2)             10.17
36-5-4-11                   111.01
36-5-6-7                    31.04
36-6                        30.01
36-7-2                      30.01
36-7-4-101 et seq.          152.15
36-7-4-900                  152.20
36-7-4-918.1                152.20
36-7-8                      152.19,
                            152.20
36-7-9                      152.19
36-7-9-9                    95.04
36-7-10.1-1 - 36-7-10.1-5   95.01
36-7-10.1-3                 95.02,
                            95.04
36-7-12-1 et seq.           152.16
36-7-14                     152.75,
                            152.76
36-7-14-6.1                 152.75
36-7-14-7                   152.75
36-7-14-9                   152.75
36-8                        30.01
36-8-1-12                   32.50
36-8-2                      30.01,
                            36.01
36-8-2-4                    111.01
36-8-2-8                    111.01
36-8-2-9                    111.01
36-8-2-10                   111.01,
                            113.01
36-8-2-11                   113.01
36-8-3-4                    31.08 ,
                            33.02
36-8-3-4.1                  33.02
36-8-3-20                   33.07
36-8-3.5-1 et seq.          32.50
36-8-3.5-3(b)               32.58
36-8-3.5-4                  32.51
36-8-3.5-4(e)               32.53
36-8-3.5-5.5(g)             32.60
36-8-3.5-6(b)               32.50,
                            32.54
36-8-3.5-6(c)               32.50,
                            32.54
36-8-3.5-6(d)               32.50
36-8-3.5-7(c)               32.56
36-8-3.5-9(a)               32.50,
                            32.57
36-8-3.5-10(c)              32.57
36-8-3.5-10(d)              32.57
36-8-3.5-12(f)              32.50
36-8-3.5-13(b)              32.50
36-8-3.5-13(c)              32.50
36-8-9 et seq.              33.06
36-8-9-3                    33.01
36-8-12                     32.01
36-8-12-2                   32.02
36-8-12-5(a)                32.02
36-8-12-5(b)                32.02
36-8-12-6 - 36-8-12-8       32.02
36-9-2                      30.01
36-9-15.5                   34.08
36-9-23                     50.001,
                            53.03
36-10-2                     30.01
36-10-3                     93.19
36-10-3-9(a)                93.18
36-10-3-12                  93.02
36-10-3-20                  93.02
36-10-3-22(a)               93.02
36-10-7                     30.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1985 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1-1-3             30.01
1-1-6             10.19
1-2-6             10.20
1-2-7             10.21
1-2-8             10.21
1-2-10            10.17
1-2-11            10.17
1-3-1             35.01
1-3-2             35.10
1-3-3             35.11
1-3-4             35.20
1-3-5             35.21
1-3-6             35.22
1-3-7             35.23
1-3-8             35.25
1-3-9             35.24
1-3-10            35.26
1-3-11            35.27
1-3-12            35.28
1-3-13            35.29
1-3-14            35.30
1-3-15            35.31
1-3-16            35.32
1-3-17            35.33
1-3-18            35.34
1-3-19            35.35
1-3-20            35.36
1-5-1             31.01
1-5-2             31.02
1-5-3             34.01
1-5-4             34.02
2-1-1             11.02
2-2-1             30.30
2-2-2             30.18
2-2-3             30.31
2-2-4             30.32
2-2-5             30.33
2-2-6             30.34
2-2-7             30.35,
                  30.99
2-2-8             30.36
2-2-9             30.03
2-2-10            30.02
2-2-12            30.16
2-3-1             31.03
2-3-2             31.04
2-3-3             31.05
2-3-4             31.06
2-3-5             31.07
2-3-6             31.08,
                  32.15
2-3-7             32.16
2-3-8             32.17
2-4-1             31.40
2-6-1             32.01
2-6-2             32.02
2-6-3             32.30
2-7-1             34.03
2-7-2             34.04
2-7-3             34.05
2-7-4             34.06
2-7-5             34.07
2-7-6             34.08
2-7-7             34.09
2-8-1             31.21
2-8-3             31.23
2-8-4             31.24
2-8-5             31.25
2-8-7             31.27
2-9-1             30.15
2-9-2             31.09
2-9-4             11.01
3-1-1             111.01
3-1-2             111.02
3-1-3             111.15
3-1-4             111.16
3-1-5             111.17
3-1-6             111.18
3-1-7             111.19
3-1-8             111.20
3-1-9             111.21
3-1-10            111.22
3-1-11            111.23
3-1-12            111.24
3-1-13            111.25
3-1-14            111.26
3-1-15            111.27
3-1-16            111.28
3-1-17            111.29
3-1-18            111.99
3-2-1             113.01
3-2-2             113.02
3-2-3             113.15
3-2-4             113.16
3-2-5             113.17
3-2-6             113.18
3-2-7             113.19
3-2-8             113.20
3-2-9             113.21
3-2-10            113.99
3-3-1             110.01
4-1-1             34.10
4-1-2             51.01
4-2-25            34.11
4-3-1             51.10
4-3-2             51.12
4-3-3             51.13
4-3-4             51.14
4-3-6             51.17
4-3-7             51.18
4-3-8             51.19
4-3-9             51.20
4-4-1             50.001
4-4-18            34.12
4-4-19            34.13
4-4-20            34.14
4-4-21            34.15
4-4-22            50.002
4-4-23            50.003
4-5-1             50.004
4-5-2             50.005
4-5-3             50.006
4-5-5             50.021
4-5-6             50.020,
                  50.022
4-5-7             50.023
4-5-8             50.024
4-5-9             50.025
4-5-10            50.026
4-5-11            50.027
4-5-12            50.028
4-5-13            50.040
4-5-14            50.041
4-5-16            50.042,
                  50.043
4-5-17            50.044
4-5-18            50.045
4-5-19            50.046
4-5-20            50.047
4-5-21            50.048
4-5-22            50.049
4-5-23            50.050
4-5-24            50.051
4-5-25            50.052
4-5-26            50.053
4-5-27            50.054
4-5-28            50.055
4-5-29            50.056
4-5-30            50.057
4-5-31            50.058
4-5-32            50.059
4-5-33            50.007
4-5-34            50.008
4-5-35            50.999
4-5-36            50.999
4-6-1             50.004
4-6-2             50.070
4-6-3             50.071
4-6-4             50.072
4-6-5             50.073
4-6-6             50.074
4-6-7             50.075
4-6-8             50.076
4-6-9             50.077
4-6-10            50.078
4-6-11            50.079
4-6-12            50.080
4-6-13            50.081
4-6-14            50.082
4-6-16            50.084
4-7-1             112.01
4-7-2             112.02
4-7-3             112.03
4-7-4             112.04
4-7-5             112.05
4-7-6             112.06
4-7-7             112.30
4-7-8             112.31
4-7-9             112.32
4-7-10            112.33
4-7-11            112.45
4-7-12            112.46
4-7-13            112.47
4-7-14            112.48
4-7-16            112.07,
                  112.08
4-7-17            112.09
4-7-18            112.10
4-7-19            112.11
4-7-20            112.12
4-7-21            112.13
4-7-22            112.14
4-7-23            112.15
4-7-24            112.16
5-2-1             95.01
5-2-2             95.02
5-2-4             95.04
5-2-5             95.05
5-2-6             95.06
5-4-1             92.01
5-4-2             92.15
5-4-3             92.25
5-4-4             92.26
5-4-5             92.27
5-4-7             92.02
5-4-8             92.99
6-1-1             93.15
6-1-2             93.16
6-1-3             93.17
6-1-4             93.18
6-1-5             93.19
6-1-6             93.20
6-1-7             93.21
6-1-8             93.01
6-1-9             93.02
6-2-1             93.35
6-2-2             93.36
6-2-3             93.37
6-2-4             93.38
6-2-6             93.39
6-2-7             93.40
6-2-8             93.41,
                  93.99
6-2-9             93.42
7-1-1             130.01
7-1-2             130.02
7-1-3             130.03
7-1-4             130.04
7-1-5             130.05
7-1-6             130.06
7-1-8             130.99
7-2-1             130.20
7-2-2             130.21
7-2-3             130.22
7-2-4             130.23
7-3-1             130.35,
                  130.99
7-3-2             130.36,
                  130.99
7-4-1             36.02
7-4-2             36.01
7-4-3             36.15
7-4-4             36.16
7-4-5             36.03
7-4-6             36.04
7-4-7             36.05
7-4-8             36.99
8-1-1             70.02
8-1-2             70.01
8-1-3             70.15
8-1-4             70.03
8-2-1             70.99,
                  Ch. 71, Sch. III
8-2-2             70.30
8-2-3             70.99
8-2-4             70.31
8-3-1             70.02
8-3-2             70.99,
                  Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-3-3             70.99,
                  Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-4-1             70.02
8-4-2             70.99,
                  Ch. 71, Sch. II
8-4-3             70.99
8-4-4             70.99
                  70.45,
8-5-1             70.99,
                  Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-5-2             70.46
8-5-3             70.47
8-5-4             70.48
8-5-5             70.99
8-6-1             70.60
8-6-2             70.99
8-6-3             70.61
8-7-1             70.75
8-7-2             70.02
8-7-3             70.76
8-7-4             70.77
8-7-5             70.78
8-7-6             70.99,
                  Ch. 72, Sch. II
8-8-1             90.01
8-8-2             90.02,
                  90.99
8-8-3             90.15
8-8-4             90.16
8-8-5             90.03,
                  90.99
8-8-6             90.04
8-9-1             94.01
8-9-2             70.16,
                  94.02
8-10-1            70.17,
                  70.99
8-10-2            94.03
8-10-3            94.04
8-10-4            94.05
8-11-1            70.04
8-11-2            70.05
9-1-1             152.15
9-1-2             152.16
9-1-3             152.17
9-1-4             152.18
9-1-5             152.19
9-1-6             152.20
9-1-7             152.21
9-1-8             152.21
9-2-1             152.01
9-3-2             152.36
9-3-3             152.37
9-8-1             152.60
9-8-2             152.61
9-8-3             152.62
9-8-4             152.63
9-8-5             152.64
                  
 
REFERENCES TO MOTIONS
 
Motion No. Date Passed Code Section
—        12-9-09     31.20
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      12-8-92     31.26
1993-6-2 6-22-93     152.23
1994-2-1 2-8-94      T.S.O. III
2005-3-2 3-8-05      31.22
—      5-24-13     31.12
—      6-14-12     31.11
2015-13  11-12-15    130.50
2018-5   4-9-18      T.S.O. III
2020-05  5-11-20     T.S.O. III
2020-13  10-26-20    T.S.O. III
2020-14  10-26-20    T.S.O. III
2021-02  3-8-21      34.27
2021-04  4-26-21     34.70 -
                     34.75
2021-16  11-22-21    T.S.O. III
2021-25  12-27-21    T.S.O. III
2022-02  1-18-22     T.S.O. III
2022-06  3-1-22      T.S.O. III
2022-12  6-7-22      30.37
2023-17  8-3-23      152.25
2024-07  6-4-24      34.85
2024-08  6-18-24     T.S.O. III
2024-11  9-3-24   34.16
2024-15  11-7-24     T.S.O. III
2024-17  11-25-24    38.01,
                     38.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                     Date Passed Code Section
                            1-1-52      31.27
                                         70.02,
1965-1-A                     8-22-78     70.99,
                                         Ch. 71, Sch. I
1966-C-1                     7-26-66     94.05
                                         93.01,
1970-P-1                     12-8-70     93.02,
                                         93.15 -
                                         93.21
                                         93.35 -
1972-P-2                     3-27-73     93.42,
                                         93.99
1974-C-1                     9-10-74     130.35,
                                         130.99
1975-3                       5-3-75      152.15
                                         112.01 -
                                         112.16,
1980-1                       7-9-80      112.30 -
                                         112.33,
                                         112.45 -
                                         112.48
1981-2                       3-11-81     31.08,
                                         31.09
1981-4                       9-1-81      130.20 -
                                         130.23
                                         70.60,
1981-6                       10-14-81    70.61,
                                         70.99
1982-1                       1-27-82     31.09
1982-2                       7-14-82     152.16,
                                         152.17
                                         70.31,
1982-4                       10-13-82    70.99,
                                         Ch. 71, Sch. III
1982-6                       12-8-82     30.16
1982-7                       12-22-82    30.15
                                         112.01 -
                                         112.16,
                            3-9-83      112.30 -
                                         112.33,
                                         112.45 -
                                         112.48
                                         111.01,
                                         111.02,
1983-1                       4-13-83     111.15 -
                                         111.29,
                                         111.99
                                         50.002 -
1983-7                       11-8-83     50.004,
                                         50.070 -
                                         50.084
                                         50.004,
                                         50.005 -
                                         50.008,
1983-8                       11-8-83     50.020 -
                                         50.028,
                                         50.040 -
                                         50.059,
                                         50.999
                                         51.12,
                                         51.13,
1984-2                       5-22-84     51.14,
                                         51.17 -
                                         51.19
1984-3                       6-12-84     70.30,
                                         70.99
                            8-28-84     34.08
1984-5                       10-9-84     51.01
1985-C2                      9-16-85     152.18 -
                                         152.21
                                         30.18,
                                         30.30 -
1985-C5                      9-16-85     30.36,
                                         30.99,
                                         31.40
                                         11.01,
1985-C6                      9-16-85     31.03 -
                                         31.07
                                         32.01,
1985-C7                      9-16-85     32.02,
                                         32.30
1985-C9                      9-16-85     34.09,
                                         34.10
                                         34.03 -
1985-C10                     9-16-85     34.07,
                                         70.04,
                                         70.05
                                         31.21,
1985-C11                     9-16-85     31.23 -
                                         31.25
                                         111.01,
                                         111.02,
1985-C12                     9-16-85     111.15 -
                                         111.29,
                                         111.99
1985-C13                     9-16-85     110.01
                                         113.01,
                                         113.02,
1985-C14                     9-16-85     113.15 -
                                         113.21,
                                         113.99
                                         130.20 -
1985-C15                     9-16-85     130.23,
                                         130.35,
                                         130.99
1985-C16                     9-16-85     34.11
                                         50.004 -
                                         50.008,
                                         50.020 -
1985-C17                     9-16-85     50.028,
                                         50.040 -
                                         50.059,
                                         50.999
                                         95.01,
1985-C19                     9-16-85     95.02,
                                         95.05,
                                         95.06
                                         92.01,
                                         92.02,
1985-C20                     9-16-85     92.15,
                                         92.25 -
                                         92.27,
                                         92.99
                                         93.01,
                                         93.02,
                                         93.15 -
1985-C21                     9-16-85     93.21,
                                         93.35 -
                                         93.42,
                                         93.99
1985-C22                     9-16-85     94.05
                                         130.01 -
1985-C23                     9-16-85     130.06,
                                         130.99
1985-C24                     9-16-85     130.36,
                                         130.99
                                         36.01 -
                                         36.05,
1985-C25                     9-16-85     36.15,
                                         36.16,
                                         36.99
                                         70.02,
                                         70.30,
                                         70.31,
1985-C26                     9-16-85     70.60,
                                         70.61,
                                         70.99,
                                         Ch. 71, Sch. III 
                                         70.46 -
1985-C27                     9-16-85     70.48,
                                         70.99,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
                                         70.01 -
1985-C28                     9-16-85     70.03,
                                         70.15,
                                         Ch. 71, Sch. II
                                         90.01 -
                                         90.04,
1985-C29                     9-16-85     90.15,
                                         90.16,
                                         90.99
                                         70.02,
1985-C30                     9-16-85     70.75 -
                                         70.78,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. II 
1985-C31                     9-24-85     70.02,
                                         70.99
                                         70.16,
1985-C32                     9-24-85     70.17,
                                         70.99 -
                                         94.04
1985-C34                     9-24-85     152.63
[Amended                     12-27-85    51.12 -
                                         51.14]
1986-1                       6-10-86     50.021
1987-1                       1-13-87     70.99,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
1988-3                       5-10-88     30.16
1988-8                       12-28-88    70.99,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
1989-1                       3-28-89     152.75,
                                         152.76
1989-3                       10-23-89    50.021
1989-SMC 8-8-5 and SMC 8-8-6 10-24-89    90.03
1989-SMC 8-8-5 and SMC 8-8-6 10-24-89    90.04
1989-SMC 8-8-5 and SMC 8-8-6 10-24-89    90.99
1990-1                       1-23-90     70.04
01-1990                      6-12-90     70.99
1990-2                       9-25-90     94.03
1990-3                       11-13-90    70.76
1992-2-2                     2-2-92      T.S.O. I
4-92-5                       4-28-92     92.99
4-92-6                       4-28-92     93.99
4-92-7                       4-28-92     130.36,
                                         130.99
4-92-8                       4-28-92     70.99
4-92-9                       4-28-92     Ch. 71, Sch. II
4-92-10                      4-28-92     70.99
4-92-11                      4-28-92     90.03,
                                         90.99
                                         70.99,
92-12-2                      12-22-92    92.99,
                                         93.99,
                                         130.99
1993-3-2                     4-13-93     37.01 -
                                         37.05
1993-4-1                     - -         Adopting Ordinance
1993-6-1                     6-8-93      Ch. 72, Sch. I
93-9-1                       9-28-93     96.01 -
                                         96.10
1993-11-1                    11-9-93     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1994-6-1                     6-14-94     Adopting Ordinance
94-8-1                       8-9-94      T.S.O. I
1995-5-1                     5-9-95      32.01
1995-6-1                     6-6-95      Adopting Ordinance
1995-8-1                     8-8-95      Ch. 71, Sch. III
1995-9-3                     9-28-95     34.16
1995-12-1                    12-5-95     Ch. 72, Sch. I
96-10-1                      11-12-96    51.11
96-10-2                      11-12-96    50.021
1996-12-3                    12-30-96    T.S.O. I
1997-1-1                     1-14-97     Ch. 71, Sch. II
                                         50.070,
1997-2-2(a)                  3- -97      50.072,
                                         50.076
-                            7-8-97      32.02
97-8-2                       8-12-97     152.75
97-8-3                       8-12-97     Adopting Ordinance
97-11-1                      11-11-97    Ch. 71, Sch. I
97-11-2                      11-11-97    70.77,
                                         70.99
-                            3-10-98     Adopting Ordinance
98-5-1                       5-12-98     31.40
                                         34.30 -
98-6-3                       6-30-98     34.32,
                                         34.34 -
                                         34.39
98-8-1                       8-11-98     152.01
98-10-01                     10-27-98    31.06
99-6-1                       6- - 99     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2000-1-2                     1-11-00     50.009,
                                         50.999
2000-2-1                     3-28-00     31.10
-                            4-25-00     Adopting Ordinance
                                         51.12 -
2000-10-2                    11-1-00     51.14,
                                         51.17
2001-5-1                     5-22-01     Adopting Ordinance
2001-9-2                     9-26-01     130.40,
                                         130.41
                                         130.40,
2001-10-1                    10-9-01     130.41,
                                         130.99
2002-4-1                     4-30-02     130.42,
                                         130.99
                                         50.090 -
2002-5-1                     5-14-02     50.103,
                                         51.30 -
                                         51.44
2003-8-2                     8-26-03     50.115 -
                                         50.127
2003-12-1                    12-9-03     34.17
2005-2-1                     2-22-05     73.01
2005-6-1                     6-14-05     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2005-6-2                     6-14-05     Ch. 72, Sch. III
2006-1-1                     1-10-06     154.01
2006-3-1                     3-28-06     51.14
2006-9-1                     9-12-06     30.19
-                            11-28-06    Ch. 71, Sch. II;
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
2007-3-2                     3-27-07     95.02
2007-3-3                     3-27-07     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2008-2-2                     2-21-08     34.18
2008-3-1                     4-3-08      T.S.O. I
2008-5-1                     5-15-08     51.50
2008-9-1                     9-25-08     34.19
2008-10-2                    10-23-08    37.15
2008-11-1                    11-20-08    70.85
2008-11-2                    12-29-08    31.23
-                            - -         51.39
2009-4-1                     4-9-09      34.16
2009-5-1                     - -09       34.20
2009-6-1                     6-25-09     70.85
2009-12-2                    12-17-09    Ch. 71, Sch. III
2009-12-4                    12-17-09    34.21
-                            5-13-10     51.11
2010-9-1                     10-14-10    51.02
2010-9-2                     10-14-10    52.01
2010-10-1                    11-18-10    51.12 -
                                         51.14
                                         50.070,
2010-10-2                    11-18-10    50.072,
                                         50.076,
                                         50.078
-                            8-25-11     51.11
2012-3-1                     4-12-12     34.23
                                         Ch. 71, Sch. II,
2012-5-1                     5-10-12     III,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
2012-5-2                     6-28-12     32.18
2012-6-1                     6-14-12     34.08
2012-6-2                     6-28-12     Adopting Ordinance
2012-7-1                     7-26-12     34.08
2012-7-2                     7-26-12     Ch. 71, Sch. III
2012-10-1                    10-25-12    32.18
2012-10-2                    10-25-12    96.01 -
                                         96.10
2012-12-1                    12-13-12    30.16
                                         50.001 -
                                         50.009,
                                         50.020 -
                                         50.028,
                                         50.040 -
                                         50.059,
                                         50.070 -
                                         50.084,
                                         50.090 -
2013-3-1                     3-28-13     50.103,
                                         50.115 -
                                         50.127,
                                         50.980 -
                                         50.987,
                                         50.990 -
                                         50.993,
                                         50.999,
                                         Ch. 50, Appx. A.1 -
                                         A.12
2013-4-1                     4-11-13     32.18
2013-6-1                     6-27-13     70.85,
                                         70.99
2013-8-1                     8-8-13      Ch. 72, Sch. I
                                         93.35 -
2013-8-2                     8-8-13      93.41,
                                         93.43,
                                         93.99
2013-11-1                    11-14-13    95.01 -
                                         95.06
2013-11-2                    11-14-13    93.42
2014-1-1                     1-9-14      34.22
2014-4-1                     4-14-14     34.30 -
                                         34.42
2014-5-1                     5-22-14     51.02
2014-8-1                     8-14-14     70.31
2014-8-2                     9-25-14     51.11
2014-12-1                    10-11-14    34.35
2015-6-2                     6-25-15     53.01 -
                                         53.03
2016-4-1                     4-14-16     34.50 -
                                         34.54
2016-7-1                     7-28-16     34.18
2016-8-1                     8-25-16     34.60
2016-12-1                    12-22-16    34.18
2017-1                       2-13-17     T.S.O. III
2017-1-2                     1-23-17     91.01
2017-2                       7-13-17     T.S.O. III
2017-3                       4-10-17     51.60 -
                                         51.70
2017-4                       4-24-17     32.18
2017-5                       4-24-17     31.13
2017-6                       4-28-17     94.06
2017-10                      10-9-17     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2017-13                      12-11-17    32.18
2018-2                       2-12-18     34.24
2018-5                       5-14-18     34.25
2018-7                       9-10-18     52.02,
                                         52.99
2018-8                       9-10-18     32.18
2018-10                      10-8-18     35.50 -
                                         35.61
2018-11                      10-22-18    50.072
2018-12                      11-15-18    50.010
2019-1                       2-11-19     70.85
2019-4                       3-11-19     34.08
2019-5                       4-8-19      152.24
2019-10                      10-28-19    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2019-12                      12-9-19     152.24
2020-01                      2-10-20     34.26
2020-04                      9-14-20     Adopting Ordinance
2021-02                      6-14-21     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2021-03                      4-26-21     34.28
2021-11                      12-27-21    33.01 -
                                         33.06
2021-13                      12-13-21    70.95
                                         52.01,
2022-01                      1-18-22     52.02,
                                         52.99
2022-05                      6-7-22      T.S.O. I
2022-06                      5-17-22     33.01 -
                                         33.06
2022-07                      6-21-22     T.S.O. I
2022-09                      7-5-22      32.18
2022-12                      7-5-22      33.07
2022-19                      9-6-22      32.18
2022-10                      9-20-22     T.S.O. I
2022-11                      9-20-22     T.S.O. I
2022-20                      9-20-22     30.16
2022-24                      10-30-22    T.S.O. II
2022-25                      10-30-22    T.S.O. II
2023-01                      3-7-23      32.18,
                                         34.29
2023-08                      5-1-23      152.80
2023-14-B                    9-19-23     34.29.1
2023-15                      9-19-23     34.29.2
2023-16                      9-19-23     34.29.3
2023-18                      11-6-23     T.S.O. I
2023-19                      11-6-23     T.S.O. I
2023-20                      11-6-23     T.S.O. I
2024-02                      1-2-24   34.16
2024-03                      1-2-24   94.07
2024-04                      2-6-24   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2024-05                      3-5-24      53.03
2024-06                      3-5-24      70.99,
                                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
2024-07                      5-8-24      34.30 -
                                         34.39
                                         32.18,
                                         70.85,
2024-13                      11-7-24     92.99,
                                         113.17,
                                         152.24
2024-14                      11-7-24     32.50 -
                                         32.60
2024-17                      12-30-24    30.01,
                                         30.16
2024-18                      12-30-24    34.29.4
                                        
 
 
 
