TOWN OF SHIRLEY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Res. 051021B, passed 5-10-21,
and Ord. 08-09-2021, passed 8-9-21
State legislation current through 2021 ALS Pamphlet #4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:_http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 20161203
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of SHIRLEY, Hancock/Henry County,
Indiana, is a duly operating Town under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Shirley,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Shirley; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make a reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the town to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
town and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the town that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY,
SHIRLEY, INDIANA: The Town Council of the Town of SHIRLEY, Hancock/Henry
County, Indiana, has determined the following:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY,
INDIANA this Ordinance will be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and signature by the Town Council, Town of SHIRLEY, Indiana, and proper
publication as provided by law.
    THIS ORDINANCE PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL, TOWN OF SHIRLEY,
this the 3rd day of December, 2016.
   TOWN COUNCIL, TOWN OF SHIRLEY:
/s/ Dennis Denny              /s/ Rebecca Perkins
Dennis Denny, President                  Rebecca Perkins, Vice President
                                                        
Joe Smith, Council Member
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Teresa Hester
Teresa Hester, Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 20190805
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of SHIRLEY, Hancock/Henry County,
Indiana, is a duly operating Town under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Shirley,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Shirley; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make a reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the town to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
town and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the town that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY,
SHIRLEY, INDIANA: The Town Council of the Town of SHIRLEY, Hancock/Henry
County, Indiana, has determined the following:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF SHIRLEY,
INDIANA this Ordinance will be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and signature by the Town Council, Town of SHIRLEY, Indiana, and proper
publication as provided by law.
THIS ORDINANCE PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL,
TOWN OF SHIRLEY, this the 5th day of August 2019.
TOWN COUNCIL, TOWN OF SHIRLEY:
/s/ Dennis Denny              /s/ Rebecca Perkins
Dennis Denny, President                  Rebecca Perkins, Vice President
/s/ Dennis Westrich
Dennis Westrich, Council Member
Attest:
/s/ Teresa Hester
Teresa Hester, Clerk Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   VOTING DISTRICTS; WARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Shirley
Town Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances”
or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing
authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise declared in the
section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Henry and Hancock Counties, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The Town of Shirley, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   State law definitions, see I.C. 1-1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the
prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
For provisions concerning the inspection of public
    records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The members of the Town Council of Shirley list violations which are
subject to the admission of violations before the Violations Clerk and the
amount of the civil penalty to be assessed to each violator who enters an
admission to a violation,
these violations and their schedules fines are as determined from time to time
by the Town Council.
   (B)   A person charged with a violation under this section is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless that person waives that right
to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk;
upon such an admission of the violation, the Violations Clerk-Treasurer shall
assess and receive from the violator the amount prescribed above.
   (C)   A person charged with a violation of any ordinance mentioned herein
wanting to exercise his or her right to trial, the person shall appear before
the Violations Clerk and deny the violation and enter a written denial with the
Clerk within 30 days of the date of the violation.
   (D)   Any person having been charged with violations of the scheduled
ordinances does the following:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this section;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of the violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter; the Clerk
shall report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violations cases for the municipal corporation.
   (E)   An ordinance violation admitted does not constitute a judgment for the
purposes of I.C. 33-19-5 and an ordinance violation costs fee may not be
collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-19-5.
   (F)   None of the penalties for the aforementioned violations are in excess
of $100 pursuant to I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person shall be responsible
for maintaining the ordinance violations period of the fourth Wednesday
of each month or the next subsequent Wednesday if a holiday falls when the
office is closed or in situations when the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to have
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer open or as the Clerk-Treasurer may direct.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal are responsible for providing
tickets to effectively implement operation of the Violations Bureau.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for depositing the fine
monies in the General Fund pursuant to Indiana law.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation: $75.
         (b)   For the second violation: $150.
         (c)   For the third violation: $250.
         (d)   For the fourth violation or all other violations not referenced
as a penalty (under §§
10.99 and
70.99): $2,500.
      (2)   Each day or occurrence shall constitute a new violation and
violations shall be based upon a yearly cycle. All fines less than $250 must be
paid to the ordinance violations clerk within 30 days of issuance of the ticket
or the fine will be filed with the court. Fines greater than $250 will proceed
to court. Once filed in court, the violator may be assessed court costs, and
the court may establish the fines not to exceed $2,500. Sewer service
violations constitute a fine of up to $2,500 per occurrence.
(Ord. 070701, passed 7-7-01; Am. Ord. 070715, passed 7-7-15)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 33 was recodified by P.L. 98-2004, and I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq. and
33-19-5 were repealed by Section 164 of P.L. 98-2004.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: VOTING DISTRICTS; WARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town divided into voting districts
   
11.02   North Ward
   
11.03   Center Ward
   
11.04   South Ward
   
11.05   Voting District Map
   
11.06   Extension of Districts
   
11.07   Composition of Districts
   
11.08   Time of division
   
11.09   Method of election
§ 11.01 TOWN DIVIDED INTO VOTING DISTRICTS.
   The Town of Shirley, Indiana, shall be divided into three voting districts
known as North Ward, Center Ward and South Ward.
(`95 Code, § 12.01)
§ 11.02 NORTH WARD.
   The North Ward shall be as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the
extension of the north line of North Railroad Street and County Road 1125 East
and west corporation line; thence northeastwardly along said extension of North
Railroad Street and then along the north line of North Railroad Street to
Second Street; thence north along Second Street to the intersection of Second
Street and Half Street; thence west along Half Street to the west corporation
line; thence following the corporation line southwardly to its intersection
with County Road 1125 East; thence south along said corporation line to the
point of beginning.
(`95 Code, § 12.02)
§ 11.03 CENTER WARD.
   The Center Ward shall be as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the
west extension of the north line of North Railroad Street and County Road 1125
East and the west corporation line; thence northeastwardly along said extension
of North Railroad Street and then along the north line of North Railroad Street
to Second Street; thence south along Second Street to the corporation line
which is also the north line of Shirley Municipal Waterworks Park; thence
eastwardly along said corporation line a distance of 649.5 feet to the east
corporation line which is also the east line of the Municipal Park; thence
south along said east corporation line to a point that intersects with the
north line of South Street, extended; thence west along the north line of the
said South Street extended (to the east) and the north line of South Street and
the said South Street extended (to the west) to its intersection with County
Road 1125 East and the west corporation line to the point of beginning; also
all of the area between the North Ward and the South Ward.
(`95 Code, § 12.03)
§ 11.04 SOUTH WARD.
   The South Ward shall be as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the
north line of South Street extended to the west and County Road 1125 East and
the west corporation line; thence east along the north line of South Street
extended to the west and the north line of South Street and the north line of
South Street extended to the east to its intersection with the east corporation
line which is also the east boundary line of the Shirley Municipal Waterworks
Park; thence south along the said east corporation line to its intersection
with the south corporation line at the centerline of Lee Street extended to the
east or a point 375.75 feet east of the centerline of First Street; thence west
along the south corporation line to the west corporation line where it
intersects with the centerline of Lee Street extended to the west or a point
193.00 feet west of where the centerlines of Lee Street and Noble Street
intersect; thence north along said west corporation line and along the
corporation line adjacent to Pine Lake to the point of beginning.
(`95 Code, § 12.04)
Editorial note:
   See Shirley, Indiana, Ward Boundaries, 1994
§ 11.05 VOTING DISTRICT MAP.
   Voting districts or Wards, as defined herein, are depicted on a map of the
Town of Shirley, Indiana, entitled: Map 1, WARD BOUNDARIES, 1994, which is made
a part hereof by reference.
(`95 Code, § 12.05)
§ 11.06 EXTENSION OF DISTRICTS.
   The boundaries of the Districts as above defined and established shall
automatically extend to the corporation line as such corporation line may
hereafter be changed.
(`95 Code, § 12.06)
§ 11.07 COMPOSITION OF DISTRICTS.
   Districts must:
   (A)   Be composed of contiguous territory;
   (B)   Be reasonably compact; and
   (C)   Contain, as nearly as is possible, equal population.
(`95 Code, § 12.07)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for petition to incorporate town, see I.C. 36-5-1-2
§ 11.08 TIME OF DIVISION.
   The division of voting districts shall be made in 1982 and every ten years
after that. The division may also be made in any other year, except that it may
also be made in any other year, except that it may not be made after January 1
in a year in which an election of town officers is to be held.
(I.C. 36-5-2-4.2) (`95 Code, § 12.08)
§ 11.09 METHOD OF ELECTION.
   A candidate for Town Council shall be voted upon and elected by all of the
voters of the town, although a candidate must reside in the District from which
he or she is a candidate.
(`95 Code, § 12.09)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
   
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.   PERSONNEL
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
34.   TOWN POLICY
   
35.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
   
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
   
37.   BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elective officers; appointed officials
   
30.02   Notice of election
   
30.03   Oath of officials
   
30.04   Bonds of officials
   
30.05   Filling vacancies in office
   
30.06   Vacancies in Town Council or elective offices
   
30.07   Adoption of ordinance, order or resolution; publication
   
30.08   Recording of adoptive ordinance; presumptive evidence
Town Council
   
30.20   Council members; voting districts
   
30.21   Term of office
   
30.22   Meetings
   
30.23   Presiding officer
   
30.24   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.25   Authority to fix compensation of officers and employees
   
30.26   Council powers
   
30.27   Quorum
   
30.28   Majority vote; two-thirds vote
   
30.29   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.30   Memberships and meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elective officers of the town, elected in accordance with the
provisions of the state election laws and I.C. 36-5-2-1 et seq. and 36-5-6-1 et
seq., shall be:
      (1)   The members of the Town Council;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint the following officials:
      (1)   The Town Maintenance Man;
      (2)   The Town Attorney;
      (3)   The Town Marshal; and
      (4)   Boards, commissions, officers and other employees pursuant to the
provisions of the laws in effect and as hereafter provided.
(`95 Code, § 20.01)
§ 30.02 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   The election inspectors shall make a certified statement, over their own
signatures, of the persons elected to fill the several offices in the town and
file the same with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county within ten days
from the day of the election. (`95 Code, § 20.02)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election, I.C. 3-10-2-2
§ 30.03 OATH OF OFFICIALS.
   The members of the Town Council and other officers-elect shall, within ten
days after the beginning of their term, take and subscribe, before some person
authorized to administer the same, the usual oath or affirmation for the
faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices.
(`95 Code, § 20.03)
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, I.C. 5-4-1-1
   Time for taking oath, 5-4-1-1.2
§ 30.04 BONDS OF OFFICIALS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal shall, before commencement of their
term of office, each and severally, give bond, payable to the State of Indiana,
with surety to the approval of the Town Council, in such an amount each as the
Town Council shall direct.
(`95 Code, § 20.04)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, 5-4-1-8
   Timing for giving bond, 5-4-1-9
§ 30.05 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies only to filling those vacancies concerning which
the person who last held the vacated office was elected to that office at the
most recent election or was selected for that office under this section.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council with the approval of the Town
Council shall appoint, as soon as is reasonably possible, an individual to fill
that vacancy.
   (C)   Any person who assumes the duties of any vacant office under this
section has and may exercise all of its rights, powers and duties, is entitled
to the compensation fixed for that office and is subject to all the liabilities
of that office.
(`95 Code, § 20.05)
§ 30.06 VACANCIES IN TOWN COUNCIL OR ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   Any vacancy occurring in the Town Council, or in any other elective office
of the town, shall be filled
by appointment by the Town Council pursuant to I.C. 3-13-9-1 et seq.
(`95 Code, § 20.03)
Statutory reference:
   Filling office of Town Council member, see I.C. 3-13-9-4
§ 30.07 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE, ORDER OR RESOLUTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by a majority of the Town Council. If
required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be
promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for a violation must, before it
takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1, unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-1-5; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted at the Town Hall.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a
zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a comprehensive plan, that is
adopted under I.C. 36-7.
(`95 Code, § 22.01)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance, order or resolution adoption; publication, see I.C. 36-5-2-10
§ 30.08 RECORDING OF ADOPTIVE ORDINANCE; PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the legislative body is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the majority of the Town Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2) (`95 Code, § 22.02)
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.20 COUNCIL MEMBERS; VOTING DISTRICTS.
   The Town Council has one member for each voting district (or ward)
established under state law. Its members are to be elected at large by the
voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-5) (`95 Code, § 22.03)
§ 30.21 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning
at noon on January 1 after his or her election and continuing until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(`95 Code, § 22.04)
Statutory update:
   Term of office of Council members, see I.C. 36-5-2-3
§ 30.22 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall hold regular meetings once a month at the
Shirley Town Hall. The time and dates of the regular Town Council meetings
shall be at the Town Council’s discretion.
      (1)   The regular session of the Town Council may be continued from day
to day upon majority vote of the Town Council and shall be adjourned from day
to day, according to the necessities of the occasion.
      (2)   If the Town Council meets on consecutive days, meetings shall be
held in compliance with this rule. Meetings of the Town Council may be
adjourned to a day not consecutive
with the date of the last meeting and shall be in regular session, upon a
proper motion and vote to that effect.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Town Council if the public
interest requires. At least ten days notice of the special meeting will be
given unless the meeting is called to deal with an emergency. The notice must
include a specific statement of the purpose of the meeting, and the Town
Council may not conduct any unrelated business at the meeting.
(`95 Code, § 22.05) (Am. Ord. 1106-00, passed 3-3-01)
§ 30.23 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Town Council shall choose a President from their membership for a
definite term of office, but not to exceed the term for which he or she was
elected to that Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7) (`95 Code, § 22.06)
§ 30.24 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall attend all meetings of the Town Council and
record the proceedings thereof.
   (B)   If the Town Council consists of an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk-Treasurer shall ex officio be a member of the Town Council,
to the extent only that, in case of a tie, he or she shall cast the deciding
vote.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8) (`95 Code, § 22.07)
§ 30.25 AUTHORITY TO FIX COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Council, Clerk-Treasurer, Town Maintenance Man and Town Marshal,
respectively, shall receive for their services such compensation as the Town
Council, by ordinance, may direct. The Town Council shall cause to be paid to
all other town officers and employees a just and reasonable compensation for
their services. The word COMPENSATION may include all forms of compensation,
including, but not limited to, wages, salaries, pension payments and insurance
payments as authorized by law.
(`95 Code, § 22.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related compensation provisions, see I.C. 36-5-3-2
§ 30.26 COUNCIL POWERS.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(`95 Code, § 22.09)
§ 30.27 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2) (`95 Code, § 22.10)
§ 30.28 MAJORITY VOTE; TWO-THIRDS VOTE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
      (2)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be
passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of all the elected
members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4) (`95 Code, § 22.11)
   (B)   Majority vote to pass ordinance. A majority vote of the legislative
body is required to pass an ordinance, unless a greater vote is required by
statute. (I.C. 36-5-2-9.6) (`95 Code, § 22.12)
   (C)   Two-thirds vote with unanimous consent of members present.
      (1)   A two-thirds vote, with unanimous consent of the members present,
is required to pass an ordinance of the legislative body on the same day or at
the same meeting at which it is introduced.
      (2)   Subsection (1) does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to
a zoning ordinance that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10) (`95 Code, § 22.13)
§ 30.29 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The most recently published edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised,
shall govern meetings of the Town Council unless those rules conflict with
state law or with a section of this code, or unless the rules have been
suspended after proper motion and vote by the Town Council. Two copies of these
rules are filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection and
are incorporated herein by reference.
(`95 Code, § 22.14)
§ 30.30 MEMBERSHIPS AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and to appropriate funds from
the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the town and for
the elected and appointed officials and members of the Town Council in local,
regional, state and national associations of a civic, educational or
governmental nature which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement
of town government operations.
   (B)   The Town Council is further authorized to budget and to appropriate
funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
   (C)   It is recommended that the town maintain membership in the Indiana
Association of Cities and Towns and the Indiana League of Municipal Clerks and
Treasurers.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay such dues and membership fees
as may be required by such organizations.
(`95 Code, § 27.01)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
President of Town Council
   
31.01   Creation of office
   
31.02   Powers and duties
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.20   Creation of office
   
31.21   Duties
   
31.22   General powers
   
31.23   Election; term
Town Maintenance Man
   
31.35   Office created
   
31.36   Duties
   
31.37   Reports
   
31.38   Authority
   
31.39   Emergency
   
31.40   Appointment
   
31.41   Salary
Contractors
   
31.55   Hiring of contractors
PRESIDENT OF TOWN COUNCIL
§ 31.01 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Town Council shall choose a President from their membership for a
definite term of office, but not to exceed the term for which he or she was
elected to that Board.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7) (`95 Code, § 21.01)
§ 31.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The President of the Town Council is the town executive. The President of
the Council may call a special meeting at any time by personal or written
notice to each member of the Council, and he or she shall call a special
meeting upon request in writing by two other members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-2) (`95 Code, § 21.02)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.20 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all the duties formerly provided by law
for the offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer, together with such further
duties as may be designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2) (`95 Code, § 21.05)
§ 31.21 DUTIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the town legislative body.
   (B)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-Treasurer
has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has paid out
town money.
   (C)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices.
   (D)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees shall
be paid.
   (E)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments of
town money.
   (F)   Prepare for the legislative body the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate.
   (G)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the legislative
body.
   (H)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed by
ordinance.
   (I)   Serve as Clerk of the legislative body by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings.
   (J)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee.
   (K)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the Judge of
the Court does not serve as Clerk of the Court or appoint a Clerk of the Court
under I.C. 33-35-3-1.
   (L)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6) (`95 Code, § 21.07)
§ 31.22 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   If the Town Council consists of an even number of members from any
cause, the Clerk-Treasurer shall ex officio be a member of the Council to the
extent only that, in case of a tie, he or she shall cast the deciding vote.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of all instruments required by law to be acknowledged, and he
or she shall have the custody of the seal of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5 and 36-5-6-6(a)(7))
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for effective operation of the office with the approval of the Town
Legislative Body. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the
Clerk-Treasurer’s pleasure. The Town of Shirley owns their own utilities, the
collection and billing of the utility rates are controlled by the town and
serve at the Town Council’s pleasure.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer has the power to solemnize marriages within the
confines of the town.
(`95 Code, § 21.08)
Statutory reference:
   Persons authorized to solemnize marriages, see I.C. 31-11-6-1
§ 31.23 ELECTION; TERM.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the town at large for
a term of four years.
(`95 Code, § 21.09)
Statutory reference:
   Residency; term of office, election, see I.C. 36-5-6-3 and 36-5-6-4
TOWN MAINTENANCE MAN
§ 31.35 OFFICE CREATED.
   The office of Town Maintenance Man is created.
(`95 Code, § 24.01)
§ 31.36 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Maintenance Man:
   (A)   To make routine inspections of the streets, ditches, culverts,
bridges, signage and any and all conditions within or affecting the right-of-
way area of the streets of the Town of Shirley, including repair needed, sign
replacement or repair, bad trees and the like;   
   (B)   To make routine inspections of park facilities, including playground
equipment, tables, benches, building exterior and any and all conditions
within or affecting individual public safety of the facilities; and
   (C)   Read water/sewer meters.
(`95 Code, § 24.02)
§ 31.37 REPORTS.
   The Town Maintenance Man shall report any condition found by inspection or
reported by citizen complaints in the area described under § 31.36 to the Town
Council. The report shall include the recording of dates of inspections or
complaints and the day and time of informing any one Town Council member.
Recording of complaints shall include the name, address and telephone of that
person making the complaint and, if injuries are involved, the name of person/
persons injured. Recording of repairs, maintenance and snow removal or any
condition identified in § 31.36 shall be done.
(`95 Code, § 24.03)
§ 31.38 AUTHORITY.
   The Administrator shall order and supervise any
work required, when authorized by the Town Council.
(`95 Code, § 24.04)
§ 31.39 EMERGENCY.
   Snow removal and street salting shall be considered an emergency and the
Town Maintenance Man or other town designee shall be responsible for
implementing the plan of action.
(`95 Code, § 24.05)
§ 31.40 APPOINTMENT.
   The office of Town Maintenance Man shall be filled by appointment by the
Town Council in the same manner that the office of Town Marshal is filled.
(`95 Code, § 24.06)
§ 31.41 SALARY.
   The salary of the Town Maintenance Man shall be established by ordinance and
provided for by funds budgeted and appropriated in either the Motor Vehicle,
Highway Fund and/or the General Fund.
(`95 Code, § 24.07)
CONTRACTORS
§ 31.55 HIRING OF CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   The town will require contractors to carry liability insurance and
Workmen’s Compensation coverage in amounts sufficient to cover the
municipality.
   (B)   The town specifically requests that the contractor furnish a
certificate of insurance prior to being employed for both types of coverage.
   (C)   The town requires the contractor to sign an indemnification agreement
prior to the instigation of any repairs and/or work by the contractor.
   (D)   The town may also require a bond if deemed necessary by the town.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Salary schedule
   
32.02   Salary amounts
   
32.03   Mileage and auto expense
   
32.04   Nepotism in contracting
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
32.20   Purpose and scope
   
32.21   Town policy
   
32.22   Reporting violations
   
32.23   Employees who seek help voluntarily
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 SALARY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall as of January 1 of each calendar year
receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town Council’s
resolution, which amount shall be paid from the civil town budget and shall be
subject to call without extra compensation unless approved by resolution of the
Council.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall as of January 1 of each calendar year receive
an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town Council’s resolution,
which amount shall be paid from the civil town budget and shall be subject to
call without extra compensation unless approved by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   The Deputy Town Marshal, if approved, shall as of January 1 of each
calendar year receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town
Council’s resolution, which amount shall be paid from the civil town budget and
shall be subject to call without extra compensation unless approved by
resolution of the Council.
   (D)   The Town Maintenance Man shall as of January 1 of each calendar year
receive an annual salary payable weekly as prescribed by Town Council’s
resolution, one-half of which amount shall be paid from the civil town budget
and the other one-half shall be paid out of the MVH Fund and shall be subject
to call without compensation unless approved by resolution of the Council.
   (E)   The Water Certified Operator and the Sewer Certified Operator shall as
of January 1 of each calendar year receive an annual salary payable monthly as
prescribed by the Town Council’s resolution, which amount shall be paid from
the civil town budget and shall be subject to call without extra compensation
unless approved by resolution of the Council.
   (F)   Other employees shall be compensated at an hourly rate and paid weekly
as prescribed by the Town Council.
   (G)   The Shirley Town Councilors shall as of January 1 of each calendar
year receive an annual salary payable quarterly as prescribed by Town Council’s
resolution, which amount shall be paid from the civil town budget and shall be
subject to call without extra compensation unless approved by resolution of the
Council.
(`95 Code, § 25.01)
§ 32.02 SALARY AMOUNTS.
   The applicable salaries and hourly rates shall be established by ordinance
each year. The salary ordinances are made a part of this code by reference, and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall keep all such ordinances on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(`95 Code, § 25.02)
§ 32.03 MILEAGE AND AUTO EXPENSE.
   Town officials shall be paid and allowed the authorized state rate per mile
as calculated on an official Indiana State Highway Map for mileage traveled
(outside of the town) in the course of carrying out the business of the town.
The Town Maintenance Man shall be paid in a sum not inconsistent with state
mileage rates as compensation for the use of his or her truck on town business.
Claims for payment shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer on claim forms and
shall be verified.
(`95 Code, § 26.01)
§ 32.04 NEPOTISM IN CONTRACTING.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requests a different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.
         (a)   The Mayor;
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer;
         (c)   A member of the Town Council.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including an adopted child or stepchild;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister, including a
brother or sister by half blood;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle;
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Contracting policy.
      (1)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official;
only if the requirements of this section are satisfied and the elected official
does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4.
      (2)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (A)(1) above if all of the
following are satisfied:
         (a)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by the Town
Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract or purchase;
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               A.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               B.   The clerk of the circuit court in the county where the Town
Council takes final action on the contract or purchase;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the town:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The town satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12;
         (d)   The elected official complies with the disclosure provisions of
I.C. 35-44.1-1-4, if applicable.
      (3)   This division (B) does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this policy. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive officer
not later than December 31 of each year.
      (2)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
Accounts under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the executive officer
stating whether the town has implemented a policy under I.C. 36-1-21.
(Res. 2016-01-02, passed 1-30-16)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 32.20 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The Town of Shirley, Indiana, is committed to providing a safe and
protective work environment for its employees. To accomplish this objective,
appropriate policies are implemented from time to time which are consistent
with the spirit and intent of this commitment. With this in mind, the town has
developed this drug-free workplace policy, the purposes of which are to
establish and maintain a work environment that is free from the effects of any
illegal drug abuse problem they may have. This policy includes pre-employment
drug screen testing of job applicants. This policy is applicable to all
employees regardless of title or position and includes temporary and part-time
employees as well as paid and unpaid reserve police officers and volunteer
firefighters.
(`95 Code, § 28.01) (Ord. 441994, passed 4-4-94)
§ 32.21 TOWN POLICY.
   (A)   Before any applicant for employment is hired or anyone is permitted to
serve as a reserve police officer or volunteer firefighter, he or she will be
tested for the presence of illegal drugs. Applicant testing will be done as a
regular part of pre-employment screening as a condition of the job offer.
Applicants include all regular full-time and part-time, all rehires unless
reinstated within 30 days, all temporaries who will be on our payroll and all
paid and unpaid reserve police officers and volunteer firefighters. Should an
applicant test positive on our initial test, a confirmatory test will be made
upon the same sample. If the confirmatory test is also positive the applicant
will be denied employment and not be permitted to serve as a reserve police
officer or volunteer firefighter. An applicant who declines to submit to
testing will be denied employment and not be permitted to serve as a reserve
police officer or volunteer firefighter. Applicants who are denied because of a
positive test may re-apply and be re-tested after one year from the time of the
initial rejection.
   (B)   Whenever testing is required under this policy, the town will, when
possible, direct the applicant to submit a urine sample. If a urine test is not
possible, then a blood sample will be required.
   (C)   The town requires all employees, reserve police officers and volunteer
firefighters to report to work in a condition that allows them to perform their
duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees, reserve police officers and
volunteer firefighters will not be permitted to work under the influence of
alcohol or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting the job
performance.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this drug-free workplace policy will be
considered just cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge,
even for a first offense.
   (E)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Control Substances Act (21 USC 812) and
the Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15) and
prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for the specific treatment purposes of the person. Abuse
of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this policy. This drug-free workplace policy prohibits the
illegal use, sale, transfer, distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture
of narcotics, drugs or other controlled substances while on the job or on
property owned by the town, including vehicles used for town business.
   (F)   The town also reserves the right to make a search of any real or
personal property owned by or under the control of the town if a violation of
this policy is suspected.
   (G)   Any employee, reserve policy officer or volunteer firefighter who
uses, sells, manufactures, participates in the distribution of or possesses
illegal drugs may be reported to the appropriate law enforcement agency which
may result in criminal prosecution.
   (H)   The town, at the town’s sole discretion, may provide any employee,
reserve police officer or volunteer firefighter the option to voluntarily
participate in an approved assistance or rehabilitation program. When this
option is offered, any leave of absence will be consistent with the present
policies and practices of the Town of Shirley, any employee, reserve police
officer or voluntary firefighter who voluntarily participates in an approved
assistance or rehabilitation program will be fully responsible for his or her
costs incurred in such treatment or related treatment if such costs are not
covered through group medical insurance in which the employee, reserve police
officer or voluntary firefighter is enrolled.
(`95 Code, § 28.02) (Ord. 441994, passed 4-4-94)
§ 32.22 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees, reserve police officers and volunteer firefighters must, as
a condition of employment or service, abide by the terms of the town’s drug-
free workplace policy and report any
convictions to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, whether or not they occurred
while conducting town business. The report of the conviction must be made to
the Clerk-Treasurer within five days after the conviction period.
   (B)   An employee, reserve police officer or volunteer firefighter who is
involved with at-the-job illegal drug activity may be considered in violation
of this policy. In determining whether disciplinary action will be imposed for
this activity, the Town of Shirley will consider the circumstances of each
incident, including, but not limited to any adverse affect that person’s
actions may have on himself or herself, other employees, reserve police
officers, volunteer firefighters, the public or the town’s reputation and
image.
(`95 Code, § 28.03) (Ord. 441994, passed 4-4-94)
§ 32.23 EMPLOYEES WHO SEEK HELP VOLUNTARILY.
   (A)   The town recognizes that substance abuse is a medical problem which
can be successfully completed. Almost all substance abusers deny they have a
problem and ordinarily they do not seek treatment voluntarily. This denial is
the single most significant obstacle to successful treatment. Recognizing this
reality, although the town encourages voluntary substance abuse treatment, the
town will take disciplinary action against employees, reserve police officers
and volunteer firefighters who violate this policy and do not seek treatment.
This action is designed to break through a denial barrier and convince
substance abusing employees, reserve police officers or volunteer firefighters
of a need for treatment.
   (B)   Recognition and treatment of substance abuse is important to
successful rehabilitation and for reduced personal, family and social
disruption. The town encourages the earliest possible diagnosis and treatment
for substance abuse and supports sound treatment efforts. However, the decision
to seek diagnoses and accept treatment for substance abuse is the individual
responsibility of each employee, reserve police officer or volunteer
firefighter.
   (C)   Employees, reserve police officers and volunteer firefighters who
voluntarily request assistance in dealing with a substance abuse problem prior
to violation of this policy will be offered a leave of absence consistent with
the present policies and practices of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
   (D)   Voluntary treatment for substance abuse will not prevent disciplinary
action for violation of the town’s drug-free workplace policy or other
policies, nor will relieve employees, reserve police officers and volunteer
firefighters of responsibility for their job performance. Employees, reserve
police officers and volunteer firefighters who undergo voluntary counseling or
treatment and who continue to work must meet all established standards of
conduct and job performance.
(`95 Code, § 28.04) (Ord. 441994, passed 4-4-94)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Appointment of Marshal; Deputy Marshal; terms
   
33.02   Powers and duties of Marshal; Deputy Marshal
   
33.03   Compensation
   
33.04   Town Marshal’s job description
   
33.05   Police reserve units
   
33.06   State training requirements
   
33.07   Termination or suspension; procedures
   
33.08   Funds collected by Police Department
Operating Procedure Guidelines for Town Marshal
   
33.20   Purpose
   
33.21   Police vehicle operation
   
33.22   Traffic safety
   
33.23   Emergency operation and pursuit driving
   
33.24   Silent runs
   
33.25   Pursuit driving conditions
   
33.26   Termination of pursuit
   
33.27   Maintenance of Department issued equipment
   
33.28   Authorized weapons
   
33.29   Training
   
33.30   Dress code
   
33.31   Town vehicles
Firearm Policy
   
33.45   Comprehensiveness of policy
   
33.46   Legal disclaimer
   
33.47   Defining deadly force
   
33.48   Value of human life
   
33.49   Shoot to stop
   
33.50   Defense of life
   
33.51   Juveniles
   
33.52   Warning shots
   
33.53   Risk to innocent bystanders
   
33.54   Shooting at or from moving vehicles
   
33.55   Shots to destroy animals
   
33.56   Safe handling of firearms
   
33.57   Secondary weapon
   
33.58   Off-duty weapon
   
33.59   Firearms training and certification
   
33.60   Firearm certification records
   
33.61   Departmental control of weapons
   
33.62   Department investigative processes
   
33.63   Civil rights investigation
   
33.64   Administrative leave/duty
   
33.65   Legal representation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT OF MARSHAL; DEPUTY MARSHAL; TERMS.
   (A)   Marshal. The Town Council shall appoint a Marshal who shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2) (`95 Code, § 23.01)
   (B)   Deputy Marshal. The Town Council may appoint a Deputy Marshal. The
Deputy, if appointed, shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(`95 Code, § 23.02)
§ 33.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MARSHAL; DEPUTY MARSHAL.
   (A)   Marshal.
      (1)   The Marshal shall be the chief police officer of the town. As such,
the Marshal and the Deputy Marshal comprise the Police Department of Shirley.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
      (2)   In executing the orders of the Town Council and enforcing the
ordinances of the town and the laws of the state, the Marshal shall possess all
the common-law and statutory powers of constables, except in relation to the
service of civil process; and any warrant of search or arrest issued by any
judge, magistrate or justice of the peace of this state may be executed in any
part thereof by the Marshal subject to laws of this state governing arrest and
bail.
      (3)   He or she shall be conservator of the peace in the town and shall
arrest, without process, all persons who within the Marshal’s or Deputy’s view
commit any crime or misdemeanor contrary to the statutes of this state or
ordinances of the town and take them before the court having jurisdiction of
the offense with which the person is charged and retain them in custody until
the cause of such arrest has been investigated and shall suppress all breaches
of the peace within his or her knowledge. Authority is given for the Marshal or
Deputy to call to the Marshal’s or Deputy’s aid the power of the town and to
pursue and commit to jail all persons who commit an offense in violation of the
statutes of this state or the ordinances of the town.
      (4)   The Marshal or Deputy shall have the power and it shall be his or
her duty to serve all process issuing either from the County Court or the Town
Council. (I.C. 36-5-7-4) (`95 Code, § 23.03)
   (B)   Deputy Marshal. The Deputy Marshal, in executing the orders of the
Town Council or enforcing the ordinances of the town, shall possess the powers
and be subject to the liabilities of the Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.04)
§ 33.03 COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall regulate the amount of compensation to be received by
the Marshal and the Deputy Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.05)
§ 33.04 TOWN MARSHAL’S JOB DESCRIPTION.
   The Town Marshal’s job description shall be as follows:
   (A)   Hours:
      (1)   Twenty-four-hour duty on call;
      (2)   Five days a week;
      (3)   Weekends have no set times as this is on call only.
   (B)   Patrolling town under set times and hours due to times and conditions.
   (C)   Marshals and Deputies will be on a one year probation.
   (D)   Training of deputies and reserves.
   (E)   Responsible for officers and equipment.
   (F)   Door check of businesses.
   (G)   Work with Hancock County and Henry County if called to assist.
   (H)   Inventory on all town Police equipment.
   (I)   Notify county on who is working the weekends.
   (J)   Services help with traffic-control for funeral homes and churches if
called upon.
   (K)   Help Town Maintenance Man on streets during bad weather and at the
sewage lagoon if needed.
(`95 Code, § 23.09) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.05 POLICE RESERVE UNITS.
   (A)   Police Reserve Unit established, ratification of prior actions. There
is established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, a Police Reserve Unit under the
office of the Town Marshal. Police reserve officers shall be volunteers and
shall be known as Reserve Deputy Marshals. The number of Reserve Deputy
Marshals shall be not less than two nor more than six. Pursuant to the powers
of the Town Council of Shirley, Indiana, under I.C. 36-1-4-16, all actions
heretofore taken by an officer of the town in establishing or administering a
police reserve unit and all actions taken by any member of such unit are fully
ratified, validated and legalized.
   (B)   Reserve Deputy Marshal; status, direction. Reserve Deputy Marshals
shall not be considered full/part-time Deputy Marshals, but shall have all
police powers of full/part-time Deputy Marshals except as otherwise limited by
division (C) of this section. Reserve Deputy Marshals shall at all times be
under the direction of the Town Marshal, Deputy Marshal and members of the Town
Council of Shirley, Indiana, and shall be subordinate to and under the command
of the Town Marshal and the Town Council of Shirley, Indiana and any full/part-
time Deputy Marshal or any other regular law enforcement officer performing law
enforcement functions within the Town of Shirley, Hancock County, State of
Indiana.
   (C)   (1)   All reserve officers fall under the authority of the Town
Marshal and the Town Council.
      (2)   Reserve officers will have police powers as prescribed by law while
on duty.
      (3)   All reserve officers are required to work 24 hours per month unless
lesser hours are approved by Town Marshal.
      (4)   All reserve officers are required to pass a firearms qualification
course given by the Town Marshal or outside agency. State mandated 24 hours of
training required by Indiana Law Enforcement Academy (ILEA).
      (5)   All reserve officers will be in uniform while on patrol unless the
Marshal orders otherwise.
      (6)   All new reserve officers shall be on a one-year probation.
      (7)   All new reserve officers will work with a senior officer until they
have completed 320 hours of training in the field.
      (8)   All reserve officers are subject to be “on call” by the Marshal/
Deputy Marshal in time of emergency or if manpower is needed.
      (9)   All reserve officers shall conduct themselves in a professional
manner at all times and if an officer is in violation of this the officer shall
be subject to disciplinary action.
      (10)   All reserve officers must be at least 25 years of age when hired,
have a valid Indiana driver’s license with no arrest records. Officers may not
have any of the following arrests: felony, battery, domestic battery, or
violent offense arrest.
   (D)   Termination. It is expressly understood that each Reserve Deputy
Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council and may be terminated at any
time for any reason by the Town Council or upon recommendation of the Town
Marshal.
(Ord. 030397, passed 3-3-97; Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.06 STATE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Marshal and the Deputy Marshal must meet the state training requirements
of the Law Enforcement Training Academy.
(`95 Code, § 23.06)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory training for law enforcement officers, see I.C. 5-2-1-1 et seq.
§ 33.07 TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION; PROCEDURES.
   Before terminating or suspending a Marshal or Deputy Marshal who has been
employed by the town
for more than six months after completing the minimum basic training
requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9,
the Town Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedure
prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for city fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3) (`95 Code, § 23.07)
§ 33.08 FUNDS COLLECTED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The funds collected by the Police Department for services (criminal history/
background checks, fingerprinting, accident/crash reports, and vehicle
releases) shall be allocated to the Police Department’s Continuing Education
Fund.
Fees added: (Police)
Criminal history/background checks report      $10 per
Fingerprint services                  $15 (two cards)
Accident/crash reports               $12
Vehicle release (general)               $20
Vehicle release (drugs found in car)         $300
Vehicle release (drugs, guns in car)         $500
DWS (driving while suspended)            $75
OVWI (driving while intoxicated)            $150
HTV (habitual traffic violator)            $250
(Ord. 2017-007-Amended-1, passed 11-3-18)
OPERATING PROCEDURE GUIDELINES FOR TOWN MARSHAL
§ 33.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish guidelines concerning the
operation and function of the Town Marshal and authorized deputies during
normal, emergency and pursuit conditions and procedures related to the
operations of police vehicles and weapons.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(A))
§ 33.21 POLICE VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town that the Town Marshal and all authorized
deputies operate town owned vehicles with regard to the safety of all persons.
Officers are reminded that state and local provisions will not protect the Town
Marshal and/or authorized deputies from the consequences of their reckless
disregard for the safety of others, if that should occur.
   (B)   The traffic law exemptions permitted under I.C. 9-21-17-20 are only
allowable when the emergency vehicle is making use of audible or visual signals
while responding to an emergency or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law. Therefore, the officer shall obey all lawful traffic
regulations while on routine patrol.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(B))
Statutory reference:
   Duty to drive with due care, see I.C. 9-21-17-20
§ 33.22 TRAFFIC SAFETY.
   (A)   The officer shall consider road, traffic and weather conditions at all
times while operating a police vehicle.
   (B)   Officers shall use reasonable care, regardless the nature of the run,
for the protection of life and property.
   (C)   When driving under emergency conditions, the following procedures
shall be adhered to:
      (1)   Police vehicles approaching a red traffic signal will yield right-
of-way to all moving vehicles and pedestrians within the intersection and those
approaching in a manner that would cause them to become a hazard. Officers
shall stop the vehicle if necessary and proceed only when safe;
      (2)   Police vehicles approaching a green traffic signal or an
intersecting street controlled by a stop sign shall be prepared to take evasive
action and brake if necessary, then proceed with caution only when safe.
   (D)   Upon arrival at the scene, an officer should secure the vehicle, if
feasible. The vehicle should be turned off and locked if it will be unattended
for a reasonable period of time as circumstances permit. Whenever possible the
vehicle should not be left unattended and running while on a non-service run.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(C))
§ 33.23 EMERGENCY OPERATION AND PURSUIT DRIVING.
   (A)   Police vehicles should be operated on an emergency basis only when the
officer has reasonable cause to believe a life is in danger or when in
immediate pursuit of a law violator. Such emergency includes:
      (1)   Officer needs assistance;
      (2)   Person calling for help;
      (3)   Report of explosion;
      (4)   Report of shooting;
      (5)   Any case requiring the immediate and urgent need of an officer.
   (B)   While operating a police vehicle under normal emergency conditions,
the red and blue lights and siren must be operating, with the exception of a
silent run.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(D)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.24 SILENT RUNS.
   (A)   SILENT RUN is defined as operating under emergency conditions
utilizing red and blue lights but no audible signal.
   (B)   Silent runs are authorized for the following:
      (1)   Robberies in progress;
      (2)   Burglaries in progress;
      (3)   Situations when the officer’s discretion determines the need for
red and blue lights only, no siren.
   (C)   When using red lights only, the officer shall:
      (1)   Obey all traffic laws;
      (2)   Stop at all stop signs and traffic signals, proceeding only when
the way is clear;
      (3)   Operate with extreme caution and at reasonable speed so as not to
endanger a life and/or the property of others.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(E)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.25 PURSUIT DRIVING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   PURSUIT is defined as a sustained chase of a known or suspected law
violator and is permitted in the following circumstances:
      (1)   On-sight pursuit of a known or suspected felon;
      (2)   On-sight pursuit of traffic or misdemeanor violators witnessed by
the officer;
      (3)   To assist the pursuing vehicle, but only when ordered to do so
through communications from the Hancock or Henry County Sheriff’s Department,
Indiana State Police, or Shirley Town Marshal.
   (B)   The following pursuit procedures shall be observed:
      (1)   While operating under pursuit conditions, red lights and siren must
be operating;
      (2)   The pursuing officer shall notify the Hancock or Henry County
Sheriff’s Department Communication Center immediately of the following:
         (a)   Unit number;
         (b)   Location;
         (c)   Direction of travel;
         (d)   Reason for pursuit;
         (e)   Description of vehicle, occupants, license number and the like;
      (3)   The officer shall remain in constant contact with the applicable
jurisdiction and advise of all pertinent information until such time as
additional units aid in the pursuit.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(F)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.26 TERMINATION OF PURSUIT.
   (A)   Pursuit conditions may be terminated upon the authority of the
pursuing officer or the Town Marshal, Hancock/Henry County Sheriff Department
or Indiana State Police.
   (B)   The only unit remaining at the termination point should be the initial
pursuing officer, last pursuing officer and anyone ordered by the
Communication Center of the Hancock or Henry County Sheriff’s Department to
participate in the pursuit.
   (C)   The officer of the initial pursuit vehicle is responsible for the
arrest of the suspect when the suspect voluntarily terminates the pursuit, is
involved in a traffic accident or forced to stop by other means.
      (1)   The primary unit is responsible for preparation of all necessary
reports.
      (2)   The primary unit shall make its report to the prosecutor or the
Shirley Town Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(G)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.27 MAINTENANCE OF DEPARTMENT ISSUED EQUIPMENT.
   The Town Marshal and each authorized deputy is responsible for the
maintenance and care of Department issued clothing and equipment, including
firearms and vehicles. Individual negligence resulting in uncommon wear of
clothing or breakdown of equipment is subject to disciplinary action.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(H))
§ 33.28 AUTHORIZED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Those weapons authorized by the prosecutors, Town Marshal, and the
town as permitted by law and meeting state requirements. A list of said weapons
shall be on record with the Clerk-Treasurer, and the list shall be updated once
a year by the Town Marshal.
   (B)   Ammunition.
      (1)   The following lists reflects ammunition currently authorized for
use by the Town Marshal and authorized deputies:
         (a)   Jacketed/semi-jacketed/bal/hi- velocity/hi-expansion rounds are
authorized for hand guns;
         (b)   #0/#00/#4 shot are authorized for shot guns;
      (2)   Each officer will be required to qualify with all weapons a minimum
of three times a year.
      (3)   All officers must use with .223 caliber ammo. (5.56) for patrol
rifle.
      (4)   All ammunition for weapons that is excess will be stored by locking
said ammunition in the evidence locker;
      (5)   Town owned weapons will not be used for private (non-Department
related) use of an individual officer. This also includes ammunition;
      (6)   All officers are to qualify with any weapon they carry on or off
duty.
      (7)   Any officers on the Police Department violating any of these
provisions is subject to Department discipline action.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(I)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.29 TRAINING.
   (A)   All training is to be in compliance with all state statutes.
   (B)   Additional attendance by the Town Marshal and/or designated authorized
deputies to continuing training sessions is mandatory when requested by the
Town Marshal or Training Officer.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(J)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.30 DRESS CODE.
   (A)   All on-duty personnel shall wear a dress uniform and all insignia
awards and accouterments for court, special functions or as directed by the
Town Marshal.
   (B)   All off-duty personnel while performing other designated town
functions shall be dressed in civilian clothing of a casual but neat and
orderly appearance.
   (C)   All personnel shall maintain a neat and orderly physical appearance,
including neatly trimmed hair, facial hair and other personal traits.
   (D)   All on-duty personnel shall wear uniform approved by Town Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(K)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.31 TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Anyone can ride in town police vehicles if approved by Town Marshal
and with a signed waiver.
   (B)   No town police car shall be used outside the corporate limits unless
you are on a call. You must be within our two counties, or the surrounding
county.
   (C)   Personal vehicles of the members of the Town Police Department shall
not be used for any police business unless authorized by the Town Marshal and
two Town Council members.
   (D)   The Town of Shirley, Indiana, is not responsible for the actions of
the Town Marshal, Deputy or any Reserve while not on duty.
   (E)   The Town Marshal, Deputy or any member of the Reserves shall not
volunteer on their own to help any other law enforcement agency when said
personnel are on duty unless it is extreme circumstances or officer is the
closest unit within reason.
   (F)   The Town Marshal will make monthly car reports regarding mileage
driven, amount of gas used, any maintenance performed, the number of gun
permits issued and the money collected as a result of issuance of such permit,
the number of police calls received and responded to as well as the type of
call and whether the call was inside or outside of the corporation limits. A
copy of these reports shall be presented to the Town Council at their monthly
meeting with the original of the records kept in the Town Marshal’s office
located in the Town Hall.
   (G)   All officers, while on duty, will be on road patrol, in the Town
Marshal’s office or engaged in other official capacities while on duty, except
for the consumption of meals or while on break. When any officer is on call,
rather than on duty, the officer may be at his or her home. Weekend duty is
considered on call duty and all weekend duty shall be covered by the Town
Marshal, Deputy or members of the Reserves, except in case of an emergency.
   (H)   The Town Council and the Clerk- Treasurer shall be notified in advance
of the taking of all vacations, leave and attendance at training sessions.
(`95 Code, § 23.08(L)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
FIREARM POLICY
§ 33.45 COMPREHENSIVENESS OF POLICY.
   Every police executive should promulgate a Police Use of Deadly Force Policy
that provides clear
guidelines for:
   (A)   When to shoot;
   (B)   The investigative procedure following a shooting;
   (C)   A Board of Review;
   (D)   Firearm equipment requirements; and
   (E)   Firearms training.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(1))
§ 33.46 LEGAL DISCLAIMER.
   This directive is for Departmental use only and does not apply in any
criminal or civil proceeding. The Department policy should not be construed as
a creation of higher legal standards of safety or care in an evidentiary sense
with respect to third party claims. Violations of this directive will only form
the basis for civil and criminal sanctions in a recognized judicial setting.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(2))
§ 33.47 DEFINING DEADLY FORCE.
   DEADLY FORCE, as used in this policy, is defined as that force which is
intended to cause death or grave injury or which creates some specified degree
of risk that a reasonable and prudent person would consider likely to cause
death or grave injury.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(3))
§ 33.48 VALUE OF HUMAN LIFE.
   The value of human life is immeasurable in our society. Police officers have
been delegated the awesome responsibility to protect life and property and
apprehend criminal offenders. The apprehension of criminal offenders and
protection must at all times be subservient to the protection of life. The
officer’s responsibility for protecting life must include his or her own.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(4))
§ 33.49 SHOOT TO STOP.
   Members shall not fire their weapons to kill, but rather to stop and
incapacitate an assailant from completing a potentially deadly act as described
in the following sections of this policy. For maximum
stopping effectiveness and minimal danger to innocent bystanders, the officer
should shoot at center body mass.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(5))
§ 33.50 DEFENSE OF LIFE.
   An officer may use deadly force to protect himself, herself or others from
what he or she reasonably believes to be an immediate threat of death or (near
death) critical bodily harm.
   (A)   When feasible the law enforcement officer shall give some warning to
the subject before using deadly force.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer making an arrest under an invalid warrant is
justified in using force as if the warrant was valid, unless he or she knows
that the warrant is invalid when advised by dispatch unknowingly.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer who has an arrested person in his or her
custody is justified in using the same force to prevent the escape of the
arrested person from his or her custody or recapture that he or she would be
justified in using if he or she was arresting that person.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(6)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.51 JUVENILES.
   No distinction shall be made relative to the age of the intended target of
deadly force. Self-defense and imminent threat of death or critical bodily harm
shall be the only policy guideline for employing deadly force.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(7))
§ 33.52 WARNING SHOTS.
   A police officer is not justified in using his or her firearm to fire a
warning shot.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(8))
§ 33.53 RISK TO INNOCENT BYSTANDERS.
   Officers are prohibited from discharging firearms when it appears likely
that an innocent person may be injured.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(9))
§ 33.54 SHOOTING AT OR FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   Officers should not discharge a firearm at or from a moving vehicle except
as the ultimate measure of self-defense or in the defense of another when the
suspect is using a vehicle as deadly force.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(10)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.55 SHOTS TO DESTROY ANIMALS.
   (A)   The killing of animals is justified:
      (1)   For self-defense;
      (2)   To prevent substantial harm to the officer or another; or
      (3)   When the animal is so badly injured that humanity requires its
relief from further suffering.
   (B)   A seriously wounded or injured animal may be destroyed only after all
attempts have been made to request assistance from the agency (humane society,
animal control, game warden and the like) responsible for the disposal of
animals. The destruction of vicious animals should be guided by the same rules
set forth for self-defense and the defense and safety of others.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(11))
§ 33.56 SAFE HANDLING OF FIREARMS.
   Except for general maintenance, storage or authorized training, officers
shall not draw or exhibit their firearm unless circumstances create strong
reasonable cause to believe that it may be necessary to
lawfully use the weapon in conformance with other sections of this policy.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(12))
§ 33.57 SECONDARY WEAPON.
   A secondary (back-up) on-duty handgun is authorized but only upon meeting
specific Department approval.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(13))
§ 33.58 OFF-DUTY WEAPON.
   Officers are strongly recommended but not mandated to carry a handgun while
off duty. An officer who elects not to carry a handgun while off duty shall not
be subjected to disciplinary action if an occasion should arise in which they
could have taken police action if they were armed: except, off duty officers
while operating a department vehicle shall be armed with an approved weapon.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(14)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.59 FIREARMS TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Department firearms training and certification program will be the
same as that deemed appropriate by the Town Marshal and with approval of Town
Council.
   (B)   All aspects of the firearms training program will include the officers
on-duty and secondary weapon.
   (C)   Firearms certification shall be required by the Town Marshal and with
the approval of Town Council, who will be apprized of each certification and
each certification result. In the event of any accidental discharge, the
officer involved must undergo an immediate recertification training prior to
returning to full duty.
   (D)   Should the member fail to meet certification standards, the Town
Marshal may determine if the authority to carry the weapon shall be immediately
revoked by the (certifying authority) and written notification of such
revocation shall be forwarded to the member’s commanding officer, training
unit, personnel unit and the Town Marshal. Officers who fail to achieve
certification after attending remedial firearms training will be placed on
suspension. After 30 days on suspension, if the officer has still failed to
achieve certification, his or her situation shall be reviewed by the Town
Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(15)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.60 FIREARM CERTIFICATION RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall maintain a permanent log for every officer
authorized to carry firearms. The log shall consist of the following minimum
information:
      (1)   Officer’s name;
      (2)   Certified on-duty weapon make, model, caliber and ammunition,
serial number of weapon, date, time, results of shooting test, weather
conditions, instructor name, curriculum and written test results;
      (3)   Certified off-duty weapon;
      (4)   Certified secondary weapon;
      (5)   Certified shotgun and/or rifle.
   (B)   The certification will be the same as that deemed appropriate by the
Town Marshal for his or her officers. An example of such qualification is as
follows:
      (1)   Practical pistol course (PPC) 48 rounds.
      (2)   Scoring for PPC:
         (a)   Possible       300;
         (b)   Qualified       210 to 224; 70% to 74%;
         (c)   Marksman       225 to 257; 75% to 85%;
         (d)   Sharpshooter       258 to 278; 86% to 92%;
         (e)   Expert          279 to 300; 93% to 100%.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(16)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.61 DEPARTMENTAL CONTROL OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   All on-duty officers shall be armed with a Department approved
firearm.
   (B)   A Department approved handgun (on-duty, off-duty, secondary) intended
for official use by any police officer must meet the following requirements:
      (1) The firearm must be inspected by the Town Marshal at the time of
certification;
      (2) The firearm must be registered with the Town Marshal by make, model
and serial number;
      (3)   The officer must meet certification requirements with each approved
weapon.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(17))
§ 33.62 DEPARTMENTAL INVESTIGATIVE PROCESSES.
   The following procedures will be used to investigate every incident of
firearms discharge by a Department member except for target practice, hunting,
ballistics examinations and incidents involving the destroying of an animal.
   (A)   Involved officer.
      (1)   Whenever a member discharges his or her firearm either accidentally
or officially, he or she shall immediately:
         (a)   Prepare a written report which the Town Marshal shall submit to
the Town Council;
         (b)   Determine the physical condition of any injured person and
render first aid when appropriate;
         (c)   Request necessary emergency medial aid;
         (d)   Notify the Town Marshal of the incident and location. The
officer will remain at the scene (unless himself or herself injured) until the
arrival of the appropriate investigators.
      (2)   However, if the circumstances are such that the continued presence
of the officer at the scene might cause a more hazardous situation to develop
(violent crowd), the ranking commanding officer at the scene shall have the
discretion to instruct the officer to respond to another, more appropriate
location.
      (3)   The officer will protect his or her weapon for examination and
submit the weapon to the appropriate investigator.
      (4)   The officer shall prepare a detailed report of the incident.
      (5)   The officer should not discuss the case with anyone except:
         (a)   Supervisory and internal investigative personnel;
         (b)   The officer’s privately retained attorney.
      (6)   The officer shall be available at all reasonable times for internal
affairs and other administrative interviews and statements regarding the case
and shall remain subject to recall to duty at any reasonable time.
   (B)   Criminal investigation. A Criminal Investigation Unit, coordinated by
the Town Marshal, will conduct a thorough investigation of every shooting by a
police officer which results in injury or death. The investigation shall
include the following minimum procedural standards:
      (1)   Proceed to the scene immediately upon notification;
      (2)   Secure the scene;
      (3)   Examine the weapon(s) of all officers present at the time shots
were fired, including secondary weapon(s) and any weapon(s) in police vehicles;
      (4)   Seize the weapon(s) which may have been fired;
      (5)   Seize samples of unspent ammunition;
      (6)   Separate, secure and interview all on- scene witnesses;
      (7)   Photograph and diagram scene;
      (8)   Secure all physical evidence. Have proper medical authorities
secure projectiles from the victim’s body;
      (9)   Secure telecommunications tapes;
      (10)   Obtain hospital, autopsy, lab and photographic reports;
      (11)   Before interviewing or requesting written statements of the
involved officer(s),the investigator shall advise the officer of his or her
rights in a criminal investigation;
      (12)   The Criminal Investigation Unit shall prepare a detailed report of
the investigation and submit same to the Chief and the prosecutor;
      (13)   All police actions shootings will be given to the County
Prosecutor to be given to the Grand Jury to determine if the shooting was
justified by state law;
      (14)   The Criminal Investigation Unit will consist of the County
Prosecutor’s Office, County Sheriff’s Department or the Indiana State Police
named by the Town Marshal.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(18)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.63 CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Department will respect the rights of the federal government to
conduct an independent investigation to identify any civil rights violations
which may have occurred.
   (B)   The Department will not order or request any of its members who may be
suspect to confer with federal investigators without the advice of counsel.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(19))
§ 33.64 ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE/DUTY.
   (A)   Any officer directly involved in a deadly force incident shall be
placed on administrative leave directly upon completion of his or her
preliminary report of the incident. This leave shall be without loss of pay or
benefits, pending the results of the investigation. The assignment to
administrative leave shall not be interpreted to imply or indicate that the
officer has acted improperly.
   (B)   While on administrative leave, the officer shall remain available at
all times for official departmental interviews and statements regarding the
shooting incident and shall be subject to recall to duty at any time.
   (C)   The officer shall not discuss the incident with anyone except the
state’s attorney, Departmental personnel assigned to the investigation, the
officer’s private-attorney, the officer’s psychologist, the officer’s chosen
clergy and the officer’s immediate family.
   (D)   Upon returning to duty, the officer may be assigned to administrative
duty for a period of time as deemed appropriate by the officer, his or her
psychologist and the Town Marshal and the Town of Shirley.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(20)) (Ord. 070916, passed 7-15-16)
§ 33.65 LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   The officer’s private attorney should be immediately notified of any
officer-involved shooting incident. The attorney should immediately proceed to
the scene of the shooting to meet with and establish a lawyer-client
relationship with that officer. The attorney should assist the officer in
drafting a formal statement as to the underlying facts and the reasonableness
as perceived by the officer justifying his or her use of deadly force. The
statement should be drafted to insure (if that be appropriate) that legal
sufficiency for such use of force is included in the officer’s statement. The
officer should also be advised of his or her legal and Departmental rights
regarding statements. The attorney should continue to assist the officer during
the post-shooting investigations as well as criminal, civil and federal civil
rights actions, including the initial interview conducted by federal agents in
a criminal civil rights action. Should the initial lawyer-client interview
indicate a violation of the State Penal Code, the attorney should represent the
officer accordingly.
   (B)   All communications between the officer and attorney are privileged and
must remain confidential and undisclosed unless by authority of the officer.
(`95 Code, § 23.09(21))
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Public records
   
34.02   Internal control standards
   
34.03   Materiality threshold
Purchasing
   
34.20   Agency
   
34.21   Publication of notices
   
34.22   Receiving offers
   
34.23   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
34.24   Discussion with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
34.25   Delay of opening of offer
   
34.26   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
34.27   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
34.28   Modification and termination of contracts
   
34.29   Small purchases
   
34.30   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
34.31   Prepayment of certain expenses
   
34.32   Use of credit cards
   
34.33   Nepotism in contracting
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
34.40   Definitions
   
34.41   Land
   
34.42   Machinery and equipment
   
34.43   Buildings
   
34.44   Improvements other than buildings
   
34.45   Recording and accounting
   
34.46   Safeguarding of assets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 1999, there shall not be any charge for copying,
certifying or facsimile transmission of public records as defined by I.C. 5-14-
3 when requested in accordance with the heretofore adopted request procedures.
   (B)   All the provisions of any ordinance heretofore adopted regarding
access to public records and any cost or procedure associated therewith shall
remain in full force and effect, other than the elimination of any cost to the
general public of copying, certifying or facsimile transmission of the
requested public records.
   (C)   In order to comply with I.C. 5-14-3 as admitted by the Indiana General
Assembly, this section shall retroactively take effect as of July 1, 1999, and
upon passage and due publication of the same.
(Ord. 080299, passed 8-2-99)
§ 34.02 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The town hereby adopts and incorporates the Internal Control
Policy attached to Ord. 060916 as Exhibit A by reference as if it were laid out
in full herein.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel
receive training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and
approved herein prior to June 30, 2016.
   (B)   The Uniform Internal Control Standards for Political Subdivisions
developed and promulgated by the State Board of Accounts (SBOA) are hereby
adopted by and for the town. Those Standards, as they now exist and may be
amended from time to time in the future, are hereby incorporated into this town
code by reference.
(Ord. 060916, passed 6-9-16; Res. 20170107B, passed 1-7-17)
§ 34.03 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of the
internal control procedures adopted by §
34.02.
(Ord. 060916, passed 6-9-16)
PURCHASING
§ 34.20 AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Shirley, Indiana, is designated as the
purchasing agency for the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Town Council and policies adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the Town of Shirley, Indiana. The Town Council shall act as
purchasing agents for that office or department.
(Ord. 080398, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.21 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter and the New Castle Journal-
Courier.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter and
the New Castle Journal-Courier. The purchasing agent shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least
one week apart. The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to
the date the proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications.
      (1)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Greenfield Daily Reporter and the New Castle
Journal-Courier.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notice. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.22 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers.
      (1)   The purchasing agency may receive electronic offers in response to
an invitation to bid, request for proposals or request for specifications.
      (2)   A purchasing agency may only receive an electronic offer if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correct and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which bids will be opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.23 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Clerk-Treasurer of Shirley,
or the purchasing agent who receives offers, shall retain all offers received
in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened
in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the
offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made
available for public inspection and copying after the time of the bid opening,
unless the bid opening is delayed, as authorized in this subchapter or any
other statute or ordinance.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.24 DISCUSSION WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with parties who are submitting
proposals. Final offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit
proposals and are determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for
a contract award.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.25 DELAY OF OPENING OF OFFER.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that is in the town’s
best interest, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.26 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an
offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If evidence of financial
responsibility is required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence
that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is required, it may not
exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.27 USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   If the Town Council determines that it is either not practicable or not
advantageous to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive
bidding, they shall authorize the appropriate purchasing agent to receive
proposals.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.28 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. Any purchasing agent for the town may include
provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following
provisions for price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contacting parties may mutually agree upon.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the
purchasing agent, or the Town Council, to order changes in the work within the
scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of
performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.29 SMALL PURCHASES.
   This section applies to all purchases which are defined as small purchases
under I.C. 5-22-8-2.
   (A)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
   (B)   In the event the purchase is between $5,000 and $25,000, the
purchasing agent making the purchase shall receive prices either by phone, in
writing or in person from at least two suppliers.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall keep a file for purchases made under this
section with the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of each supplier who provided a
price;
      (2)   The price provided by each supplier;
      (3)   The supplier chosen and the reason for the choice if the supplier
did not provide the lowest price;
      (4)   The reasons why less than two suppliers were not contacted.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.30 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
township purchases and shall be purchased unless the township determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 080398A, passed 8-3-98)
§ 34.31 PREPAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to pre-pay the following lawful
expenses subject to the submission of a fully itemized claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office prior to said pre-payment and the submission of said claim
for review allowance at the next regular or special meeting of the Town Council
following the pre-approved payment of said expense:
   (A)   Insurance premiums;
   (B)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
   (C)   Maintenance or service agreements;
   (D)   Leases or rental agreements;
   (E)   Payroll;
   (F)   State, Federal or county taxes;
   (G)   License fees or permit fees;
   (H)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
   (I)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government or an agency or political subdivision of the United States
Government;
   (J)   Federal grant programs if advanced funding is not prohibited and the
contracting party provided sufficient security for the amount advanced; and
   (K)   Principal and interest payments on bonds.
(Ord. 03-05-07, 3-5-07; Ord. 070717, passed 7-7-17)
§ 34.32 USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   The Town Council has determined that the following criteria must be
satisfied in order to use the governmental credit cards.
   (A)   Any authorized credit card use is established herein in this section.
   (B)   The issuance and use of any credit card shall be handled by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The purposes for which these credit cards are to be used are for
hardware, office supplies and other supplies, and for travel purposes approved
by the town. A list, by position, of those people authorized to use the credit
cards is attached to Res. 060218A as Exhibit A.
   (D)   When the purpose for which the credit card has been issued has been
accomplished, the card shall be returned to the responsible person, namely, the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town, or the persons listed in Exhibit A of Res.
060218A, all designated officials or employees should maintain an accounting
system or log, which would include the names of the individuals requesting
usage of the cards, their position, estimated amounts to be charged, fund and
account numbers to be charged, date the card is issued and returned, etc.
   (E)   In no way shall the cards be used to by-pass the accounting system.
All purchase orders issued shall be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town
with sufficient means to encumber and track appropriations to provide the town
and any other officials with timely and accurate accounting information and
monitoring of the accounting system.
   (F)   The town has the following credit card users: Clerk-Treasurer,
Maintenance Supervisor, and Town Marshal. They are authorized to use the cards
with the following limits:
      (1)   Clerk-Treasurer $6,000;
      (2)   Maintenance Supervisor $1,500; and
      (3)   Town Marshall $4,500.
   (G)   The town's intent is to not use the credit card as a basis to take
loans for purposes of paying invoices but shall only be used for emergency
items or for travel to a conference as those approved by the Town Council.
   (H)   No payments should be made on the basis of a statement or a credit
card slip only. Supporting documentation such as receipts or paid bills must be
provided to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (I)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to the late filing or furnishing
of documentation by an officer or an employee shall be the responsibility of
that officer or employee.
   (J)   This section authorizes the payment of an annual fee on the credit
card if necessary.
(Res. 060218A, passed 7-7-18)
§ 34.33 NEPOTISM IN CONTRACTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Means:
         (a)   The Mayor.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer.
         (c)   A member of the Town Council.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse.
         (b)   A parent or stepparent.
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including an adopted child or stepchild.
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister, including a
brother or sister by half blood.
         (e)   A niece or nephew.
         (f)   An aunt or uncle.
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Contracting policy.
      (1)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with the
following only if the requirements of this section are satisfied and the
elected official does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4.
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official.
      (2)   The town may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (B)(1) if all of the
following are satisfied:
         (a)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by the Town
Council in a public meeting prior to final action on the contract or purchase;
and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the Town
Council takes final action on the contract or purchase.
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the town:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The town satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
         (d)   The elected official complies with the disclosure provisions of
I.C. 35-44.1-1-4, if applicable.
      (3)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the town
begins.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this policy. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive officer
not later than December 31 of each year.
      (2)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
Accounts under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the executive officer
stating whether the town has implemented a policy under I.C. 36-1-21.
(Res. 11-04-2019, passed 11-4-19; Res. 01-13- 2020, passed 1-13-20)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 34.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS.  Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods are considered CAPITAL OUTLAYS. This includes costs
of acquiring land or structures, construction or improvement of buildings,
structures or other fixed assets, and equipment purchases having an appreciable
and calculable period of usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the
acquisition of or addition to the government’s general fixed assets.
   FIXED ASSETS.  Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent are FIXED ASSETS.
These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary course of business. This
road group is usually separated into classes according to the physical
characteristics of the items (such as land, buildings, improvements other than
buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and fixtures).
   TANGIBLE ASSETS.  An asset that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses is referred to as a TANGIBLE ASSET.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.41 LAND.
   (A)   The town will capitalize all land purchased, regardless of cost.
   (B)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs,
parking meters, street signs and storm water collection.
   (C)   The original cost of land shall include the full value given to the
seller including relocating costs, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work), appraisals and negotiation fees, surveying and any
other costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose. Also included are
contractors and/or town personnel (salary and benefits) used to demolish
buildings, excavation, clean up, and/or inspection.
   (D)   The town shall record donated land at fair market value plus all
associated costs on the date of the land transfer.
   (E)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will adhere to the
source funding policies and procedures.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.42 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The definition of MACHINERY and EQUIPMENT is an apparatus, tool or
conglomerate of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not be a
part of the basic structure or building.
   (B)   The town shall capitalize and tag items with an individual value equal
to or greater than $2,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one
unit with a total value greater than $2,000 will be one unit.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up that makes such equipment
operable for its intended purpose shall be capitalized.
   (D)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment shall
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Costs for improvements and renovations exceed $2,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
   (E)   Purchases made using federal or state funding shall follow the source
funding policies and procedures.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.43 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A department shall capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories, including the cost of
attachments. Examples of attachments are heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting,
or sprinkler systems, or any part of the basic building. The town will include
the cost of items designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
   (B)   A new building shall be capitalized only if it meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $100,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Any department, board or commission improving or renovating an
existing building shall capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $100,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years;
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value; and
      (4)   Repairs and rehabilitation of less than $100,000 shall be expenses.
   (D)   Capital building costs shall include land preparation, architectural
and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, attorney and financing costs (during
construction), accounting costs, and any costs directly attributable to the
construction of a building.
   (E)   A department shall record donated buildings at fair market value
including associated costs on the date of transfer.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding shall adhere to the
source funding policies and procedures.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.44 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The definition of this group includes improvements to land which are
attached or not easily removed and which have a life expectancy of greater than
two years. Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters, underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
   (B)   Road or drives on town-owned land that provide support to town
facilities are assets. Sidewalks installed on town-owned land for use by the
public and for the support of the town facility are capital assets.
   (C)   The town shall capitalize repairs or renovations to improvements only
if it meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $35,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (D)   A department shall capitalize improvements or renovations to existing
improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $35,000;
      (2)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (E)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings shall be
recorded at fair market value plus all associated costs on the date of
transfer.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding shall follow the source
funding policies and the aforementioned procedures.
   (G)   Historical cost. The cash equivalent price exchange for goods or
services at the date of acquisition is the historical cost. Land, buildings,
equipment, and most inventories are common examples of items recognized under
the historical cost attribute.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.45 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   All town departments excluding the Utility Department shall classify
capital expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the
expenditure was made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the town. The
cost of capital expenditures includes all expenditures necessary to place the
asset into position and available for use. For purposes of recording fixed
assets of the town and its departments, the valuation of assets shall be based
on historical cost or, where the historical cost is indeterminable, by
estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   In addition, a Fixed Asset Register shall be maintained in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer that will provide a detailed record of the capital
assets and fixed assets of the governmental unit. The Clerk-Treasurer or his or
her designee shall serve as the Fixed Asset Coordinator for the town.
   (C)   All departments of the town except the Utility Department shall
designate at least one employee to monitor and manage the fixed assets of each
department. This designee shall ensure that policies and procedures exist
within each department for the safeguarding and accounting of assets. These
responsibilities shall include:
      (1)   Proper identification of all assets;
      (2)   Proper reporting of assets on the approved asset inventory report;
      (3)   Utilization of the town approved asset tags on all equipment and
machinery; and
      (4)   A minimum of semi-annual reconciliation of assets.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
§ 34.46 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   Accounting controls shall be designated and implemented to provide
reasonable assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town shall be in accordance with the
Town Council’s authorization as documented by this division.
   (B)   Asset transactions of the town shall be recorded to permit the proper
preparation of financial statements to comply with the generally accepted
accounting principles.
(Ord. 10-05-0_, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Proclamation by President of Town Council
   
35.03   Imposition of curfew
   
35.04   Additional regulations
   
35.05   Emergency powers
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.  Defined to be:
      (1)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
(`95 Code, § 80.07(A))
§ 35.02 PROCLAMATION BY PRESIDENT OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   When in the judgment of the President of the Town Council a civil emergency
as defined herein is deemed to exist, he or she shall forthwith proclaim in
writing the existence of same. In case of the absence of the President of the
Town Council from the town, the Council designee shall be authorized to act in
his or her stead.
(`95 Code, § 80.07(B))
§ 35.03 IMPOSITION OF CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the President of Town Council, he
or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
town or to the town as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare.
(`95 Code, § 80.07(C))
§ 35.04 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the President of the Town Council
may also in the interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the
following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   (B)   Order the closing of all taverns;
   (C)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
   (G)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(`95 Code, § 80.08(D)) (Am. Ord. 121813B, passed 12-18-13)
§ 35.05 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   During the period of a declared state of emergency, the President of the
Town Council shall have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages
in a public street or place which is publicly owned or in any motor vehicle
driven or parked thereon which is within a duly assigned restricted area.
   (B)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
   (C)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess or use any
type of Molotov cocktail, gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
   (D)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
President of the Town Council as a restricted area unless in the performance of
official duties or with written permission from the President of the Town
Council or his or her duly designated representative or such person shall prove
residence therein.
(`95 Code, § 80.07(E))
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Ordinance Violations Bureau established
   
36.02   Town Fine Schedule
§ 36.01 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The members of the Town Council of Shirley list violations which are
subject to the admission of violations before the Violations Clerk and the
amount of the civil penalty to be assessed to each violator who enters an
admission to a violation, these violations and their schedules fines are as
determined from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   A person charged with a violation under this section is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless that person waives that right
to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk;
upon such an admission of the violation, the Violations Clerk-Treasurer shall
assess and receive from the violator the amount prescribed above.
   (C)   A person charged with a violation of any ordinance mentioned herein
wanting to exercise his or her right to trial, the person shall appear before
the Violations Clerk and deny the violation and enter a written denial with the
Clerk within 30 days of the date of the violation.
   (D)   Any person having been charged with violations of the scheduled
ordinances does the following:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this section;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of the violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter; the Clerk
shall report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violations cases for the municipal corporation.
   (E)   An ordinance violation admitted does not constitute a judgment for the
purposes of I.C. 33-19-5 and an ordinance violation costs fee may not be
collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-19-5.
   (F)   None of the penalties for the aforementioned violations are in excess
of $100 pursuant to I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person shall be responsible
for maintaining the ordinance violations period of the fourth Wednesday of each
month or the next subsequent Wednesday if a holiday falls when the office is
closed or in situations when the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to have the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer open or as the Clerk-Treasurer may direct.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Marshal are responsible for providing
tickets to effectively implement operation of the Violations Bureau.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for depositing the fine
monies in the General Fund pursuant to Indiana law.
(Ord. 070701, passed 7-7-01)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 33 was recodified by P.L. 98-2004, and I.C. 33-6-3-1 et seq. and
33-19-5 were repealed by Section 164 of P.L. 98-2004.
§ 36.02 TOWN FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following fines are payable through the Ordinance Violations Clerk:
Violation Fine
Violation     Fine
Chapter 50:   Subject to the provisions in §
Garbage and   10.99
refuse
§            Subject to the provisions in §
51.99: Water  10.99
service
Chapter 52:   $2,500
Sewer service
Chapter 70:   Subject to the provisions in §
Traffic Code  70.99
Chapter 71:   Subject to the provisions in §
Traffic       70.99
regulations
Chapter 72:   Subject to the provisions in §
Parking       70.99
Chapter 73:   Subject to the provisions in §
Bicycle       70.99
Chapter 74:   Subject to the provisions in §
Speed limits  70.99
Chapter 75:   Subject to the provisions in §
Parking       70.99
Chapter 90:   Subject to the provisions in §
Trees and     10.99
shrubs
Chapter 92:
Unwholesome   Subject to the provisions in §
environmental 10.99
conditions
Chapter 93:   Subject to the provisions in §
Animals       10.99, plus restitution and attorney’s fees if convicted
§§
94.01—      Subject to the provisions in §
94.09:        10.99
Nuisance:
weeds
§§          Subject to the provisions in §
94.20—      10.99
94.25: Noise
Chapter 95:   Subject to the provisions in §
Streets and   10.99 and subject to attorney’s fees if convicted of encroachment
sidewalks
Chapter 110:
Business      Subject to the provisions in §
licensing and 10.99
regulations
Chapter 113:  Subject to the provisions in §
Alcoholic     10.99
beverages
Chapter 130:  Subject to the provisions in §
General       10.99
offenses
 
(Ord. 070715, passed 7-7-15)
CHAPTER 37: BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
Section
   
37.01   Parks Committee monthly reports
   
37.02   Storm Water Board established
   
37.03   Department of Storm Water Management established
§ 37.01 PARKS COMMITTEE MONTHLY REPORTS.
   (A)   The Town of Shirley Parks Committee and its athletic programs are
voluntary groups.
   (B)   The Parks Committee and its athletic program and any other committee
deemed necessary by the Town Council are responsible to report any and all
activities, receipts, and disbursements monthly.
(Ord. 10- -, passed - -)
§ 37.02 STORM WATER BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is necessary for the protection of the public health and welfare of
the town’s inhabitants to form a Storm Water Board.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3, it is hereby determined that the Town
Council members shall serve and provide as the Board for control of its
municipality-owned storm water utility.
(Ord. 050211, passed 5-2-11)
§ 37.03 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Establishment. I.C. 8-1.5-5 is hereby adopted by the Town Council so
as to make that chapter and any and all amendments thereto effective and
operative in the town.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, a Department of Storm Water Management
shall be and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the collection,
disposal and drainage of storm surface water in the town.
   (B)   Board of Directors.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, the Department of Storm Water Management
shall be controlled by a Board of Directors which shall consist of three
Directors appointed by the Town Council with no more than two of which may be
of the same political party.
      (2)   The initial terms of the first Directors appointed pursuant to this
division (B) shall be staggered so that one Director shall have a one-year
term; one Director shall have a two-year term; and one Director shall have a
three-year term; and thereafter, the terms of all Directors shall be for a
period of three years and all initial terms shall begin on the first of the
month following the adoption of this section.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, there is hereby created a special taxing
district which shall include all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
      (4)   The Board of Directors shall prepare a budget for the operation of
the Department of an annual basis which budget shall be subject to approval by
the Town Council and any issuance of bonds or other methods for making capital
improvements shall be approved by the Town Council as provided by law.
(Ord. 12-30-09, passed 12-30-09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
51.   WATER SERVICE
   
52.   SEWER SERVICE
   
APPENDIX: HOOK-UP AND SEWER CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE
   
53.   UTILITY BILLING PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
Regulations
   
50.20   Property to be kept free from rubbish or refuse
   
50.21   Throwing refuse or rubbish on streets, alleys or sidewalks
   
50.22   Disposal of dead carcasses
   
50.23   Unsanitary privies
   
50.24   Burning of trash, refuse and other material
   
50.25   Transportation and disposal of waste material
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Food waste and refuse of a similar nature.
   WASTE MATERIALS. All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but
not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, household wastes, industrial and
construction wastes and all material disposable at waste disposal and transfer
stations and locations in the town.
(`95 Code, § 62.01)
REGULATIONS
§ 50.20 PROPERTY TO BE KEPT FREE FROM RUBBISH OR REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying, or having the
use and control of, any lot or building in the town to throw or deposit or
permit to remain upon, in or about the lot or building any kind of refuse or
rubbish, manure or other unwholesome thing or material.
   (B)   Any person owning any lot or building or having the use and control
thereof, within the limits of the corporation, shall be required to keep the
lot or building, and everything pertaining thereto, in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (C)   No person shall store, place or dispose on his or her lot or building
or the lot or building of another or permit to accumulate on his or her lot or
building any solid waste in such a manner whereby it will become a rodent or
insect harborage or breeding place or create a health menace and unsanitary
condition or nuisance.
   (D)   On 24-hours notice given by the Marshal or other official designated
by the Town Council, any person owning or occupying, or having the use and
control of, any lot or building on which refuse or rubbish, manure, solid waste
or other unwholesome material has accumulated shall be required to remove it
immediately.
(`95 Code, § 62.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of the disposal of wastes, see I.C.
    36-9-6-19
§ 50.21 THROWING REFUSE OR RUBBISH ON STREETS, ALLEYS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to remain any
refuse or rubbish, manure or other unwholesome thing or material in or upon any
of the streets, alleys or other public property within the town.
(`95 Code, § 62.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.22 DISPOSAL OF DEAD CARCASSES.
   (A)   All dead carcasses found within the town shall be removed by the owner
or by the persons responsible for the existence of such carcasses.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal, or other official designated
by the Town Council, to notify the owner or other responsible person and to
order the removal of the carcass.
      (2)   If the owner or other person responsible shall refuse to comply
with the order then the carcass shall be removed at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   If the owner of any carcass found in the town is not known then it
shall be the duty of the Marshal or other official designated by the Town
Council to remove and dispose of it.
(`95 Code, § 62.04)
§ 50.23 UNSANITARY PRIVIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any human excrement
on any premises in an unsanitary manner or to erect, construct, maintain or
permit to remain upon any premises privies, vaults, cesspools, pits or like
places which are unsanitary or which are foul or malodorous, and these
conditions constitute a public nuisance.
(`95 Code, § 62.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.24 BURNING OF TRASH, REFUSE AND OTHER MATERIAL.
   (A)   Burning material within the town limits.
      (1)   No person shall burn garbage within the corporate limits of the
town.
      (2)   No person shall burn leaves, brush or weeds upon the public rights-
of-way, streets, highways or alleys in the town.
(`95 Code, § 62.10)
   (B)   Garbage placed outdoors for collection. Garbage placed outdoors for
collection or disposal shall be kept in proper garbage containers of metal or
other suitable material covered with protective lids. (`95 Code, § 62.11)
   (C)   Approval needed to burn any material. No person shall, at any time or
place, burn outdoors any trash, garbage, refuse or other matter, except leaves
and weeds and for cooking as provided in division (E) of this section, unless
the person has obtained approval for burning from the office of Air Management
of the State of Indiana and then only in accordance with the rules, regulations
and conditions imposed by this Agency for such burning.
(`95 Code, § 62.12)
   (D)   Residential open burning policy. It is the policy of the Town Council
that Indiana Rule (326 I.A.C. 4-1) controls residential open burning. An
explanation of this policy is as follows.
      (1)   The nature and quantity of smoke generated by burning will vary
with the material burned and the conditions under which it is burned. However
any smoke will contain pollutants, some of which are toxic and harmful to
health. Thus it is the position of the Office of Air Management that any
burning that does not serve a useful function, or for which alternatives are
available, should be discouraged. It is recognized that burning traditionally
has been a quick and cheap means of disposal of unwanted material. In most
instances, given the environmental and health impacts, burning can no longer be
justified.
      (2)   Indiana has a rule (326 I.A.C. 4-1) with state-wide applicability
that severely restricts uncontrolled (open) burning of waste. As it applies to
residences (four or fewer units) it requires that:
         (a)   Only wood products be burned. You may burn limbs, leaves, paper
and untreated and uncoated lumber; (Do not burn plastics, garbage or tires.)
         (b)   The burning take place in a noncombustible container
sufficiently vented to induce adequate primary combustion air. It must have
enclosed sides, a bottom and a mesh covering with openings no larger than inch
square;
         (c)   No burning take place when meteorological conditions are
unfavorable such as temperature inversions, high winds or air stagnations;
         (d)   If the fire creates a nuisance or a fire hazard it shall be
extinguished;
         (e)   All burning occur during daylight hours. Fires shall be
replenished in such a manner that the material will be consumed by sunset;
         (f)   Fires be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   Burning is not permitted in apartment home complexes or mobile home
parks. You should check with your local government officials to determine if
more restrictive local rules apply. Any such rule must be equal or more
restrictive than the state rule.
      (4)   If you have any questions as to what is allowed, please call the
Office of Air Management at 317-232-8470. If you have questions on how to
obtain a variance from this rule contact:
   Office of Air Management
   P.O. Box 6015
   Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6015
   Phone 317-232-8220
(`95 Code, § 62.13)
   (E)   Outdoor cooking. This section shall not prohibit the use of outdoor
cooking grills and small attended camp fires for the preparation of food for
consumption on the premises, except as prohibited herein.
(`95 Code, § 62.14)
§ 50.25 TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE MATERIAL.
   (A)   Requirements for vehicles.
      (1)   No vehicle or motor vehicle shall be used to transport waste
materials in the town unless the waste materials are entirely enclosed within
vehicles having enclosed bodies on all sides with watertight beds.
      (2)   Vehicles meeting these requirements except that an opening remains
at the top side of the vehicle may not transport waste materials without being
covered securely with a solid waterproof cover over the top opening to screen
the waste material from view and to hold and secure the waste material in the
vehicle.
      (3)   Waste materials in paper, cloth or plastic bags or uncovered
barrels or cans or similar containers must also be so covered.
(`95 Code, § 62.20)
   (B)   Exception for private automobiles. Division (A) of this section shall
not prevent any person from transporting waste material in a private automobile
from his or her own household to or through the town; however, waste materials
must be transported entirely within the confines of the enclosed vehicle and
meet the requirements of division (A) of this section if such load is loose or
leaks.
(`95 Code, § 62.21)
   (C)   Waste disposal or transfer stations. Vehicles and motor vehicles
transporting waste material to a waste disposal or transfer station or location
in violation of division (A) of this section shall not be permitted to remain
on or unload at any waste disposal or transfer station or location in the town,
and the owner or person holding under the owner, agent, employee or other
person responsible for the premises of any town waste disposal or transfer
station or location shall not permit a vehicle in violation of division (A) of
this section to remain or unload.
(`95 Code, § 62.22)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Waterworks existence, extensions and definitions
   
51.02   Administration
   
51.03   Service installation specifications and classes of service
   
51.04   Conditions for securing service
   
51.05   Service location
   
51.06   Application for taps
   
51.07   Temporary service
   
51.08   Meter installations
   
51.09   Dead meters and remote meters
   
51.10   Material specifications
   
51.11   Special water services
   
51.12   Leaks
   
51.13   Termination of service
   
51.14    General rules and regulations
   
51.15   Complaints
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATERWORKS EXISTENCE, EXTENSIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. That the town, being the owner of and engaged in operating
an unencumbered waterworks system supplying the town and its inhabitants with
water for public and domestic use, may provide for certain needed extension,
additions and improvements to such waterworks and the payment for such
extensions, additions and improvements from the revenues and receipts for such
waterworks pursuant to and in the manner prescribed in I.C. Chapter 36, and 170
IAC 6-1, et seq., and all facts mandatory thereof or supplemental thereto
(sometimes hereinafter referred to as the “Act”).
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms WATERWORKS,
WATER SYSTEM, SYSTEM and WATERWORKS SYSTEM where used in this chapter shall be
construed to mean and include the existing waterworks system owned by the town
and all extensions, additions and improvements thereto and replacement thereof
now or subsequently constructed or acquired. The term WELL means any
underground source of water used for any purpose including but not limited to
human consumption, human hygiene, for use in industrial or manufacturing
processes, or for use in a commercial enterprise.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessor,
lessee, tenant, or occupant, of any grounds, premises, or property within the
corporate limits of the Town of Shirley, Indiana, to use an existing well to
supply water for human consumption, human hygiene, for use in industrial or
manufacturing processes, for use in a commercial enterprise, or to drill any
new well for the purpose of supplying water for use in industrial or
manufacturing processes, for human consumption, human hygiene, for use in a
commercial enterprise, 90 days after notice of completion of the projected
water delivery system to be installed in Shirley, Indiana, is received by said
owner, lessor, lessee or tenant, or occupant of any grounds, premises, or
property within the corporate limits of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
(Ord. 6-21-85, passed 6-21-85)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.02 ADMINISTRATION.
    The waterworks will be administered by the Town Council. It shall adopt
rules and regulations governing the appointment of all employees and shall
select a Superintendent who shall have executive charge of the waterworks.
§ 51.03 SERVICE INSTALLATION SPECIFICATIONS AND CLASSES OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Commercial Service is a connection which serves an apartment house
where there are three or more families residing or a store, factory or
institution which requires large quantities of water. The sizes of these
services shall be determined by consultation with the Water Department. The
Water Department may require, at its discretion, that separate customers in
apartment houses or commercial buildings with three or less consumer quarters
or family units, and in double houses, duplex flats or trailer camps be metered
separately in cases where the one meter is presently installed and consumption
is less than combined minimums for all customers. Until such time as customer
and/or property owner re-alights piping at his or her expense to facilitate
installation of separate meters, the monthly billing shall be not less than
combined minimums of all separate customer units served.
   (B)   Residence Service is a connection, which serves a residence wherein
not more than two families reside. The size of these services shall be not
smaller than 5/8 inch nor larger than one 1 inch inside diameter of pipe.
   (C)   A service shall consist of : One corporation cock, 3/4 inch in size
for single-family residences and of a size as specified by Utility
Superintendent for apartments or commercial consumers, threaded into the water
main. Copper pipe or plastic P.V.C. Spec. PE 3306 connected to the corporation
cock, and extending to not less than one foot inside the property line.
   (D)   Water shall be turned off (or on) at meter only by a Water Department
employee. All service pipes installed after February 30, 2002, must have a
shutoff within the consumer premises for emergency shut-off’s and making of
repairs.
   (E)   In no case shall service pipes be allowed to run across from one lot
to another, but each lot shall be served by a service directly from the
distribution main serving said premises.
   (F)   All persons are forbidden to cover up or in any way interfere with any
curb-box, valve pit, valve box or hydrant. In the case of any automobile or
vehicular accident involving the breaking or disconnection of a fire hydrant,
the car owner involved shall pay for the repair of same.
   (G)   Any consumers who have an existing line shall pay only costs
associated with the Town Water Utility inspection of said line as determined by
the Waterworks Superintendent.
   (H)   All old water lines shall be closed and properly capped after service
has been discontinued by the Superintendent of the Waterworks. Upon closure or
discontinued use, the consumer shall repay all existing fees associated with
any retapping into existing lines.
§ 51.04 CONDITIONS FOR SECURING SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon application from one or more persons, the Utility will make a
survey of the territory to be served, and prepare an estimate of the costs of
constructing an extension to serve this territory. From this estimate, the
Utility will calculate the amount of main extension deposit, if any, to be made
by the applicant, in the following manner:
   Estimated cost of construction      $___
   Monthly guaranteed minimum bill   $___
   Amount of main extension deposit   $___
   (B)   In the monthly guaranteed minimum bill for three years the estimated
cost of construction, no deposit by the applicant will be necessary.
   (C)   If the applicant desires, the deposit calculated as above, may be paid
as a special guaranteed monthly minimum, and at the expiration of the three-
year period the contract shall revert to the established minimum.
   (D)   After the deposits are made and contracts signed, the Utility will
begin construction of the main.
§ 51.05 SERVICE LOCATION.
   (A)   Service shall be run from the main to a point just inside the property
line where a meter pit will be installed by the Utility.
   (B)   In the meter pit, the Utility shall install an approved water meter
setting. All piping from this setting shall be installed by a consumer. The
maintenance of the line from curb cock is the responsibility of the consumer.
§ 51.06 APPLICATION FOR TAPS.
   (A)   All taps for water service in the mains of the waterworks system shall
be made under the direct authority and supervision of the Waterworks
Superintendent. Applications for new water service shall be made to the Office
Manager of the Utility at least ten days in advance of the time service is
desired.
    (B)   When there is any change in consumer, tenant or owner of any premises
connected to the water system the office of the Utility shall be notified at
once, and any new consumer shall make application for service immediately.
   (C)   When any consumer fails to notify the Utility of a change in ownership
or occupancy of any premises, such consumer shall continue to be liable to the
Utility for all charges accruing until such time as the Utility is notified or
the Utility cancels the consumer’s contract; this clause shall not preclude the
Utility from also demanding from the new consumer, the payment of all or any
such charges which shall be unpaid at the time of the demand that accrued since
the last reading of the meter.
   (D)   Deposit. Before service shall be granted to any applicant a deposit in
an amount equal to a three months usage being estimated by the water works
Superintendent must be paid at the office of the Utility. Deposits may be
required of commercial or industrial water consumers, the amount of deposit to
be determined by the Town Council of the Town of Shirley. The maximum deposit
required of any
domestic consumer shall not exceed three times the estimated average monthly
bill for water service, with the total sum not to exceed $70.
   (E)   When service has been temporarily shut off for reason of non-payment,
the Water Utility shall require a sum equal of $15, from the consumer before
re-opening the service.
§ 51.07 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   The Utility shall have sole discretion in providing temporary service and is
herewith authorized to demand payment in advance for the amount of estimated
water consumption.
§ 51.08 METER INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   All one inch or less service lines and meters shall be installed by
the utility. All service lines and meters over one inch in size may be
installed by the utility if requested by the utility customer. The Town Council
shall establish a schedule of connection fees for said installations, subject
to the prior approval of the Town Council from time to time and said schedule
shall be available to the general public at the office of the Town Council.
   (B)   Consumers shall agree to permit and shall permit the Utility to remove
meters from time to time as the Utility deems necessary, at no charge to
consumer.
   (C)   Old meter installations may be changed or relocated by agreement
between the Utility and the consumer on the cost, which said consumer shall pay
promptly.
   (D)   Repair costs for damage resulting from hot water or heat (to meters)
will be paid by the consumer.
   (E)   The Utility may require the consumer to place check valves or other
protective devices in the line to prevent damage to meter or contamination to
the public water system.
   (F)   Right of inspection. The authorized representatives of the Utility
have the right to enter upon the premises at any reasonable time for the
purpose of inspecting or other duties in connection with the operation of the
Utility.
§ 51.09 DEAD METERS AND REMOTE METERS.
   When a meter fails to register for any reason, charges for that period shall
be based upon the average consumption for the past six months.
§ 51.10 MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Material. Material for all services shall be of copper, type K or
plastic pipe P.V.C. Spec. PE 3306, shall be seamless tubing, and have a wall
thickness of not less than .064 inch.
   (B)   Connections. No soft soldered connections will be permitted. Copper
pipes may be of approved threaded solderless, gasketless connections or may be
brazed with phosphorized copper or silver copper brazing rod, which shall have
a melting point of not less than one thousand, one hundred degrees Fahrenheit.
All connections shall be made in conformance with current IDEM Standards.
   (C)   Connections/fittings. All connections and fittings shall be in
conformance with the American Water Works Standard or equal.
   (D)   Mains. All mains shall be constructed pursuant to the specifications
of the Town Council. This provision is for the purpose of providing for future
extensions of service following annexations.
   (E)   Hydrant location. The Town Council reserves the right to stipulate
hydrant locations, size, minimum specifications and the like, in all housing
developments located in the corporate limits.
§ 51.11 SPECIAL WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   Hydrants. An employee of the Utility must operate hydrants when
service is desired from a hydrant by a Consumer. The costs of this service will
include a charge for this labor, at current utility labor cost. Only Utility
employees, members of the Fire and Street Departments may open hydrants.
   (B)   Fire protection sprinkler service. Service for fire protection systems
will be placed to the property line nearest the main. The Consumer will be
charged with the cost of making the connection and placing the service,
including the cost of valves.
§ 51.12 LEAKS.
   The Consumer shall be responsible for the prompt repair of all leaks
occurring on privately owned property regardless of meter location. Service may
be discontinued when leaks occurring on privately owned property are not
repaired after the Consumer has been duly notified of said leak by the Utility.
Service may be discontinued at any time when the nature of the leak is such as
to create a health hazard or a traffic hazard or when, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, it adversely affects the regular operation of the system.
§ 51.13 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Water service to any consumer may be discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   Wasting or improper use during a declared water emergency after same
has been called to the consumer’s attention.
   (B)   Refusal to pay bills within prescribed time.
   (C)   Interfering with or destroying any water appurtenances or appliances
belonging to the town.
   (D)   Failure to or refusal to comply with General Rules and Regulations.
   (E)   Repairs.
§ 51.14 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Water service supplied by the town is for the use of the consumer at
the location given and the consumer agrees not to resell service, nor furnish
service to others. This will not, however, prevent a tenant from assuming the
obligation of payment.
   (B)   All consumers before piping a place for water, shall obtain from the
office of the Utility the location of meter and service and other equipment
necessary for service.
   (C)   Written application shall be made for each service which shall be for
not less than one year. Unusual conditions shall be covered by special
contracts. Services of all classes shall be by meter, except temporary
contracts. Services of all classes shall be by meter, except temporary services
(contractors, fairs and the like, of short duration) and Fire Service.
   (D)   The Utility will place the service to the property line nearest the
main, placing such valves as are necessary for the control of the service. The
consumer will be charged with the cost of making the connection and placing the
service. Fire services are for connection to sprinkler system and fire
protection systems, and using this connection for any other purpose is
prohibited. When it is found that consumer is using water from fire service for
any other purpose than fire protection, the service shall be discontinued.
Before renewing the service, a meter of type approved for this service by the
Underwriter, shall be placed on the service, and all costs, of meter and
placing, shall be paid by consumer.
   (E)   The Utility will bring services to the property line and place a meter
pit. The Utility will place meter setting at the property line, and the
consumer will be charged with the cost of this setting. The meter is furnished
by the Utility.
   (F)   Each property or separate location must have a separate service.
Service is given for the use of the applicant and no consumer shall be
permitted to furnish others, or other premises or property with water service.
   (G)   (1)   Each consumer must have a shut off installed in such manner that
the consumer may turn water off and on without using meter pit.
      (2)   If the meter is in the building, a shut off must be installed ahead
of the meter.
   (H)   (1)   Any change in service meter or connections after once installed,
shall be paid for by the consumer, except that the Utility will make such
changes as necessary to give required service.
      (2)   Any alteration in any building, equipment, or plumbing which makes
any change in meter location or connection must be approved by the Utility.
   (I)   Any willful damage to meter pit, and/or meter cover, meter or meter
setting will be paid for by the consumer.
   (J)   Meters are the property of the Utility and no person but an authorized
representative of the Utility may move, alter, connect, disconnect, tamper with
or change in any way.
   (K)   (1)   When it is necessary to place a meter in a building, the
location will be selected by the Utility and will be as close as possible to
the water main.
      (2)   Meters will not be placed in closets, bathrooms, bedrooms, coal
bins, attics, behind furnaces, or in any other place where the meter will not
be plainly visible, and cannot be kept clean and free from injury.
   (L)   The readings of one meter will not be subtracted from readings of
another meter to obtain a consumer’s consumption.
   (M)   New meter installations which have been placed in locations which are
difficult to reach or which make the reading and care of meter unreasonably
difficult will be ordered changed. Old meter installations may be changed by
agreement between the Utility and consumer on the cost.
   (N)   (1)   When a meter is placed in a building any repairs necessary,
except those resulting from ordinary wear, must be paid for by the consumer.
Repairs to any meter whether at the curb or in the building, which is damaged
by hot water or heat, must be paid by the consumer.
      (2)   The Utility may require the consumer to place check valves and
relief valves or other protective devices in the line to prevent damage to
meter.
   (O)   (1)   No person shall turn on or off or change in any way the meter
pit and setting on any water service, or any valve controlling any water
service.
      (2)   No person, except a representative of the Water Utility, shall
change, alter, move, remove, tamper with, damage or operate any line, valves,
machinery, equipment or property belonging to or being a part of the system of
the Utility.
   (P)   Cross connections between the Utility system and any other source of
water supply is absolutely prohibited. When the Utility furnishes water service
to any firm, corporation, person or persons using or being connected to another
source of water supply, the Utility will require that the rules of the State
Board of Health be followed.
§ 51.15 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints must be filed in writing at the office of the Utility before the
bill becomes delinquent.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class (A) infraction and, upon the first
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of $25, and upon the second and all
subsequent convictions, shall be punished by a fine of $100. Each violation
shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating § 51.01(C) of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $25 and not more than $100. After receipt of written
notice of the violation of this chapter from the town, each successive day of
the continued violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
punishable under this section.
   (C)   If a person charged with violating this chapter admits his or her
guilt, he or she may pay the fine to the Clerk of the Utilities, or the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 6-21-85, passed 6-21-85)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
52.01   Purpose, policies, objectives
   
52.02   Administration
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.05   Private treatment or disposal of wastewater
   
52.06   Sewer connection permits
   
52.07   Specific discharge limitations
   
52.08   Pretreatment
   
52.09   State/federal requirements
   
52.10   Pumping station specifications
   
52.11   Dilution
   
52.12   Accidental discharge
   
52.13   Right of access
   
52.14   Enforcement
   
52.15   Abatement
   
52.16   Storm Water Regulations
   
52.17   Storm Water District
   
Appendix: Hook-up and sewer connection fee schedule
§ 52.01 PURPOSE, POLICIES, OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   A chapter regulating the connection to and use of public and private
sewers and drains, the installation and connection of building sewers, and the
discharge of waters and wastes into the public sewer system of the Town of
Shirley, Indiana, and providing penalties for violations thereof. In addition,
this subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the Town
of Shirley, and enables the town to comply with all applicable State and
Federal laws.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system or contaminate the resultant sludge and reduce the opportunity for its
disposal through land application.
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will pass through the system, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system.
   (C)   This chapter amends and repeals all previous ordinances in the Public
Utilities of the Town Code of the Town of Shirley.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The sewer works shall be administered by the Town Council, established
in and hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board shall have general
management responsibility for the staffing and operations of the sewer works.
   (B)   The town shall make and enforce such by- laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town sewerage system, regulator chambers, pumping station and sewage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the
sewerage system, and for the regulations, collection, rebating, and refunding
of such rates and charges.
   (C)   The Board is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town sewerage system, which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of said town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to reduce the characteristics of the
waste satisfactorily to the town.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows. Any terms not defined herein, but
defined in the Sewer Rate Ordinance shall have the same meaning herein.
   AMMONIA (or NH3-N).  The same as Ammonia Nitrogen measured as Nitrogen. The
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in STANDARD METHODS.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (or B.O.D.).  The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20 degrees Celsius. The laboratory determinations shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   BOARD. The Town Council of the Town of Shirley, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials or boards acting in its behalf.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN.  The lowest horizontal piping of building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and convey it to a point approximately
five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY.  A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM.  A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to
the sewerage system or other place of disposal.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY.  A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER - STORM.  A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
Permit if the treatment works were designed to treat such pollutants and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   DISCHARGE. To emit a substance into the sanitary sewer.
   DISCHARGER (or CONTRIBUTOR).  Any person discharging into the public sewer
system.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM.  Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL.  Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the Town Council.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids, and further defined in
Regulation 40 CFR Part 403.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process, or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further mean any waste
from an industrial sewer.
   INFILTRATION.  The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW.  The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW.  The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundations drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include and is distinguishable
from INFILTRATION.)
   INSPECTOR.  The person or persons duly authorized by the town to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system and the town hereby designates the Wastewater Superintendent or
his or her designated representative.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR.  A contributor that:
      (1)   Has a flow equal to or greater than twenty-five thousand (25,000)
gallons per 24-hour period; or
      (2)   Has, in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
Section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste; or
      (4)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to Section
307(a) of the Act, of State regulations; or
      (5)   Is found by the Town of Shirley, Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to have significant impact, either singly or in connection with other
contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of
sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.  Shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Sewage Rate Ordinance.
   NPDES PERMIT.  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
of PL 95-217.
   PERSON.  Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individuals, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Indiana, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS (or P).  The chemical element phosphorus, total. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
STANDARD METHODS as defined in this chapter.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6
(d); and shall include all applicable rules and regulations contained in the
code of Federal Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under Section
307 of the Public Law 95-217, under regulation 40 CFR Part 403 pursuant to the
Act, and amendments.
   PRIVATE SEWER.  A sewer which is not owned by public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
      (3)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary pumping facilities.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24 hour concentration
of flow during normal operation end which adversely affects the sewage works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and The Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT or UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the
municipal sewage works of the Town of Shirley, Indiana, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN.  Town Council, Agent, or a duly appointed designee of the Town of
Shirley.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act (P.L. 94217).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provide.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 500° C. for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittent.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.04 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human excrements,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial water.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers, which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the Town Street Commissioner.
   (D)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the Town Council. Where a storm sewer is not
available, discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by Town Council and by
the regulating agencies of the State of Indiana. Where a storm sewer, combined
sewer or drainage ditch is not available, such unpolluted water may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the Town Council.
   (E)   No new connection to sanitary sewers shall be made unless there is
capacity available to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant, including capacity for pollutant loadings.
   (F)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
Town Council, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and
the NPDES Permit.
   (G)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
Permit.
   (H)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (I)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer toilet facilities therein, shall connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice
to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property
line.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to introduce inflow sources to any sanitary
sewer.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to construct new combined sewers.
   (L)   It shall be required that any new construction which will be tributary
to a combined sewer be designed to minimize or delay inflow contribution to
said combined sewer.
   (M)   It shall be required that any new building connection to a combined
sewer shall have the inflow/clean water connection separate and distinct from
the sanitary waste sewer.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.05 PRIVATE TREATMENT OR DISPOSAL OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of § 52.04(I), the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first notify the Board through the Superintendent, and
the owner shall further seek and obtain the Town Council’s permission prior to
any construction.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health and
applicable county regulations.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewer disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material, consistent with local and state Board of Health
regulations.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (F)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (G)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Officer.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.06 SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Utility Office.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: One for
residential service, and another for commercial and industrial service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the said town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $200 shall be paid to the town
at the time the application is filed. When a successful inspection has been
completed a $150 refund will be issued. The fees for an industrial building
shall be determined by the Town Council at the time of installation.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in application thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 of the
rules of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the State Board
of Health shall apply. The size and slope of all building sewers shall be
subject to the approval of the Wastewater Superintendent or his or her
designated representative, but in no event shall be less than eight inches. The
slope of such six-inch pipe shall not be less than 1/8 inch per foot.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by means approved by the
Board and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement drains,
sump pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface run-off ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided by
the applicant and not the town when, in the opinion of the Board, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients,
except that such interceptors or traps will not be required for private-living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Board and shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures
and shall be of substantial construction, be gas tight, water tight and
equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed, all grease, oil and
sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
      (2)   Specifications for grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be in
accordance with current Sections of the Indiana Plumbing Rules, (660 IAC 9)
originally published as (4 IR 2398) which identifies, amends, and incorporates
therein the Uniform Plumbing Code, Latest Edition. Copies of the aforementioned
Code and Rules, Regulations and Codes adopted herein by reference are on file
as required by law in the office of the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, and the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
Inspector or his or her representative. The applicant shall notify the
Inspector prior to working, installation and connection to the public sewer and
the town may require re-excavation if notice is not received within 24 hours.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Street
Commissioner. All applicants shall comply with all state statutes.
   (M)   Sewage service shall not be provided, to any customer outside the
corporate limits of the town unless under special contract, subject to approval
by the Board after consideration of all factors addressed by this chapter.
   (N)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement between the town and any industrial concern,
at such rules as are compatible with the Rate Ordinance.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -; Ord. 120118-B, passed 12-1-18)
§ 52.07 SPECIFIC DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or
animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the sewage treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six, or higher than
nine, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structure, equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or that
interferes with any treatment process.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      (5)   Any wastewater containing any cations, anions, compounds or
substances exceeding the concentrations listed below as measured at the point
of discharge into the town’s sewage collection system or at the sampling
manhole(s) approved by the town, or not less than limits specified by IDEM and
the NPDES Permit.
      (6)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals
or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater works.
      (7)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants, which exceed the
limitations set forth in the applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or other pretreatment standard or regulations issued by EPA or the
IDEM. A toxic pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
      (8)   Where more than one standard (local, state or federal) applies to
discharge limitations for a particular pollutant, the standard which shall
apply is the most stringent of the appropriate limitations.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Board that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, health, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of any wastes, the Board will give
consideration to all factors addressed under this chapter including, but not
limited to, the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. or 65°
C.
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F. or 0° and
65° C.
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower
(0.76 hp metric) or greater or of a commercial nature shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Board.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing taste or odor producing substances,
in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the Board
as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements
of the State, Federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such
discharge to the receiving waters.
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Board in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
      (6)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Concentrations of inert suspended solids exceeding 250 mg/l
(such as, but not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues)
or concentrations of dissolved solids exceeding 600 mg/l (such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (c)   Excessive BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in quantities greater than 250 mg/l constitute a significant load on the sewage
treatment works.
         (d)   Excessive volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (7)   Any water or waste that causes corrosive structural damage to the
treatment works or collection system or any sewer or appurtenances owned or
operated by the town.
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      (9)   Any substance which will cause the wastewater treatment plant to
violate its NPDES permit.
      (10)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit or
cause to be deposited, or discharged in any manner whatsoever, any substance
into a sewer at a point different than the permitted sewer connection to the
sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   The Board may impose mass-based discharge limitations in terms of
pounds of specific pollutants discharged per day for new major
contributors or major contributors with any increase in discharges. These mass
limitations may result in lower concentration-based specific discharge limits
than those established in § 52.07.
   (D)   Anon-domestic discharger of any listed or characteristic hazardous
wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) must immediately
notify the Utility of the amount and frequency of the hazardous waste
discharge.
   (E)   Existing Industrial or major contributors shall be required to meet
the discharge limitations established in this subchapter within three years
from the date of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.08 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §§ 52.07(A) and 52.07(B), and which
in the judgment of the Board, based upon all factors addressed in this chapter,
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or otherwise create a hazard to life, health or constitute a
public nuisance, the Board may:
      (1)   Require all new industrial waste or major contributors and
industrial waste or major contributors with any increase in discharges to
submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior approval for
discharge.
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the Board.
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to comply with the limits as
defined by this chapter.
      (4)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (5)   If the Board permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Board and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (B)   In addition to meeting the discharge limits enumerated in §§ 52.07(A)
and 52.07(B), pretreatment of industrial wastes from contributing industries
prior to discharge of the treatment works is subject to the EPA Rules and
Regulations as contained in 40 CFR Part 403 and New Sources of Pollution dated
January 28, 1981, as amended.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the Board
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted and an IDEM construction permit is obtained. Where such
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operating order by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
subject to periodic inspection by the town to determine that such facilities
are being operated in conformance with the applicable Federal, State and local
laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating records of the influent
and effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and for
comparison against the Board or its representative’s monitoring records.
   (D)   The Board and its representatives may require users of the treatment
works to supply pertinent information on wastewater characteristics. This
information may be requested on a monthly or quarterly basis. Such
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the users’ expense.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent and subject to approval by the
Board, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying non-
residential wastes shall install a suitable control manhole(s) together with
such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole
(s), when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The
manhole(s) shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times. Agents
of the town, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (F)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in the Sewer Rate Ordinance, from
samplings taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of
such duration and in such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the town.
The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used for
determination of charges after verification by the town.
   (G)   Periodically, at least once each calendar quarter, the town may
monitor the discharge from any non-domestic source and bill the discharger the
cost of monitoring and analyzing for any or all controlled pollutants. The town
shall reserve the right to conduct additional inspection, testing, and
monitoring as is deemed appropriate to ensure that dischargers are in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   (1)   The Board may assess charges and fees from any nondomestic
discharger which may include:
         (a)   Fees for any monitoring, inspections, surveillance and
analyzing.
         (b)   Fees for reviewing plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to pretreatment control facilities and accidental
discharge procedures.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the Board. A schedule of
applicable charges and fees are available from the Utility.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for application for NPDES Permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA, 40 CFR Part 136 and any subsequent revisions
subject to approval by the town. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by the customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, health and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-
hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.)
   (J)   Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (K)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with § 52.04.
   (L)   All discharges subject to local, state, or federal regulations must
retain and preserve for at least three years, any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence, any and all summaries relating to
monitoring, sampling, and chemical analyses made by or on the behalf of a
discharger in connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to
matters which are the subject of any enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the town must be retained and preserved by the discharger until all
enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation concerning
any appeals have expired.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.09 STATE/FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable State and/or Federal requirements now, or projected to be in effect.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.10 PUMPING STATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Any pumping station that is proposed to be utilized as part of a public
sewer shall not be built or installed unless the pumping station is approved by
the Wastewater Superintendent. In granting approval for all pumping stations,
the Wastewater Superintendent shall be guided and directed by the technical
specifications for concrete submersible pumping stations and wet well mount
pumps stations that are adopted as a part of this chapter and detained by the
Town Council. The specifications attached to this chapter may be amended from
time to time in the discretion of the Town Council by a motion made and
approved by a majority of the appointed Board.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.11 DILUTION.
   No discharger shall be allowed to increase the use of potable or process
water in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.12 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated materials or substances. Where necessary, procedures
and facilities to prevent the accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the discharger’s expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the town for review, and be approved by the town before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of plans and operating
procedures by the town shall not relieve the discharger from the responsibility
to modify its facility as necessary to meet applicable requirements.
   (B)   Dischargers shall orally notify the Wastewater Treatment Plant
immediately when a slugload, accidental discharge, any unusual flows or wastes,
or any wastewaters discharged in violation of this chapter, accidentally or
otherwise to the sewer system occurs, to enable the Wastewater Treatment Plant
to take countermeasures to minimize damage to the community sewer, treatment
facility, treatment process, and receiving waters. Dischargers shall notify the
Wastewater Treatment Plant at (___) ________, during all hours. The
notification shall include location of the discharge, date and time of
occurrence, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions
that were taken.
   (C)   This notification shall be followed, within ten days of the date of
the occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the accidental
discharge, the causes, duration including times and dates of non-compliance,
and the measures being taken to prevent future occurrences.
   (D)   Such notification will not relieve the users of a liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the sewer system, treatment plant, or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed by the town by State or Federal regulations,
rules and statutes.
   (E)   In order that employees of users be informed of town requirements,
users shall make available to their employees copies of this chapter and
together with such, other wastewater information and notices which may be
furnished by the town from time to time, directed toward more effective water
pollution control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted on a
user’s bulletin board or other conspicuous place advising whom to call in case
of accidental discharge in violation of the chapter.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.13 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties, at any time without prior notice, for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
   (B)   The town may immediately and without prior notice suspend the
wastewater treatment service of a discharger if it appears to the town, based
upon factors addressed in this chapter, that an actual or threatened discharge
presents an imminent danger to the welfare of persons, to the environment, to
the operation of the town’s wastewater treatment plant, or contaminates the
resultant sludge and jeopardizes the opportunity for its disposal through land
application, or violates any discharge limits. Any discharger notified of the
suspension of wastewater treatment service must immediately cease all
discharges. If the discharger fails to comply voluntarily with a suspension
order, the town may immediately commence judicial proceeding to compel the
discharger’s compliance with the order. The town can reinstate the wastewater
treatment service and terminate judicial proceeding provided the discharger can
prove the elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions as outlined
above.
   (C)   Whenever the town finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct
other than that set forth in division (B) above, which justifies revocation of
a permit or suspension of service, the town will serve the discharger with a
written notice, either personally or by certified or registered mail, stating
the nature of the alleged violation. Within ten days of the date of receipt of
this notice, the discharger must respond personally or in writing to the town,
advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the
parties must meet to determine the seriousness of the allegations and where
necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation.
   (D)   Where a violation of the town’s ordinance or if applicable
pretreatment regulations occurs and is not corrected by timely compliance, the
town may order any discharger to show cause before them and state why the
proposed permit revocation action should not be taken. A written notice must be
served on the discharger by personal service, certified or registered,
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the town. The hearing
will consider the violations, the proposed enforcement action, reasons why the
enforcement action is to be taken, and directing the discharger to show cause
before the town as to why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the hearing must be served no less than ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer, or authorized
representative of a discharger. The proceedings at the hearing will be
considered by the town and appropriate orders with respect to the alleged
improper activities of the discharger will be issued.
   (E)   The town is entitled to inspect or review any storm sewer, any storm
sewer connections, or any downspouts or anything located on anyone’s property
in order to check the storm water system or anything of that nature.
   (F)   Any user affected by any decision, action, or determination made by
the town, interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter or in any
permit issued herein, may be appealed to the Circuit Court of the county under
the appeal procedures provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication
Act.
   (G)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into a town’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the Municipal Ordinance,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the town, the Town
Attorney may commence a judicial action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.15 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   When a discharge of wastes causes an obstruction, damage, or any other
impairment to the town’s facilities, the town may assess a charge against the
user for the work required to clean or repair the facility and add such charge
to the user’s charges and fees.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or permit
condition or who discharges wastewater which causes pollution, or who violates
any cease and desist order, prohibition, effluent limitation, national standard
of performance, pretreatment or toxicity standard shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 per day. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation of this Subchapter.
   (C)   Any person who discharges sewage, industrial waste, wastewater, or
other waste into the collection and/or treatment system of the Town of Shirley
shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter and all applicable, local,
state, and federal laws and regulations and shall indemnify the town and be
liable for any fine, penalty, or judgment assessed against the town and/or its
duly authorized agents as a result of said person violation of said local,
state, or federal law or regulation.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, report, or other document required by this
chapter or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction, be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty or criminal penalty as required by the local
and/or state statutes.
(Ord. 040602, passed - -)
§ 52.16 STORM WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town’s
storm water sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the Sewage Treatment Works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works. In furtherance of this section, the Superintendent
of the Wastewater Treatment Plant and/or the Town Engineer is authorized to
issue an order prohibiting further acceptance of effluent from any user who
refuses to comply with the terms, conditions and provisions of this chapter as
well as to rescind or terminate the users permit to discharge effluent into the
collection treatment or discharge sewer treatment facilities of the town.
   (B)   Storm water and any other un-polluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Town Engineer and the state into a storm
sewer or natural outlet. No roof drains, eaves, or roof runoff shall be
discharged into a sanitary sewer or combined sewer.
    (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans in receiving waters of the sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans in receiving waters of the sewage treatment
plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups milk container, and other like
items, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes, except if it appears likely
in the opinion of the City Engineer and/or the Superintendent of the Wastewater
Treatment Plant that such wastes will not harm either the sewers, the sewage
treatment process or equipment, nor have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, nor otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property, nor constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Town Engineer and/or the Superintendent of the Wastewater Treatment
Plan will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. Unacceptable substances include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. or 65°
C.
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l, of which not more than 25 mg/l is
soluble oils, or containing substances which may solidify or become so highly
viscous as to retard flow in the sewer systems at temperatures between 32° F.
and 150° F. (0° and 65° C.).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder, other than in a residence, may be subject
to the review and approval of the Town Engineer.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes exceeding the following maximum allowable
limits: 2 mg/l of zinc, 2 mg/l of total chromium, .1 mg/l cadmium, .5 mg/l of
copper, .5 mg/l of cyanide, 2.0 mg/l of nickel, 1 mg/l of chromium as Cr
(hexavalent), .002 mg/l of mercury as Hg, .05 mg/l of lead as Pb, 30 mg/l of
chlorine demand, 15 mg/l of iron, and similar objectionable or toxic
substances; or wastes exerting excessive chlorine requirements, to such degree
that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment
works exceeds the limits established by the City Engineer for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances after treatment of the limits which may be established by
the Town Engineer as necessary to meet the requirements of state, federal, or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the respective
waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Town Engineer in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of less than 5.0 or in excess of
9.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentra- tions of inert, suspended solids, such as,
but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
         (b)   Excessive dis- coloration, such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning.
   (E)   Enforcement:
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
      (2)   The town may immediately and without prior notice suspend the
wastewater treatment service of a discharger if it appears to the town, based
upon
factors addressed in this chapter, that an actual or threatened discharge
presents an imminent danger to the welfare of persons, to the environment, to
the operation of the town’s wastewater treatment plant, or contaminates the
resultant sludge and jeopardizes the opportunity for its disposal through land
application, or violates any discharge limits. Any discharger notified of the
suspension of wastewater treatment service must immediately cease all
discharges. If the discharger fails to comply voluntarily with a suspension
order, the town may immediately commence judicial proceeding to compel the
discharger’s compliance with the order. The town can reinstate the wastewater
treatment service and terminate judicial proceeding provided the discharger can
prove the elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions as outlined
above.
      (3)   Whenever the town finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct
other than that set forth in § 52.14(B) which justifies revocation of a permit
or suspension of service, the town will serve the discharger with a written
notice, either personally or by certified or registered mail, stating the
nature of the alleged violation. Within ten days of the date of receipt of this
notice, the discharger must respond personally or in writing to the town,
advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the
parties must meet to determine the seriousness of the allegations and where
necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation.
      (4)   Where a violation of the town’s ordinance or if applicable
pretreatment regulations occurs and is not corrected by timely compliance, the
town may order any discharger to show cause before them and state why the
proposed permit revocation action should not be taken. A written notice must be
served on the discharger by personal service, certified or registered,
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the town. The hearing
will consider the violations, the proposed enforcement action, reasons why the
enforcement action is to be taken, and directing the discharger to show cause
before the town as to why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the hearing must be served no less than ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer, or authorized
representative of a discharger. The proceedings at the hearing will be
considered by the town and appropriate orders with respect to the alleged
improper activities of the discharger will be issued.
      (5)   The town is entitled to inspect or review any storm sewer, any
storm sewer connections, or any downspouts or anything located on anyone’s
property in order to check the storm water system or anything of that nature.
      (6)   Any user affected by any decision, action, or determination made by
the town, interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter or in any
permit issued herein, may be appealed to the Circuit Court of the county under
the appeal procedures provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication
Act.
      (7)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into a town’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the Municipal Ordinance,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the town, the town
attorney may commence a judicial action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief.
   (F)   Abatement:
      (1)   When a discharge of wastes causes an obstruction, damage, or any
other impairment to the town’s facilities, the town may assess a charge against
the user for the work required to clean or repair the facility and add such
charge to the user’s charges and fees.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or permit
condition or who discharges wastewater which causes pollution, or who violates
any cease and desist order, prohibition, effluent limitation, national standard
of performance, pretreatment or toxicity standard shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 per day. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person who discharges sewage, industrial waste, wastewater, or
other waste into the collection and/or treatment system of the town shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter and all applicable, local, state,
and federal laws and regulations and shall indemnify the town and be liable for
any fine, penalty, or judgement assessed against the town and/or its duly
authorized agents as a result of the person violation of the local, state, or
federal law or regulation.
      (4)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation,
or certification in any application, report, or other document required by this
chapter or other applicable regulations, or who tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device, will, upon conviction, be punished by
the imposition of a civil penalty or criminal penalty as required by the local
and/or state statutes.
(Ord. 04- -02, passed - -)
§ 52.17 STORM WATER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is necessary for the protection of the public
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the Shirley Storm Water District and
the safeguarding of the property within the District, and its adoption is of
public utility and benefit.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   The rates and charges authorized herein are in accordance with I.C.
36-9-23-1 et seq.
      (2)   Accordingly, the rates and charges authorized herein have been
recommended by resolution of the Department of Storm Water Management, and
approved by ordinance of the Town Council.
      (3)   The rates and charges authorized herein shall be billed on the
first billing cycle of the town’s utilities after approval of such ordinance by
the Town Council.
   (C)   Monthly storm water utility and user fee.
      (1)   The monthly storm water utility and user fee will be $5 per month
for each single-dwelling unit, each non-residential unit, and each residential/
business unit.
      (2)   The monthly storm water utility and user fee will be charged to all
residential, non-residential, and combined residential/business properties.
         (a)   The monthly user fee will be uniform for each residential, each
nonresidential and each combined residential/business unit.
         (b)   This allocates that all residential, business and other uses of
property in the town place demands on the storm water system and benefit from
the storm water activities.
      (3)   (a)   Any connection to the storm water system will cause a charge
of time and materials for such connection.
         (b)   Any connection to the system shall include an inspection fee of
$25 and connection to the system shall be time and materials and cost to make
such a connection.
   (D)   Late charge. If the monthly storm water utility fee is not paid by the
due date stated on the bill, a late charge of 10% will be assessed, together
with costs of collection, if any, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (E)   Partial payments. Partial payments on the monthly utility bills shall
be paid and applied as follows:
      (1)   First to the water fee;
      (2)   Second to the storm fee;
      (3)   Third to the trash fee; and
      (4)   Fourth to the sanitary sewer fee.
(Ord. 06-12-11, passed 7-18-11; Ord. 07-18-11, passed 7-18-11; Ord. 120118-C,
passed 12-1-18)
APPENDIX: HOOK-UP AND SEWER CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE
Water Service Size Area Area Ratio Fee ($)
Water Service Size Area   Area Ratio Fee ($)
3/4 inch           0.4418 1.000      350.00
1 inch             0.7854 1.777      621.95
1.5 inch           1.767  4.000      1,400.00
2.0 inch           3.142  7.112      2,489.00
2.5 inch           4.909  11.110     3,888.50
3 inch             7.069  16.000     5,600.00
4 inch             12.57  28.452     9,958.20
 
(Ord. 04- -02, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY BILLING PROCEDURE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Utility billing policies and procedures
   
53.03   Utility billing
   
53.04   Rate ordinances
   
53.05   Monthly utility bill; rate determination
   
53.06   Extra service bills
   
53.07   Billing cycle
   
53.08   Delinquent customers
   
53.09   Municipal utility service application
   
53.10   Disputed utility bills
   
53.11   Promissory agreement
   
53.12   Service charges
   
53.13   Trash service fee
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILL. The statement of account for municipal utility services rendered by
the town to a customer and due and payable to the town by the customer.
   CUSTOMER. The deeded owner of the property receiving sanitary sewer and/or
water service.
   DELINQUENT CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation or entity who fails to
pay any current charges or portion thereof for any municipal utility by the due
date of the bill.
   DISCONNECT. The sewer and water services shall not be made available to any
person, firm, corporation or entity due to non-payment.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. The Sewer and Water Departments or system of the town.
   PAST DUE AMOUNT. Any current charges or portion thereof for any municipal
utility which remain unpaid past the due date of the bill on which such current
charges first appear.
   PROMISSORY AGREEMENT. A contract between customer and the town allowing the
customer to make payments to the town to pay any current or past due charges or
portion thereof for any municipal utility by a determined date.
   TOWN. The municipal corporation known as the Town of Shirley, and any
municipal subdivision or department of the town or any designated agent
authorized to act on behalf of the town.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.02 UTILITY BILLING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following policies and procedures shall govern the provision of
municipal utilities of the town.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.03 UTILITY BILLING.
   There is hereby created a utility billing section within such department as
may be designated by the Town Council. The billing section shall be responsible
for the calculation and rendering of all municipal utility bills. The utility
billing section shall maintain account records for each customer that includes
the customer’s name, billing address, emergency phone number, service address,
current charges and account history including past due charges, penalties and
fees.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.04 RATE ORDINANCES.
   The town shall establish, maintain and periodically revise the water and
sewer rate ordinance. These ordinances shall contain all the various fees,
rates and charges that the municipal utility will charge to its customers. All
municipal utility charges shall be calculated in accordance with the current
water and sewer rate ordinances applicable to the municipal utilities or
services rendered to a customer.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.05 MONTHLY UTILITY BILL; RATE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The utility billing section of the town shall provide each municipal
utility customer with a monthly water, sewer, trash and storm water bill. The
customer is responsible for paying each monthly bill in a timely manner. Bills
for municipal utility services shall be rendered and paid monthly.
   (B)   (1)   The town’s water and sewer rate ordinances contain the provision
for both monthly flat rates and monthly metered rates.
      (2)   All residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for
water service and sanitary sewer service in accordance with the water and sewer
rate ordinances.
      (3)   All residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for
storm water service as in accordance with Storm Water Ordinance 061211.
      (4)   All residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for
trash service as in accordance with the Fee for Trash Service Ordinance
20160909.
      (5)   All non-residential use customers will be billed a monthly rate for
water service and sanitary sewer service in accordance with the water and sewer
rate ordinances. These rate charges will be determined by the water use
characteristics of the non-residential customer.
      (6)   The town and its agents have the power, right and ability to
investigate the water and sewer use characteristics of any customer at any time
and modify the customer’s billing rate based on that investigation, in
accordance with the water and sewer rate ordinances.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.06 EXTRA SERVICE BILLS.
   Billings for any installation charges, penalties, collection fees or other
special charges shall be rendered in accordance with the applicable utility or
service rate resolution and shall be sent as a separate bill.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.07 BILLING CYCLE.
   (A)   Usage period. The usage period is the month or any part of the month
during which water and/or sanitary sewer service is provided or is available to
be provided to a customer of the utility or the month or part of the month that
a customer’s property is physically connected to the town’s water and/or
sanitary sewer system. Meters are read during the last week of the month. All
usage between reading dates is the usage period.
   (B)   Bill date. The bill date shall be the fifteenth day of the month
following the usage period.
   (C)   Billing period. The billing period is the time between the bill date
and the delinquent date. Billings will be distributed by the town to each
customer of the town on a monthly basis through the issuance of a monthly bill
on the bill date. Each monthly bill will state the date the bill is due and the
date after which the bill is considered delinquent and delinquent fees will be
added. The total bill shall be due and payable by the close of business no
later than 15 days after the bill date (in months that contain 30 or more days
this would be the thirtieth day of the month). The fifteenth day of the month
following the billing date shall be known as the due date. If the due date
falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday the due date shall be on the first
business day following the holiday or weekend.
   (D)   Delinquent date. If a bill is not paid on or before the close of
business of the due date, a late charge equal to 10% of the first $3 and 3% of
the remainder shall be added to water bills and a late charge equal to 10% of
the current sewer bill amount shall be added to the charges. The first business
day following the due date shall be known as the delinquent date. If the
delinquent date falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday the bill shall then
become delinquent at 8:00 a.m. on the first business day following the holiday
or weekend.
   (E)   Lien notification date. If a sewer bill is not paid on or before the
close of business on the sixtieth business day following the due date, the town
will send an “intention to file lien” letter to the property address. If an
owner of a non-owner occupied property has provided its name and address to the
town with a request to be notified of billing delinquencies, a copy of the
“intention to file lien” letter will also be sent to this address. If the lien
notification date falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday the “intention to file
lien” letter shall then be distributed on the first business day following the
holiday or weekend.
   (F)   Lien file date. If a sewer bill is not paid on or before ten business
days following the lien notification date, the town or the Town Attorney shall
file a lien on the property at its earliest convenience. The date ten business
days following the lien notification date shall be known as the lien file date.
If the lien file date falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday then the first
date that liens will be filed shall then occur on the first business day
following the holiday or weekend.
   (G)   Water service disconnection date. If a water bill is not paid on or
before the close of business on the tenth of the month following the month of
the bill date (approximately 25 days after the bill date and approximately ten
days after the delinquent date), the water service of the customer is subject
to disconnection without additional notice. Approximately two days prior to the
disconnection date the town will post a notice of “intent to disconnect” at the
premise. All water bills subject to disconnection shall be disconnected by the
town utility personnel on the same day in the order determined by the town
utility personnel to be most practical and efficient and without discrimination
or prejudice.
   (H)   Clerk-Treasurer as Hearing Officer on application for extension on
disconnection of service. A person owing an unpaid water bill may appeal in
writing to the Clerk-Treasurer for an extension of the date when water service
would be subject to discontinuation, setting forth in detail the extraordinary
hardship or other unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot
be paid within the allowed period. The Clerk-Treasurer, acting as the Hearing
Officer for the extension request, may grant or deny such request, in whole or
in part. The Hearing Officer may require partial payment of the delinquent bill
in return for granting an extension. The extension shall only extend to the
next due date. Any other requests must be appealed in writing to the Town
Council within five days of the Clerk-Treasurer’s decision.
   (I)   Appeal of Hearing Officer’s denial of disconnection extension. A
person owing an unpaid water bill may appeal the determination of the Clerk
Treasurer acting as Hearing Officer in division (H) above. The appeal will be
in writing to the Town Council which shall act on the appeal in its capacity as
the governing board of the Municipal Water Corporation. The written appeal
request shall set forth in detail (1) the extraordinary hardship or other
unavoidable circumstances whereby the delinquent bill cannot be fully paid
within the allowed period, (2) the specific relief requested, and (3) the
reason(s) that the person owing an unpaid water bill believes that the adverse
determination of the Clerk-Treasurer acting as Hearing Officer was arbitrary or
capricious. The Town Council shall consider such appeal at its next scheduled
Town Council meeting. Any contemplated discontinuation of water service shall
be deferred pending the determination of the appeal by the Town Council. The
Town Council in its appeal determination may (1) deny the appeal, or (2) grant
the appeal in whole or in part, and/or (3) may require partial payment of the
delinquent bill in return for granting the extension. Upon denial of the appeal
the delinquent user shall be given 48 hours’ notice of the appeal denial prior
to the discontinuation of service.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.08 DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Any customer whose bill remains unpaid at 5:00 p.m. on the thirtieth
day of the month (the “delinquent” date) shall be considered delinquent. Any
customer who is delinquent may be contacted by the town in an attempt to
collect payment for the delinquent bill. The town may also refer delinquent
customers to a collection agency or attorney for collection on a case-by-case
basis. Delinquent accounts are also subject to the filing of liens in
accordance with the town’s billing procedure.
   (B)   Delinquent accounts that have been filed as liens can no longer be
paid in the normal manner but must be paid to the county in the manner
proscribed by the county for lien payments. Lien filings will include
reasonable collection and attorney fees.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.09 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to establish any municipal utility
service or combination thereof shall make application for said service. The
application shall be on such form(s) as may now or hereinafter be prescribed by
the town. The application shall include the applicant’s name, spouse’s name,
service address, mailing address, landlord’s name, telephone number and
personal identification number (e.g., social security number, driver’s license
number and date of birth) or federal identification number (businesses) and
signature of the party responsible for payment. Persons applying on behalf of
others or acting as an agent for others may provide the required information
provided such agent agrees to assume responsibility for the person, firm or
corporation upon whose behalf they are applying. Each service location shall be
considered a separate account. The town may request to make a copy of the
applicant’s driver’s license or other government issued identification in order
to confirm identity.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.10 DISPUTED UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   A customer may request a face-to-face conference regarding any dispute
over a disputed utility bill or other service matter before the Town Council,
or its designee, to hear such matters. All such matters will be resolved in
accordance with I.C. 8-1-2-103, I.C. 8-1.5-3.5, the written polices of the town
and the judgment of the Town Council.
   (B)   Only the Town Council has the ability to modify, change or mitigate a
utility bill.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.11 PROMISSORY AGREEMENT.
   Any customer may request a face-to-face conference with the Town Clerk, to
consider entering into a payment plan or promissory agreement that identifies
certain terms and conditions of a payment plan that would cause a utility
account to be made current. If a customer fails to make good on any term and/or
condition contained within the promissory agreement, other collection
procedures may be implemented immediately.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.12 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following additional fees shall be charged for services provided by the
municipal utility:
   (A)   Returned check fees.
      (1)   For all checks that are returned, $24.
      (2)   Returned checks, the customer shall pay, by cash or money order,
the amount of the returned check(s) plus the corresponding returned check fee.
      (3)   After two returned checks in any 12-month period, the customer
shall pay all current and future payments by cash or money order.
      (4)   In its pursuit of collection for return checks the town will follow
I.C. 26-2-7 and/or I.C. 34-24-3 which in certain cases allow the collection of
damages.
   (B)   Reconnection fee. Once water service is disconnected, an additional
service fee of $50 will be charged to the customer for the reconnection of
water service.
   (C)   Meter tampering. A charge equal to the cost to the town of any repairs
caused by the meter tampering will be billed in addition to the cost of the
estimated usage not recorded due to the meter tampering. Subsequent meter
tampering will cause the disconnection of water service.
   (D)   Sewer permit. Permit and connection fee for sewer connection is $200
with $150 back after inspection by Town Maintenance.
   (E)   Tap fee. The cost of initial customer tapping into or connecting to
the town’s utility system shall be $1,500 for water five-eighths or three-
quarter inch lines plus additional costs up to $1,000 if incurred (boring, long
runs, etc.); $2,000 for sewer unless existing sewer connection is on the
property and connection is in working order; actual cost of making the water
and sewer connection for other meter sizes but not less than the cost of the
water and sewer connection for a five-eighths or three-quarter inch meter.
   (F)   Deposit (water).
      (1)   Property owners: $150.
      (2)   Renters: $200.
      (3)   Customers vacating property should notify the utility office of
move out date and provide an address to forward the final billing. If no
information is provided to the utility office and customer owes the utility,
the deposit will be applied to the final bill. If a credit balance remains then
that amount will be put back into the appropriate operating fund for the
utilities.
(Res. 040216, passed 4-10-16; Ord. 20170107A, passed 1-7-17; Ord. 20170107C,
passed 5-6-17; Res. 030219A, passed 3-2-19)
§ 53.13 TRASH SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   A user fee of $10 per month is hereby established for trash collection
beginning January 1, 2017 for all town residents and any business that may
qualify for trash collection per town ordinance.
   (B)   Unpaid fees may be assessed by the town against real property provided
in I.C. 36-9-23-31 through 36-9-23-34. If fees assessed against real property
are not paid within 20 days, a penalty of 10% of the amount of the garbage fees
attaches to the delinquent fees consistent with the utilities billing and
collections processes for all utilities. The fee amount, the penalty and
reasonable attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil action in the name of
the municipality.
(Ord. 2016-0909, passed 9-9-16)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
   
73.   BICYCLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Traffic Map
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience required
   
70.21   Signs or marks
   
70.22   Traffic-control signal legend
Violation Procedure
   
70.35   Warning notices
   
70.36   Notice; service by police officer
   
70.37   Notice; first-class mail
   
70.38   Duty to appear or mail penalty after notice
   
70.39   Failure to appear or pay penalty
   
70.40   Money collected
   
70.41   Burning not permitted on streets
   
70.42   Damaging streets
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.55   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.56   Required obedience to Traffic Code
   
70.57   Obedience to police officials
   
70.58   Pushcarts; riding animals
   
70.59   Public employees
   
70.60   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the “Traffic Code of Shirley, Indiana.”
(`95 Code, § 50.01)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and ambulance and
other emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and hospital
corporations pursuant to I.C. 16-18-2-10.
      (2)   Vehicles other than ambulances which are owned by persons, firms or
corporations other than hospitals and are used in emergency service may be
designated as emergency vehicles if the vehicles are authorized to operate as
such by the State Department of Transportation.
      (3)   Motor vehicles that are approved by the Indiana Emergency Medical
Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms or corporations
other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and provide emergency medical services as defined
in I.C. 9-21-20-1 et seq.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
(I.C. 9-13-2-14)
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area shown on the zone map that is within the
Central Business District (B-2 General Business District) as shown on the Area
Zone Map.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of a sidewalk at intersections,
and also any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossings
by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area in which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self- propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-21:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self- propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
      (3)   For purposes of I.C. 9-32, includes a semi-trailer, trailer, an
off-road vehicle, a snowmobile, a mini-truck, a manufactured home, or a
recreational vehicle. The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this Traffic Code, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or officials having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop or
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. The Town Marshal and Deputy Marshal or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privileges of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any momentary stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not
occupied, attended or not attended, not to exceed ten minutes in duration.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. Any stopping of a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic and shall include roads,
avenues, alleys and parkways within the town.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(`95 Code, § 50.02)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency medical services, see I.C. 16-31-1-1 et seq.
   Emergency vehicle designated, see I.C. 9-21-20-1 et seq.
   Motor vehicles, words and phrases defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq.
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC MAP.
   The Traffic Map which is marked Map 2 is made a part hereof and shows speed
limits, one-way streets, no-parking zones and stop streets.
(`95 Code, § 51.04)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device placed in accordance with the Traffic Code of this town,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer and subject to the exemption
granted the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(`95 Code, § 50.15)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of traffic by traffic-control signals, see I.C. 9-21-4
§ 70.21 SIGNS OR MARKS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign, and when authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning there,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of these indications.
(`95 Code, § 50.16)
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic signals exhibiting the words “go,”
“caution” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored lights successively one at
a time, the following colors shall be used, and these terms and lights shall
indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign prohibits the turn. However, vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution,” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, provided that if such stop cannot be
made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing this signal are advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at other such points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or
“go” is shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
(`95 Code, § 50.17)
VIOLATION PROCEDURE
§ 70.35 WARNING NOTICES.
   The police officers of this town may issue warning notices to the owners or
operators of motor vehicles. The notices shall be in writing on forms provided
therefore and shall provide the recipients with notice and information as to
violations committed. These notices shall be made in duplicate and the Town
Marshal shall keep a record of all notices.
(`95 Code, § 50.20)
§ 70.36 NOTICE; SERVICE BY POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   When it shall appear to any police officer of the town, while acting
as an officer, that any provision of Chapter 71 or Chapter 72 has been violated
by the owner or operator of any vehicle or motor vehicle, the officer shall
immediately notify the owner or operator in writing of the violation.
   (B)   The notice shall be made in duplicate upon a standard form provided
for this purpose by the town and shall show the specific violation charged
against the owner or operator, the date the violation was committed, the state
license number of the vehicle and, if possible, the name and address of the
owner or operator. All notices shall be signed by the police officer by whom it
is issued.
   (C)   One copy of the notice shall be presented to the owner or the operator
of the vehicle if the owner or operator is present at the time the violation
has come to the attention of the officer; but if the owner or operator is not
present at the time, the officer shall post a copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place upon the vehicle, and this notice shall be deemed sufficient
and effective notice to the owner or operator of the violation or violations
noted thereon. The other copy of the notice shall be filed with the Clerk of
the Hancock County Court or the Henry County Court as the case may be.
(`95 Code, § 50.21)
§ 70.37 NOTICE; FIRST-CLASS MAIL.
   In the event a police officer is unable to make personal service of notice
upon the owner or operator, this fact shall appear on the complaint summons
filed with the Clerk of the County Court who shall then mail a copy of notice
to the last known or usual address of the owner or operator by first-class
United States mail, and this constructive notice shall constitute sufficient
and effective notice to the owner or operator of the violation or violations.
(`95 Code, § 50.22)
§ 70.38 DUTY TO APPEAR OR MAIL PENALTY AFTER NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a vehicle who has been notified shall, within
48 hours after receipt of this notice, present himself or herself, together
with the notice, at the office of the Hancock County Court or Henry County
Court, as the case may be; or the owner or operator may, within this period of
time, mail to the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk the specified penalty for
each violation.
   (B)   If personal appearance in response to the notice is made before the
Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk, the owner or operator may admit or deny the
violation or violations charged, and if admitted shall pay the Ordinance
Violations Bureau Clerk the specified penalty for each violation when provided
in the schedule of fines and costs established by the Judge of the Hancock
County Court or Henry County Court as the case may be, and if denied shall
appear in the court at the time and place set for such appearance in the notice
or as amended by the Judge of the Hancock County Court or Henry County Court,
or respective Court Clerk.
(`95 Code, § 50.23)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 36
§ 70.39 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR PAY PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any owner or operator to appear at the office of
the Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk, after having been notified as above
provided, within five days after having been so notified, or upon the failure
of any owner or operator to pay the speed penalty by mail, the person shall be
advised by first-class United States mail from the office of the Ordinance
Violations Bureau Clerk that he or she will be subject to prosecution for
failure to report or to pay the penalty. The Judge may forthwith issue a
summons or execute a complaint and warrant against the person in the Hancock
County Court or Henry County Court as the case may be, alleging in the
complaint that the person has not complied with the provisions of Chapter 72
and in what respect the chapter has been violated. The summons or complaint
shall forthwith be mailed as provided, or the Town Marshal shall serve such
summons or warrant as instructed by the court.
   (B)   Persons admitting violations and those found by the court to be
violators shall be fined in an amount not exceeding the specified penalty and
court costs and shall pay the same forthwith.
(`95 Code, § 50.24)
§ 70.40 MONEY COLLECTED.
   All park fines and penalties collected by the Hancock County Court or Henry
County Court as the case may be for violations of town ordinances and costs or
charges by Indiana law that are payable to the town shall be remitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(`95 Code, § 50.25)
§ 70.41 BURNING NOT PERMITTED ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall burn leaves or any other combustible material on the
surface of the streets or alleys.
   (B)   No person shall deposit any materials, combustible, biodegradable or
of any other nature, including, but not limited to building materials, grass,
tree limbs, leaves, appliances or trash of any nature on or upon the paved
asphalt portions of any street or alleyway within the town.
(`95 Code, § 50.26) (Ord. 3-3-86, passed 3-3-86; Ord. 9-1-87, passed 9-1-87)
§ 70.42 DAMAGING STREETS.
   No person shall run, push, pull or drag any harrow, disc harrow, vehicle or
other implement upon any of the public streets or alleys in such a manner as to
damage any of such streets or alleys.
(`95 Code, § 50.27)
Penalty, see § 70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.55 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   Officers are authorized to direct all traffic in conformance with traffic
laws, provided that, in the event of a fire or emergency or to expedite traffic
or
to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police or Fire Department may direct
traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic
laws.
(`95 Code, § 50.05)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to comply with lawful order, see
    I.C. 9-21-8-1
§ 70.56 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or to fail to perform
any act required in this Traffic Code.
(`95 Code, § 50.06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.57 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(`95 Code, § 50.07)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.58 PUSHCARTS; RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to
the provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(`95 Code, § 50.08)
§ 70.59 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code, except as otherwise permitted in this Traffic
Code or by state statute or laws of the United States.
(`95 Code, § 50.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.60 EXEMPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this Traffic Code regulating the operation, parking
and standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except
as follows.
   (B)   A driver, when operating such vehicle in an emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (C)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of
such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the
safety of others.
(`95 Code, § 50.10)
Statutory reference:
   Stopping or parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-16
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code for which another penalty
is not specifically provided shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation: $75.
      (2)   For the second violation: $150.
      (3)   For the third violation: $250.
      (4)   For the fourth violation or all other violations not referenced as
a penalty (under §§
10.99 and
70.99): $2,500.
   (B)   Each day or occurrence shall constitute a new violation and violations
shall be based upon a yearly cycle. All fines less than $250 must be paid to
the ordinance violations clerk within 30 days of issuance of the ticket or the
fine will be filed with the court. Fines greater than $250 will proceed to
court. Once filed in court, the violator may be assessed court costs, and the
court may establish the fines not to exceed $2,500.
(Am. Ord. 070715, passed 7-7-15)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Driving within sidewalk
   
71.02   Roller skating or riding toy vehicles
   
71.03   Reserved
   
71.04   Limitations on backing
   
71.05   Drivers in a procession
   
71.06   Through streets
   
71.07   Blocking intersections or crosswalks
   
71.08   Driving not permitted on unimproved streets
   
71.09   Unauthorized driving in park
   
71.10   Continuous engine running
   
71.11   Turning movements
   
71.12   Right-of-way
   
71.13   Pedestrians
   
71.14   Golf carts and/or off-road vehicles
§ 71.01 DRIVING WITHIN SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(`95 Code, § 51.25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 ROLLER SKATING OR RIDING TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
play vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk.
   (B)   No person shall operate a skateboard on Main Street or the sidewalks
parallel thereto between North Street and South Street.
(`95 Code, § 51.26) (Ord. 8-24-92, passed 8-24-92)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 RESERVED.
§ 71.04 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into an intersection or over a
crosswalk nor back a vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety.
(`95 Code, § 51.28)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as is practical and follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe.
(`95 Code, § 51.29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Main Street is a through street.
   (B)   When stop signs are erected upon a highway intersecting a through
street at the entrance thereto or at the entrance to any intersection, every
driver of a vehicle shall stop at the sign or at a clearly marked stop line
before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic-control signal.
(`95 Code, § 51.30)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Right of way at intersection with through
    highway, see I.C. 9-21-8-31
§ 71.07 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(`95 Code, § 51.31)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulating vehicles at intersections, see I.C.
    9-21-8-30, 9-21-8-31 and 9-21-8-33
§ 71.08 DRIVING NOT PERMITTED ON UNIMPROVED STREETS.
   There exists within the town certain streets and alleyways which have been
dedicated but which as of this date have not been improved; accordingly,
motorized vehicles, including automobiles, motorcycles, mopeds, tractors,
trucks and any other vehicle made for on or off road motorized transportation,
with the exception of emergency vehicles servicing the utility lines located
within the streets and alleyways, shall not use for any purpose those dedicated
streets and alleyways within the town which have not been improved.
(`95 Code, § 51.32) (Ord. 10-7-94, passed 10-7-94)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.09 UNAUTHORIZED DRIVING IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 15 years to operate any
motorized vehicle, motorized bicycle, moped, motorcycle or any other three
wheeled motorized all-terrain or off-road vehicle within any area encompassed
by the Town Park.
(`95 Code, § 51.33) (Ord. 7-12-82, passed 7-12-82)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.10 CONTINUOUS ENGINE RUNNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow in any residential
area within the town any truck engine or auxiliary engine on any truck or semi-
trailer to run for a continuous period of time in excess of 15 minutes. The
Town Marshal, or any police officer, is authorized to remove and tow away, or
have removed and towed away, by commercial towing service, at the owner’s
expense, any vehicle illegally parked in any place in violation of this
section.
(`95 Code, § 51.34) (Ord. 5-1-89, passed 5-1-89)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(`95 Code, § 51.10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation of turns, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 71.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or street, and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(`95 Code, § 51.15)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.13 PEDESTRIANS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals declared in I.C. 9-
21-17-1, but at all other
places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the
restrictions stated in this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 53.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control devices, see I.C. 9-21-17
§ 71.14 GOLF CARTS AND/OR OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Registration and inspection fee. A valid, current registration/
inspection sticker must be affixed to the golf cart and/or off-road vehicle as
defined by Indiana Code at all times while operating on town streets. An annual
inspection fee of the inspection is $15 and shall be paid to the Town Marshal's
office. At the time of payment, the Marshal's office, before issuing the annual
registration/inspection sticker, will inspect the vehicles safety equipment and
confirm that it is operational and satisfactory to comply with the town
ordinance and shall further confirm at the time of inspection the existence of
financial responsibility. The annual inspection sticker must be displayed on
the front of the vehicle in a visible location.
   (B)   (1)   The use of a golf cart upon the streets and alleys of the town
is permitted pursuant to I.C. 21-1-3.3 et. seq. Golf cart means a four-wheeled
motor vehicle originally and specifically designed and intended to transport
one or more individuals and golf clubs, for the purpose of playing the game of
golf on a golf course.
      (2)   An off-road vehicle or all-terrain vehicle is defined under I.C.
14-8-2-233.5 and 14-8-2-5.7. This section does not apply to an electrical
personal assistive mobility device in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-0.5.
   (C)   A golf cart operated on the streets and alleys of the town shall at
all times display either a slow moving vehicle emblem in accordance with I.C.
9-21-9-3 or a red or amber flashing lamp.
   (D)   A golf cart or off-road vehicle operated on the streets and alleys of
the town shall at all times be operated by an individual who possesses a valid
state issued driver's license.
   (E)   No golf cart or off-road vehicle is to be driven or parked on any
sidewalk in the town.
   (F)   A person who violates this section shall receive a warning for the
first offense. A person who violates this section within a calendar year of the
warning shall be fined $250. A person who violates this section a subsequent
time within a calendar year of the warning or the subsequent offense shall be
fined the sum of $500. Each day of violation constitutes a separate violation.
   (G)   All fines collected pursuant to division (F) shall be deposited in the
general fund of the town.
(Ord. 050716 Amended, passed 7-15-16)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Signs at hazardous or congested places
   
72.02   Signs adjacent to school property or other designated places
   
72.03   Stopping, standing or parking on streets or alleys
   
72.04   Parallel standing or parking
   
72.05   Standing or parking to display, wash or repair vehicles
   
72.06   Areas where stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.07   Impoundment
§ 72.01 SIGNS AT HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When signs are erected upon approach to hazardous or congested places, no
vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in such
designated place.
(`95 Code, § 52.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Right of way at intersections, see I.C. 9-21-8-29, 9-21-8-30
§ 72.02 SIGNS ADJACENT TO SCHOOL PROPERTY OR OTHER DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, doctor’s office or like area, no vehicle owner
or operator shall park a vehicle or stand in such designated place.
(`95 Code, § 52.02)
§ 72.03 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING ON STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a
street or alley in a manner or under conditions as to leave available less than
ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic,
except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations,
traffic signs or signals or a police officer.
(`95 Code, § 52.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.04 PARALLEL STANDING OR PARKING.
   In places where and at hours when stopping for the loading of merchandise or
materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of merchandise or
materials may back into the curb to take or discharge loads.
(`95 Code, § 52.04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.05 STANDING OR PARKING TO DISPLAY, WASH OR REPAIR VEHICLES.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway
for the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or for washing, greasing or
repairing the vehicle for hire, except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(`95 Code, § 52.05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.06 AREAS WHERE STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   These parking practices shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Overtime parking;
      (2)   Left-sided parking, except where authorized;
      (3)   Parking within fire lanes;
      (4)   Parking on any existing sidewalk or on any designated sidewalk
area.
   (B)   No vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of
the following places:
      (1)   Within 30 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection constituting a
passenger bus stop on regularly operated bus routes within the town;
      (2)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of a U.S. postal service mail box;
      (4)   Parking in a restricted zone prohibited by yellow curbing;
      (5)   Within a designated handicap parking area, without displaying a
state-issued handicap placard.
   (C)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by him or her into any of
these prohibited areas.
(`95 Code, § 52.06) (Am. Ord. 040797B, passed 4-7-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer, when discovering a motorized and/or non-traditional
vehicle parked or kept standing unattended, or when it is attended and the
occupant or operator refuses, if able to do so, or fails to move it on request,
may remove the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle, or cause it to be
removed to a private storage area or placed authorized pursuant to contract,
where the motorized and/or non-traditional vehicle shall be impounded and
detained pursuant to Indiana law.
(Ord. 030920, passed 3- -20)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Inspection of bicycles
   
73.03   Rental agencies
   
73.04   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.05   Speed
   
73.06   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.07   Parking
   
73.08   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.09   Lamp required at night
   
73.10   Area restriction
   
73.11   Notice of violation
§ 73.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of these
provisions.
   (C)   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any
highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles subject to
those exceptions stated in this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 54.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02 INSPECTION OF BICYCLES.
   The Marshal, or officer assigned such responsibility, may inspect any
bicycle.
(`95 Code, § 54.02)
§ 73.03 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the
bicycle is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this
chapter.
(`95 Code, § 54.03)
§ 73.04 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
the sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to make any turn,
in which event the person shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
(`95 Code, § 54.05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is prudent under
the conditions then existing.
(`95 Code, § 54.06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from a street, alley, driveway or
building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across
any street or alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching
on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(`95 Code, § 54.07)
§ 73.07 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against
a building or at a curb in a manner causing the least obstruction to
pedestrians traffic.
(`95 Code, § 54.08)
§ 73.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the Central
Business District.
   (B)   The Council is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk in any
district, and when the signs are in place, no person shall disobey them.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
(`95 Code, § 54.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.09 LAMP REQUIRED AT NIGHT.
   Every bicycle operated on a public street or sidewalk from hour after sunset
until hour before sunrise shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting
a white light visible from a distance for at least 300 feet to the front.
(`95 Code, § 54.10) (Ord. 8-24-92, passed 8-24-92)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.10 AREA RESTRICTION.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks parallel to Main Street in
Shirley, Indiana, between Varner and South Streets.
(`95 Code, § 54.11) (Ord. 8-24-92, passed 8-24-92)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Marshal may issue a notice of violation of this chapter to any person
who does any act forbidden or fails to perform any act required by this chapter
and a copy of the notice shall be issued to the parent or guardian of the
person if under 18 years of age, providing for a time and place for inspection
thereafter by the Town Marshal of any bicycle owned, operated or in possession
or control of the person or the parent or guardian of the person.
(`95 Code, § 54.12)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop streets and stop signs
   
III.   Yield streets and yield signs
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit on all streets within the town will be set to
25 miles per hour except where noted below.
      (1)   On Main Street from Varner to South Street the speed limit will
remain 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   On Lee Road from Main Street to Liberty will remain 30 miles per
hour.
      (3)   On 2nd Street from South Railroad to South Street the speed limit
will remain ten miles per hour.
(`95 Code, § 51.01)
   (B)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing
limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason
of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with other persons, vehicles or other conveyances
on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty
of all persons to use due care.
(`95 Code, § 51.02)
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall not be construed to
relieve a plaintiff in any civil action from the burden of proving negligence
upon the part of the defendant as the proximate cause of an accident.
(`95 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 12-7-81, passed 12-7-81; Ord. 10-5-81, passed 10-5-
81; Ord. 070916-B, passed 7-9-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits and regulations, see I.C. 9-21-5-1 et seq.
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS AND STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   The following streets are either preferential streets or stop streets
as indicated in the following schedule:
Streets Designation/Regulation
Streets                                 Designation/Regulation
Any easterly or westerly street, alley  Before entering the intersection of the
or private drive, which street, alley   street, alley or private drive with
or private drive is intersected by Main Main Street, bring the vehicle to a
Street                                  complete stop and yield the right-of-
                                        way to vehicles using Main Street.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Center Street, proceeding east          the park access road and not proceed
                                        until safe to do so.
                                        Deemed a four-way stop intersection and
Center Street and First Street          all motorists and persons traveling on
intersection                            said streets and approaching said
                                        intersection shall stop at the
                                        intersection.
                                        Deemed a one-way stop for all traffic
                                        heading east on Center Street and all
Center Street and Second Street,        motorists and persons traveling east on
heading east                            Center Street approaching said
                                        intersection shall come to a complete
                                        stop.
                                        Deemed a four-way stop, and all
First Street and Walnut Street          motorists and persons traveling on
intersection                            Walnut Street and approaching said
                                        intersection shall stop.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
First Street, north and south           South Street and not proceed until it
                                        is safe to do so.
                                        Deemed a two-way stop for all traffic
Meridian Street heading northbound at   traveling north on Meridian and
the intersection of Walnut Street and   traveling west on Walnut Street, at
Meridian Street                         which point all traffic shall come to a
                                        complete stop.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Main Street, proceeding northbound      South Railroad Street and not proceed
                                        until safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Main Street, proceeding southbound      South Railroad Street and not proceed
                                        until safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Meridian Street, proceeding north       South Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Meridian Street, proceeding south       South Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
North Railroad Street, proceeding       Come to a complete stop before entering
eastbound                               Meridian Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
North Railroad Street, proceeding       Come to a complete stop before entering
westbound                               New Jersey Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
North Street, proceeding eastbound      Meridian Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
North Street, proceeding westbound      Meridian Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
                                        Deemed a four-way stop intersection and
South Railroad Street and Main Street   all motorists and persons traveling on
intersection                            said streets and approaching said
                                        intersection shall stop at said
                                        intersection.
South Railroad Street, proceeding       Come to a complete stop before entering
eastbound                               Main Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Meridian Street and not proceed until
South Railroad Street, proceeding       safe to do so.
westbound                               Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Main Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Deemed a two-way stop and all motorists
                                        and persons traveling on South Street
South Street at the intersection of     and approaching the intersection at
Main Street                             Main Street shall stop on South Street
                                        with traffic on Main Street having the
                                        right-of-way as a through street.
                                        Deemed a four-way stop intersection and
South Street and White Street           all motorists and persons traveling on
intersection                            said streets and approaching said
                                        intersection shall stop at said
                                        intersection.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
South Street, east and west             First Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
South Street heading eastbound at the   At the intersection of South Street and
intersection of South Street and 2nd    2nd Street will be a two- way stop at
Street southbound                       which point all traffic shall come to a
                                        complete stop.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Meridian Street and not proceed until
South Street, proceeding east           safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Main Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Meridian Street and not proceed until
South Street, proceeding west           safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
                                        Main Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Deemed a two-way stop and all motorists
Walnut Street and First Street          and persons traveling on First Street
intersection                            and approaching the intersection shall
                                        stop at the intersection.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Walnut Street, proceeding east          White Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
Walnut Street, proceeding west          White Street and not proceed until safe
                                        to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
White Street, proceeding north          Walnut Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
                                        Come to a complete stop before entering
White Street, proceeding south          Walnut Street and not proceed until
                                        safe to do so.
 
   (B)   The streets where stop signs are required are shown on the Traffic Map
(Map 2).
(`95 Code, §§ 56.01 and 56.02) (Ord. 56-9, passed 5-7-56; Ord. 56-10, passed 5-
7-56; Ord. 1-79, passed 8-4-79; Ord. 3-79, passed 10-6-79; Ord. 4-7-80, passed
4-7-80; Ord. 7-2-84, passed 7-2-84; Ord. 8-5-85, passed 8-8-85; Ord. 11-4-85,
passed 11-7-85; Ord. 11-6-86-2, passed 11-6-89; Ord. 3-5-90, passed 3-5-90; Am.
Ord. 2001, passed 3-3-01; Am. Ord. 050501, passed 5-5-01; Am. Ord. 040602,
passed 4-6-02; Am. Ord. 060506, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord. 121813A, passed 12-18-
13; Am. Ord. 051120, passed 5-11-20)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III: YIELD STREETS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   Yield signs shall be installed at the following locations:
   (A)   At the corner of Half Street and White Street.
(Ord. 060414-A, passed 7-15-16)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking zones
   
II.   Limited parking zones
   
III.   Heavy truck parking
   
IV.   Handicap parking
SCHEDULE I. NO-PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall park in the following locations:
Street Location
Street                            Location
Any street in the town on which street a sign has been erected designating the
curb area 25 feet from the sign as a no parking zone.
                                  Beginning at North Railroad Street and
First Street                      extending to Varner Street, such area to be
                                  specifically delineated by signs
                                  appropriately lettered.
Main Street, east side            Between South Railroad Street and North
                                  Railroad Street*
                                  Beginning at Center and extending south to
Main Street, east side            the municipal building, such area to be
                                  specifically delineated by signs
                                  appropriately lettered.
Main Street, east side            In front of the Henry County Bank and in the
                                 area extending 30 feet north of the first
                                  alley north of the bank.
South Railroad Street, both sides From Delaware Street to Main Street
*   The Town Marshal or any police officer is authorized to permit removal
and/or towing, at the owner’s expense, of any vehicle illegally parking in
violation of this requirement.
 
(`95 Code, Chapter 55, Sch. I) (Ord. 56-11, passed 5-7-56; Ord. 3-73, passed 4-
2-73; Ord. 2-7-77, passed 2-7-77; Ord. 4-7-1977, passed 9-7-77; Ord. 94623,
passed 6-23-94)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The following are designated as limited parking zones:
 
Street       Location                                             Limitation
                                                                  Unlawful to
                                                                  park on this
                                                                  portion for
             Beginning at Center Street and extending             over 15
Main Street  approximately to the Town Hall, such area to be      minutes
             specifically delineated by signs appropriately       between 8:00
             lettered.                                            a.m. and 5:00
                                                                  p.m. Monday
                                                                  through
                                                                  Saturday.
                                                                  20-minute
                                                                  parking
             Between the two signs in front of Nonnie’s Pizza & between the
Main Street  Chicken                                              hours of 5:00
                                                                  p.m. to 10:00
                                                                  p.m. every
                                                                  day.
                                                                  No commercial
                                                                  vehicles,
Main Street,                                                      motor homes
east side    From South Street to Varner Street                   or trailers
                                                                  from 8:00
                                                                  a.m. to 8:00
                                                                  p.m.
Main Street, In front of Star Financial Bank, 310 Main Street     20-minute
east side                                                         parking.
                                                                  No commercial
                                                                  vehicles,
Main Street,                                                      motor homes
west side    From Lee Street to Half Street                       or trailers
                                                                  from 8:00
                                                                  a.m. to 8:00
                                                                  p.m.
 
   (B)   Two handicapped spaces shall be permitted on the west side of Main
Street beginning 20 feet south from the intersection of South Railroad Street
and Main Street extending two spaces properly marked for handicapped parking at
any and all times.
(`95 Code, Chapter 55, Sch. II) (Ord. 76-1, passed 3-22-76; Ord. 3-7-88, passed
3-7-88; Am. Ord. 060201, passed 6-2-01; Am. Ord. 030302, passed 3-3-01; Am.
Ord. 020314, passed 2-3-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. HEAVY TRUCK PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or operate a truck or other
vehicle having a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, by its
manufacturer’s rating, any semi-tractor motor vehicle or semi-trailer on any
public street, alley, public parking lot or public park in the town except for
the length of time necessary for the expeditious transporting and loading or
unloading of materials.
(`95 Code, Chapter 55, Sch. III) (Ord. 5-1-89, passed 5-1-89)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or operate any vehicle in
any location designated and marked by the appropriate sign as a handicap
parking space within the incorporated area of the town, unless the vehicle
bears the appropriate documentation designating it as a vehicle operated by one
with a handicap. Any person violating this requirement of the code shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine as determined by §
70.99.
   (B)   Handicapped spaces shall be permitted at the following locations:
      (1)   Two handicapped spaces on the east side of Main Street beginning
120 feet south from the intersection of South Railroad Street and Main Street
extending two spaces properly marked for handicapped parking at any and all
times.
(Ord. 100796, passed 10-7-96; Ord. 020219, passed 2-2-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   TREES AND SHRUBS
   
91.   EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS AND RETAIL FOOD MARKETS
   
92.   UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
   
93.   ANIMALS
   
94.   NUISANCES
   
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
90.01   Planting of new life
§ 90.01 PLANTING OF NEW LIFE.
   The planting of new plant life of any nature other than grass between the
sidewalks and curbs at any location within the confines of the town is
prohibited from March 6, 1989 onward.
(`95 Code, § 65.03) (Ord. 3-6-89, passed 3-6-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS AND RETAIL FOOD MARKETS
Section
   
91.01   Controlling eating and drinking establishments
   
91.02   Controlling retail food markets
   
91.03   Ordinances adopted by reference; copies on file
§ 91.01 CONTROLLING EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   For the purpose of controlling eating and drinking establishments in the
Town of Shirley, the town adopts the provisions of the Hancock County eating
and drinking establishment ordinance, which ordinance is entitled: “An
Ordinance Defining Restaurant, Food, Itinerant Restaurant, Employee, Utensil,
Health Officer and Other Items; Requiring Permits, Licenses, License Fees for
the Operation of Restaurants and Itinerant Restaurants; Prohibiting the Sale of
Adulterated, Unwholesome or Misbranded Food; Regulating the Inspection of
Restaurants and Itinerant Restaurants; Providing for the Enforcement of this
Ordinance; and Fixing Penalties.”
(`95 Code, § 64.01)
§ 91.02 CONTROLLING RETAIL FOOD MARKETS.
   For the purpose of controlling retail food markets in Shirley, the town
adopts the provisions of the Hancock County retail food market ordinance, which
ordinance is entitled: “An Ordinance Defining Food Market, Food, Employee,
Utensil, Person, Health Officer and Other Items; Requiring Permits, Licenses,
License Fees for the Operation of Such Establishments; Prohibiting the Sale of
Adulterated, Unwholesome or Misbranded Food; Regulating the Inspection of such
Establishments; Providing for the Enforcement of this Ordinance; and Fixing
Penalties.”
(`95 Code, § 64.02)
§ 91.03 ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; COPIES ON FILE.
   (A)   The town adopts and incorporates by reference the Hancock County
Eating and Drinking Establishment Ordinance and the Hancock County Retail Food
Market Ordinance and the provisions of such ordinances shall hereafter apply to
the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
(`95 Code, § 64.03)
   (B)   At least two certified copies of the Hancock County Eating and
Drinking Establishment Ordinance and two copies of the Hancock County Food
Market Ordinance and two copies of the Indiana State Board of Health
Regulations HFD 17 and 19 shall be on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(`95 Code, § 64.04) (Ord. 1-7-61, passed 1-7-91)
CHAPTER 92: UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Enforcement Office established
   
92.03   Responsibility of governmental agencies for government property
   
92.04   Responsibility of owners of private property
   
92.05   What constitutes unwholesome environmental conditions
   
92.06   Nuisance declared; remedies
   
92.07   Responsibility for causing abatement
   
92.08   Preliminary notice of violation
   
92.09   Formal notice of violation
   
92.10   Failure to abate after notice
   
92.11   Procedural and labor charges
   
92.12   Lien
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY. Private or governmental property which is the cultivated
portion of land used for commercial or domestic agriculture or horticulture, a
natural or developed wooded area or land subject to federal government programs
or subsidy because of retirement or agricultural production.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate which is owned, leased, controlled or
occupied by the United States, the State of Indiana, Hancock County, Henry
County or the Town of Shirley or any departments or agencies thereof.
   OCCUPANT. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, business
trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious or
charitable organization or any owner, person, persons or entities who are from
time to time in possession or exercising dominion and control over any house or
other structure located on private property.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate,
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the Brown Township or Greensboro Township Assessor’s office as the case may
be; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the town, except real estate that
is owned, leased, controlled or occupied by the United States, the State of
Indiana, Hancock County, Henry County, the Town of Shirley or any departments
or agencies thereof.
(`95 Code, § 61.01)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The Town Marshal is authorized and directed to establish and maintain an
office of environmental enforcement whose powers and duties shall include
but not be limited to determining and causing to be abated any public nuisance
which constitutes an unwholesome environmental condition as herein defined.
(`95 Code, § 61.02)
§ 92.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES FOR GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY.
   Each department or agency of the United States, the State of Indiana,
Hancock County, Henry County and the town shall regularly and adequately remove
or cause to be removed from governmental property any public nuisance or
unwholesome environmental condition as that term is herein defined.
(`95 Code, § 61.03)
§ 92.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All owners, lessees or occupants or other persons in control of any private
property in the town shall regularly and adequately remove or cause to be
removed from such property any public nuisance or unwholesome environmental
condition as that term is herein defined.
(`95 Code, § 61.04)
§ 92.05 WHAT CONSTITUTES UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION exists on private or
governmental property whenever any vegetation growing on such property, or
easement appurtenant thereto, is abandoned, neglected, disregarded or not cut,
mown or otherwise removed and which has attained a height  of 12 inches or more
or violates any valid law, ordinance or regulation of the State of Indiana,
Hancock County, Henry County, the Town of Shirley or any departments or
agencies thereof.
   (B)   An UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION also exists whenever any
vegetation exists on private property in close proximity to any governmental
property or governmental right-of-way or easement which, because of its
location, size or condition, interferes with the public safety or lawful use of
such property, right-of-way or easement or is in violation of any law of the
State of Indiana or any ordinance of the town or any regulation of any of its
departments or agencies. Specifically, the owner or person in control of any
lot or parcel of land in the town, upon which any tree, shrub, vine or plant
may be standing adjacent to any public way shall trim or cause to be trimmed
either at the property line or to a clear height of at least eight feet above
the surface of such public way all branches thereof which overhang any portion
of such public way or which obstruct or interfere with the passage of light
from any street lighting system and shall not plant or maintain any thereof so
close to any property line as to obstruct thereby the vision of travelers along
the streets. The town, or its contractual agent, may enter upon any such
private premises to do such trimming, as it determines to be necessary, or to
remove any such obstruction herein prohibited. The owner shall remove from such
tree, shrub, vine or plant all dead, decayed,  unsightly, broken or dangerous
limbs and branches that overhang or are close to the public way; when any such
tree, shrub, vine or plant is dead, the owner shall completely remove the same.
   (C)   An UNWHOLESOME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION exists whenever any private
property, governmental property, right-of-way or easement is abandoned,
neglected or disregarded so as to permit the same to become a health hazard or
nuisance, with an accumulation of litter or waste thereon, including but not
solely limited to wastepaper, rags, cans, bottles, boxes, lumber, metal,
garbage, disused or inoperable motor vehicles, trailers or any other machinery,
appliances or furniture thereon, unless specifically authorized under existing
laws and regulations.
(`95 Code, § 61.05)
§ 92.06 NUISANCE DECLARED; REMEDIES. 
   Any unwholesome environmental condition is declared a public nuisance, and
the town may proceed against such nuisance in accordance with the remedies
provided in this chapter, by initiation of a criminal action in any court of
competent jurisdiction or by pursuance of any other remedy authorized by law.
(`95 Code, § 61.06)
§ 92.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CAUSING ABATEMENT.
   The Town Council (hereinafter referred to as “responsible party”) upon
determining the existence of an unwholesome environmental condition shall cause
appropriate action to be taken for the abatement of such condition.
(`95 Code, § 61.07)
§ 92.08 PRELIMINARY NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the unwholesome environmental condition exists upon private or
governmental property which is occupied, the responsible party may give a
preliminary notice to the owner or occupant thereof, either verbally or by
posting the notice upon such property. The preliminary notice shall state the
nature of the alleged unwholesome environmental condition, the action deemed
necessary to correct the condition and fix a date not sooner than calendar
weeks thereafter, when the property will be reinspected to determine if
compliance has been effected. If, upon reinspection in accordance with the
preliminary notice, it is determined that the unwholesome environmental
condition has been corrected, the owner or occupant shall not be liable for any
charges by reason of the preliminary notice procedure.
(`95 Code, § 61.08)
§ 92.09 FORMAL NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the unwholesome environmental condition is not corrected as a result of
the preliminary notice, no preliminary notice is given or the condition exists
on a vacant lot or unoccupied improved real estate, the responsible party shall
be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the owner at
his or her last and usual place of residence as determined either by resort to
the most recent edition of the respective County Directory or the records of
the Brown Township or Greensboro Township Assessor’s office, as the case may
be. The notice shall state the nature of the unwholesome environmental
condition, describe the real estate upon which the condition exists, demand the
abatement of the condition and set a date upon which the condition exists,
demand the abatement of the condition and set a date not sooner than two
calendar weeks after the date of such notice, when the property will be
reinspected to ascertain if abatement has been effected. If the certified mail
is not returned within 30 calendar days or if the address of the owner is
unknown and cannot be ascertained upon due diligence, it shall be sufficient to
give notice to any offending owner by publication, once in a newspaper of
general circulation in Hancock County, or Henry County, as the case may be. The
owner(s) shall have ten calendar days from the date of such published notice to
abate the offending condition.
(`95 Code, § 61.09)
§ 92.10 FAILURE TO ABATE AFTER NOTICE.
   If, upon reinspection of the offending real estate and after the elapse of
the ten-day notice period, it is determined by the responsible party that
abatement has not occurred, the responsible party, or its contractual agent,
shall enter upon such private or governmental property and abate the offending
condition.
(`95 Code, § 61.10)
§ 92.11 PROCEDURAL AND LABOR CHARGES.
   For its services rendered to any owner or owners in the enforcement of this
chapter, the owner or owners shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all sums expended
by the town related to the enforcement of this chapter against any owner and/or
owners.
(`95 Code, § 61.11)
§ 92.12 LIEN.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of the first performance by the
responsible party of any act or service for any owner or owners in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter, the Town Council shall have a lien upon
the offending private property to the full extent of the value of the ace or
acts performed, or the services rendered, or both, in accordance with the fee
schedule set forth in § 92.11.
   (B)   The liens shall be perfected in the manner following:
      (1)   By the adoption by the Town Council at any regular or special
meeting thereof of an assessment resolution which shall give the name of the
owner or owners, a description of the offending private property and the amount
of the charges being assessed;
      (B)   The certification of such assessment resolution to the auditor of
Hancock County, or Henry County, as the case may be, who by special assessment
shall cause the amount thereof to be placed on a tax duplicate for the
offending private property subject to collection as in the nature of an
additional or supplemental real property tax;
      (3)   Contemporaneously with certification of the assessment resolution
to the respective county auditor, the responsible party may additionally elect
to render a written statement of the amount due to each offending owner.
(`95 Code, § 61.12)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The failure of any owner, person, officer or agent of a corporation in
charge or control of the property to remove any unwholesome environmental
condition may be punished upon conviction by a fine as determined by § 10.99.
(`95 Code, § 61.99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   [Reserved]
   
93.03   Restraint
   
93.04   Animal care
   
93.05   Rabies control
   
93.06   Impoundment
   
93.07   Enforcement, fines and penalties
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of termination of his or her ownership, but without vesting
possession in any other person. The failure to make adequate provision of food,
water and shelter shall be prima facie evidence of abandonment.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person who has been employed or designated as
such by the Town Council.
   ANIMAL SHELTER - ANIMAL POUND. Any facility operated by a humane society or
town agency, or its authorized agents, or operated under contract or agreement
with the Town Council for purpose of impounding or caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner while not under the control of the
owner or other person by leash, cord, chain or other device of actual physical
restraint or under the control of the accompanying owner or other person who
has the ability to control the dog or cat by voice command.
   BIRDS OF PREY. Members of the Accipitridae, Aquila, Haliaeetus,
Falconiformes, Accipiter and Buteo family.
   DANGEROUS. Able to apt to harm.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Cattle, livestock and poultry, including but not limited
to, bulls, cows, calves, horses, mares, geldings, fillies, foals, mules, asses,
oxen, swine, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys and any animal or bird of the
bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, procine or avine species except as is
specifically exempted from this chapter as set forth in the definition for
exotic animals.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is not found naturally in the wilds of the
State of Indiana. However, the definition of an exotic animal does not include
the following: parrots, parakeets (Budgerigars), canaries, finches, cockatiels
and love birds.
   HUMANE TRAPS. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal. Snares, leg traps or similar devices are considered inhumane
and shall not be used.
   IDENTIFIED COMPLAINT. A complaint in which the identity of the complainant
is known to the Animal Control Officer and whose identity will not be made
public but held confidential.
   KENNEL. Any facility wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   NUISANCE. Any one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other moving vehicles on the street or
sidewalks or any other public area of the city;
      (2)   A condition which arises by a dog, cat or other animal destroying,
defacing or damaging shrubbery, lawns or flowers which result in the general
nuisance of citizens in the neighborhood where such dog, cat or other animals
are harbored;
      (3)   A condition which arises by a dog barking consistently so as to
disturb the peace of the neighborhood;
      (4)   A condition which arises from the accumulation of animal excreta on
the property of the owner, public or any other citizen so as to cause an
obnoxious odor, create a situation which could draw or breed insects, attract
vermin or cause a health nuisance;
   OFFICIAL WARNING. A written notice or warning based upon an identified
complaint and given to the owner of a dog, cat or other Animal Control Officer.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog, cat or other animal
for a period of 48 hours or longer.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, corporation or any other business entity
other than a licensed kennel that buys or sells any species of animal.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more dogs, cats or other animals at large
together, which, by repeated or continual presence, constitute a physical
danger to a neighborhood, livestock, personal or real property.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has been known to have bitten or otherwise
physically molested or inflicted a personal injury upon a human being without
provocation; an animal who promiscuously
attacks other animals; or any animal otherwise defined in the Indiana Code.
   WARM-BLOODED ANIMAL. Any animal that maintains a constant body temperature;
all mammals, including dogs, cats and rabbits.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96; Ord. 20170107, passed 1-7-17)
§ 93.02 [RESERVED].
§ 93.03 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Dog/cat at large. It shall be unlawful for an owner or person having
custody or control of any animal to allow such animal to repeatedly run at
large through out the town so as to create a public nuisance.
   (B)   Enclosure of animal in heat. All owners or persons having custody or
control shall confine within a completely enclosed building or secure enclosure
with no means of escape any dog, cat or other animal when in heat or rutting.
   (C)   Enclosure of vicious animal. Every vicious animal shall be confined by
its owner or person having custody or control of such animal within a
completely enclosed building or secure enclosure with no means of escape and
shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of its owner or
person having custody of such animal.
   (D)   Annoyance or disturbance created by animal. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or harbor within the town an animal that creates a nuisance
or which by loud, frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping causes
annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood.
   (E)   Enclosure of suspected rabid animal. All owners or persons having
custody of such animal shall
confine within a completely enclosed building or secure enclosure with no means
of escape, or as otherwise directed by the County Health Department, any warm-
blooded animal which has bitten, scratched or caused an abrasion of the skin of
any human being or any warm-blooded animal that is known or suspected of being
rabid, in accordance with the provision of § 93.05(D).
   (F)   Trespassing of animal and controller. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or person then having custody or control of any dog, cat or other animal
to enter upon the private property of another person without consent.
   (G)   Damage or injury to person or property. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or person having custody or control of any dog, cat or other animal to
allow such dog, cat or other animal to scratch, bite or otherwise injure any
person or other animal or to cause any damage or injury to the person or real
property of another person.
   (H)   Keeping Dangerous reptiles and animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain or have in his or her possession, or under his or her
control within the town, any such dangerous reptiles, exotic animals and birds
of prey. It shall be unlawful for any person to display or walk about with any
type of snake, birds of prey, dangerous reptiles and exotic animals in a public
place.
   (I)   Domestic animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
lessee or occupant of any grounds, premises or property within the corporate
limits of the Town of Shirley to keep, harbor, maintain, raise or breed any
domestic animal or animals within the corporate limits of the town.
   (J)   Slaughtering of domestic animals. It shall be unlawful for a person to
slaughter any domestic animal in the open or to slaughter domestic animals in
any building which does not meet the requirements specified by state law or by
rules and regulations established by the Indiana State Board of Health.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Provision of care. No owner or person having custody of such animal
shall fail to provide his or her animal with sufficient and wholesome food and
water, protection from the weather and reasonable care, including veterinary
treatment, as may be necessary to prevent suffering. This division shall also
apply to animals kept at an animal shelter operated by Animal Control, a humane
society or by anyone in the town.
   (B)   Classification of a kennel. Any more than two animals per residence
will constitute the need for a kennel. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or maintain a kennel at a residence or in a residential area. Kennels are
permitted in certain circumstances by the Hancock County Zoning Ordinance and
anyone desiring to maintain a kennel operation will need to receive the
necessary permits for the Hancock County Board of Zoning Appeals. The user fee
for a kennel is $100. A kennel must comply with Federal Register 9 (CFR Part 2)
February 15, 1991, Animal Welfare.
   (C)   Ill treatment. No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment,
overload, overwork or otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate or permit a
dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals and humans.
   (D)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having
custody of such animal of any dog, cat or other animal to abandon the same
within the town.
   (E)   Public disposal of poison liable to be possibly consumed by animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any poisonous substance
in any area of the roads, parks, common yards or other places, whether public
or private, within the town so that the same shall be liable to be consumed by
any animal.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96; Ord. 20170107, passed 1-7-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Reporting of animal bite. Every person, including veterinarians, who
know, learn or suspect that a warm-blooded animal has bitten, scratched or
caused an abrasion of the skin of any human being shall immediately report that
fact to the County Health Department. All reports must be submitted on a form
approved by the County Health Department entitled “Animal Bite Report.” Upon
receipt of an Animal Bite Report, the County Health Department and/or the
Animal Control Officer shall immediately contact the owner or person having
control of such animal and determine whether or not the animal is being
confined as required by this code.
   (B)   Reporting of suspected rabid animal. Every person, including
veterinarians, who discover or suspect that a warm-blooded animal has rabies
shall immediately report such facts to the County Health Department and/or the
Animal Control Officer, the name and address of the owner or person having
control of such animal and the license number, if any, of the animal.
   (C)   Confinement of suspected rabid animal. Any warm-blooded animal which
has bitten, scratched or caused an abrasion of the skin of any human being and
warm-blooded animal that is known or suspected of being rabid shall be confined
for a period of not less than ten days. All animals which are required to be
confined shall be confined in a completely enclosed building or secure
enclosure with no means of escape. If the owner or person having control of
such animal cannot confine the animal in such a manner, then the animal will be
confined in an appropriate Animal Shelter. The owner or person having custody
of any animal so confined shall be responsible for the cost of confinement.
   (D)   Confinement of suspected rabid animal of unknown owner. If a warm-
blooded animal has bitten a human being or is known or suspected of being rabid
and its owner or person having custody of such animal is unknown or refuses to
confine the animal as required herein, then the animal shall be confined at an
Animal Shelter or destroyed. The owner or person having custody of such animal,
if known, or later found to be known, of any animal so confined shall be
responsible for the cost of confinement.
   (E)   Sale or transfer of suspected rabid animal. It shall be unlawful for
the owner or person having custody of any warm-blooded animal, when notified
that such animal has bitten, scratched or caused an abrasion of the skin of any
human being or when notified by any person that such animal is suspected of
being rabid, to sell, give away, allow to escape or be taken beyond the limits
of the town boundary, but it shall be the duty of the owner or person having
custody of such animal upon receiving such notice to confine the animal for at
least ten days as set forth herein.
   (F)   Release from quarantine. After the expiration of at least ten days of
confinement and after the County Health Department determines that the animal
is no longer suspected of being rabid, the animal may be released from
confinement. The owner or person having custody of such animal is responsible
for the cost of the quarantine confinement.
   (G)   Extermination of rabid animal. If it should be determined that an
animal is rabid, then it shall be killed by a licensed veterinarian. The head
of the animal is to be removed and transported to the State Board of Health.
The cost of removal of the head and transportation of the head shall be the
responsibility of the owner or person having custody of such animal. If the
owner or person having custody of such animal is unknown or refuses to pay the
cost of removal and transportation of the head, then the Township Trustee shall
be responsible for these costs.
   (H)   Death of animal during confinement. If any animal shall die while
being confined as required by this section, the head of the animal shall be
removed by a veterinarian or the Animal Control Officer and transported to the
State Board of Health. The cost of removal of the head and transportation of
the head shall be the responsibility of the owner or person having custody of
such animal. If the owner or person having custody of such animal refuses to
pay the cost of the removal and transportation of the head, and the animal is a
dog, then the Township Trustee shall be responsible for these costs.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.06 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Cause for impoundment. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Officer to apprehend and impound in such animal shelter any dog, cat or any
other animal found doing any of the following acts or being kept or maintained
in any of the following conditions, unless provided herein:
      (1)   Running at large, not conforming to §
93.03(A);
      (2)   Not confined, as provided in §
93.03(B), (C) and (E);
      (3)   Kept in violation of §
93.03(A) and §
93.04(B);
      (4)   Abandoned, as provided in §
93.04(D);
      (5)   Entering private property causing injury to person or property in
violation of §
93.03(F) and (G);
      (6)   Upon the verified written complaint made to the Animal Control
Officer of a violation of this chapter;
      (7)   Upon order of the court following a conviction of any person for
violation or violating any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Official warning in lieu of impoundment. The provisions above
notwithstanding, in lieu of impounding any animal under division (A) of this
section, the Animal Control Officer may issue an official warning to the owner
or person having custody of such dog, cat or other animal.
   (C)   Notification of impoundment. Not later than 48 hours after the
impounding of any dog, cat or other animal, except if such impoundment is by
reason of subsection (A)(8), the caretaker of the animal shelter shall notify
the owner or person having custody of such animal, if known, by ordinary United
States Mail or by telephone of such impoundment and the reason thereof. In the
event that the owner is unknown, no notification will be deemed necessary.
   (D)   Notification and redemption of impounded animal. At the time of giving
notice to the owner or person having custody of an impounded dog, cat or other
animal such owner or person having custody of such animal shall also be
notified whether such dog, cat or other animal may be reclaimed and redeemed.
The decision as to whether an impounded dog, cat or other animal may be
redeemed by the Animal Control Officer is such officer’s sole discretion giving
due consideration to the reason for the impounding.
   (E)   Fees for redemption of impounded animal. An owner or person having
custody of an impounded dog, cat or other animal, who has been notified that
such dog, cat or other animal may be reclaimed and redeemed, may reclaim and
redeem the same upon payment of the following fees and upon fulfillment of the
following obligations:
      (1)   If the dog, cat or other animal has been picked up or captured by a
town employee, police person or other authorized agent of the town, the owner
or person having custody of such animal shall pay a redemption fee as provided
by the schedule per the Hancock County Animal Control Authority, except for the
case in which the impounded animal is female and is in heat that has not been
restrained in accordance with § 93.03(B), in which case the owner or person
having custody of such animal shall pay a redemption fee as provided;
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no dog or cat
impounded shall be released if such dog or cat has not been registered,
licensed and tagged as provided in this chapter and by Indiana law, until such
requirements have been satisfied. In addition, if the impounded dog or cat is
not required to be licensed, before the dog or cat shall be released, the owner
or person having custody of such animal shall have the dog or cat inoculated
against rabies and certify the same to the Animal Control Officer.
   (F)   Licensed Tagged or Redeemed. All dogs, cats or other animals impounded
under this code and not registered, licensed, tagged and redeemed shall be
disposed of in a humane manner after the expiration of the following time
periods according to County Animal Control Guidelines:
      (1)   Three days after notice is given to the owner or person having
custody of such animal as required under division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Five days after impoundment when the owner or person having custody
of such animal is unknown;
      (3)   After the animal has been impounded for the third time within a 12-
month period; or
      (4)   At the time fixed by the court under division (A) of this section;
provided, however, that the dog, cat or other animal which appears to be
suffering from mange or other infectious or contagious disease, except rabies,
may be disposed of immediately upon impoundment. Any animal destroyed which is
believed to be suffering from mange or other infectious disease shall be
forthwith reported by the Animal Control Officer. All animals believed to be
suffering from rabies shall be handled in the manner specified in § 93.05.
   (G)   Extermination of vicious animals. Whenever the Animal Control
Department shall find any dog, cat or other animal running in packs, vicious or
in such condition as to be too dangerous to capture, then the Animal Control
Officer is authorized to dispose of the animal where it may be found.
   (H)   Prohibition of experimentation on impounded animals. No impounded
animal shall be sold or given to any person, procurer or agent for the purpose
of experimentation.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96; Ord. 20170107, passed 1-7-17)
§ 93.07 ENFORCEMENT, FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Animal Control Officer and authorized members of this
Department will have the full and unrestricted authority to enforce this
chapter.
   (B)   Interference with official. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
interfere with the Animal Control Officer or any member of the Animal Control
Department in performance of his or her duties thereunder, punishable in
accordance with § 93.99.
   (C)   Record of impounded animals. The Animal Control Officer shall keep a
record of all dogs, cats or other animals impounded in the Animal Shelter,
which record shall show the date of impoundment, the reason thereof, name of
the person bringing the animal to the pound and the kind, sex, color, breed and
any identifying collars, tags, tattoos or marks of the animal impounded.
   (D)   Official warning and notice of code violation. Upon information
sufficient to establish a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
Animal Control Officer or authorized deputy may issue to the person committing
such violation or to the owner or person having custody or control of any
animal involved either:
      (1)   An official warning stating the name of the person to whom the
warning is being issued, the nature of the violation, the date of the violation
and any other pertinent information concerning the violation. Such official
warning shall also state that it is only a warning and is neither a notice of
code violation nor a notice to appear to answer to any such violation; or
      (2)   A notice of code violation stating the name of the person to whom
the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the fine imposed for
such violation in accord with § 93.99, the specific section of this code which
has been violated and any other information which is pertinent to the violation
and necessary for a through understanding of the circumstances surrounding such
violation. Such violation notice shall instruct the person to whom the
violation is being issued that he or she shall appear at the Hancock Superior
Court II to answer to such violation.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fine.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter within five
days of the date of the notice of the chapter violation, such violator shall
pay a fine as follows:
 
Violation          Fine
Section/Subsection As Provided by Indiana Law
93.03(A)           $50
93.03(B)           $100
93.03(C)           $100
93.03(D)           $50
93.03(E)           $100
93.03(F)           $50
93.03(G)           $50
93.04(A)           $100
93.04(B)           $50
93.04(C)           $200
93.04(E)           $50
93.05              $50
 
      (2)   The fines will be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
transferred to the General Fund.
   (B)   Failure to pay fines. If a violator fails to pay fines or appear at
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office within five days of the date of notice of code
violation, such violation may be filed with the Superior Courts, and such
violator may be summoned to appear before such court.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, other
than the licensing provision of § 93.02 or the sections listed in division (A)
of this section, upon conviction or a plea of guilty in any of the Hancock
County Superior Courts, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500. If any
violation by continuing each day violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, unless otherwise provided by law.
   (D)   Restitution.
      (1)   In addition to the fines set forth herein, any person who violates
the provisions of § 93.03(G) shall make full restitution for any damages or
injury to persons or property as a result of such violation, including, but not
limited to, medical expenses, the value of any real or personal property which
has been destroyed or the cost of repairing any damage to real or personal
property.
      (2)   In addition to any fine or penalty set forth above, if a violation
must be prosecuted through Hancock Superior Court II, the violator, upon
conviction, shall pay reasonable attorney fees and court costs as determined by
the court.
(Ord. 070196B, passed 7-1-96; Ord. 20170107, passed 1-7-17)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Jurisdiction
   
94.03   Definitions; exclusions
   
94.04   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
94.05   Filing complaint
   
94.06   Notice of violations
   
94.07   Appeals
   
94.08   Abatement by town
   
94.09   Liability
Noise
   
94.20   Scope
   
94.21   Definitions
   
94.22   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
94.23   Prohibited acts
   
94.24   Prohibited noise
   
94.25   Exemptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
WEEDS
§ 94.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
§ 94.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits of
the town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the town executives, or Town
Council in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.  
         (a)   Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass, sorghum, alum [such as
allium], bur cucumber, and shattercane.
         (b)   RANK VEGETATION is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants.
         (c)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 94.04 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 94.05 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Councilmember of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 94.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the town executives shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the executives regarding the
condition. The executive of  the town, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner and/or
the person occupying the property as that information is contained within the
records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. Such notice shall
be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within
seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the
property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk- Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 94.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the executive within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the executives. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Common
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Councilmembers in
attendance and such being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
Common Council.
§ 94.08 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal,  the town
executives may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 94.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the town uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
NOISE
§ 94.20 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the control of all noise
within the town limits, as it now exists or may hereafter be established.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine, and designed to
be driven or used  on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to: automobiles, vans, trucks, motorcycles, motor
scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, minibikes,
and trail bikes.
   PERSON.  Any individual, association, partnership, joint venture, or
corporation which includes any officer, and employee, department, agency or
instrumentality thereof.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.22 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person to make any
loud, raucous, improper, unreasonable, offensive or unusual noise, disorder or
tumult, which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others within the city, or to permit such noise, disorder or
tumult to be made in or about his or her house or premises, and the same is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, manager, agent
or operator of any property, structure, vehicle, or business in the city, to
prevent persons using property under their control from violating this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.23 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts, uses or noises, among others, subject to specific
exemptions, are declared to be loud, raucous or disturbing noises in violation
of this subchapter. Such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at
any time with louder
volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the
room, vehicle or property in which such machine or device is operated and who
is a voluntary listener.
   (B)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing of sound which is cast
upon other properties including the public right-of-way for the purpose of
commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity, performance,
sale, place or structure.
   (C)   Using, operating or permitting the use of operation of any machine,
instrument or device capable of producing or reproducing any sound on any
public transportation vehicle.
   (D)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound on any public
right-of-way adjacent to any school, institution of higher learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution, or which unduly disturbs
patients in the hospital.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.24 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated,
any machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, if it is
located in or on any of the following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare, if the sound generated is audible at
a distance of 30 feet from its source.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway, or public space
if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from the device
producing the sound.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.25 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions shall not be permitted within any duly established “Quiet Zone”
when such zone is designated by appropriate signage. The following shall be
exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property, providing the cause for such alarm or
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time.
   (D)   Celebrations on Halloween and legal holidays.
   (E)   Permitted parades or festivals.
   (F)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related to them.
   (G)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work.
   (H)   Sounds associated with the normal conduction of a legally established
nontransient business within the normal range appropriate for such use.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is set forth shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§ 94.20 through 94.25 of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined a sum of not less than $175
for the first offense, a sum of not less than $275 for the second offense, and
a sum of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Obstruction of streets
   
95.02   Planting shade and ornamental trees
Cutting Public Right-of-Way
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Cutting the street opening
   
95.22   Backfilling
   
95.23   Replacing pavement and base
   
95.24   Curbing
   
95.25   Encroachment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street or alley of
the town by building a fence or fences or by placing a gate or gates across it
or to obstruct any street or alley of the town in any manner whatever without
the express written consent of the Town Council. There shall be no encroachment
on rights-of-way.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating this section shall, on conviction, be
fined in a sum determined by § 10.99 for each and every day the obstruction
remains.
(`95 Code, § 66.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction of streets, see I.C. 36-9-2-7
§ 95.02 PLANTING SHADE AND ORNAMENTAL TREES.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for any person owning or having the control of any
lot or lots within the corporation to plant and cultivate shade or ornamental
trees in front of the lot or lots, provided, that the trees when planted shall
be at least six feet from the front line of the property.
   (B)   This section shall not affect the placement of shade or ornamental
trees planted prior to the adoption of this section.
(`95 Code, § 66.02)
CUTTING PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFILL. That material used in refilling an opening from the bottom of the
new base.
   FLEXIBLE BASE. Asphalt, concrete, stone or other material commonly used in
the construction of a roadway.
   RIGID BASE. Cement concrete or reinforced cement concrete under an asphalt
surface.
(`95 Code, § 66.10)
§ 95.21 CUTTING THE STREET OPENING.
   (A)   Street openings shall be saw cut with straight, neat, vertical edges
and square corners.
   (B)   No opening shall have the dimensions of less than 18 inches unless
authorized by the Town Council.
   (C)   Openings shall be made so that there is no section of adjacent old
pavement with a dimension of less than 18 inches unless authorized by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Methods used in removal of pavement material shall not cause damage to
adjacent pavement.
   (E)   Where existing pavement contains reinforcing, steel shall not be cut
with pneumatic hammers, but shall be cut by sawing or gas cutting.
   (F)   Openings in concrete pavement shall be outlined with a saw to provide
straight, neat joining lines.
(`95 Code, § 66.11)
§ 95.22 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Method A. If protection for underground facilities does not require
clay for backfill, then the entire depth of the excavation shall be filled with
granular material in 12-inch layers with each layer being thoroughly compacted.
   (B)   Method B. Selected clay material free from rocks may be used in the
bottom two feet of the excavation under circumstances where clay material is
desired for the protection of underground facilities, but such clay material
shall not be used within 18 inches of the finished grade. Clay backfill must be
placed in layers not to exceed four-inch thickness and each layer must be
thoroughly compacted by mechanical means. The remaining depth shall be filled
with granular material and compacted in no more than six-inch layers.
(`95 Code, § 66.12)
§ 95.23 REPLACING PAVEMENT AND BASE.
   (A)   Concrete and base.
      (1)   Concrete will not be used if the cut is within two feet of any
utility line owned by the town.
      (2)   When this is not the case, concrete will be used and shall be high
early strength type, have compressive strength of 4000 P.S.I. after 28 days and
be placed at a uniform depth.
   (B)   When repairing concrete surfaces.
      (1)   Concrete shall be boom finish to conform to the cross section and
profile of the roadway and the edges troweled to be neat and uniform.
      (2)   If an opening is to extend from one joint section of existing
pavement into another, a butt joint or contraction joint of two inches in depth
shall be constructed on the alignment of the original joint.
      (3)   If the opening is to be more than 15 feet in length and no original
joints are provided, then contraction joints must be constructed so that no
joint spacing is greater than 15 feet.
   (C)   Hot asphalt concrete pavement.
      (1)   Materials shall be placed and compacted with lifts not to exceed 1
inches in depth.
      (2)    The final surface will be rolled with 14-equipment standard to the
standard asphalt paving industry. Hand tamping will not be allowed.
      (3)   Materials and application will meet the specifications for hot
asphalt concrete as prescribed by the Indiana Department of Highways.
(`95 Code, § 66.13)
§ 95.24 CURBING.
   (A)   All curbing will be installed according to curb and gutter detail
drawing in town specifications.
   (B)   As soon as newly placed concrete acquires an initial set but no more
than 12 hours after placing, an approved method of curbing shall be initiated
which will not discolor or disfigure the curbing and gutter.
   (C)   Newly poured curb and gutter shall be closed to traffic for a period
of 48 hours when the temperature is above 50°F and for a period of 72 hours
when the temperature is between 35° and 50°F.
   (D)   Only with the consent of the Town Maintenance Man will concrete be
permitted to be placed as curb and gutter when the temperature is below 35°F.
(`95 Code, § 66.14)
§ 95.25 ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to locate, place or
install any material, property or any other item of whatever nature in, on,
under or upon any of the public rights-of-way within the Town of Shirley,
Indiana.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed and authorized to issue a five-
day written notice to any person or entity who shall be found to be in
violation of this section, and the notice shall be served upon the violator
either by certified mail, return receipt requested at the violators last known
address or delivered personally to the violator by a designated representative
of the town upon approval by the Town Council.
   (C)   If the violation is not corrected within the prescribed time, the town
may then take such action as necessary to remove the offending material from
the designated public right-of-way with the cost of the corrective action to be
paid by the violator within ten days of receipt of a notice to pay such amount
delivered in the same fashion upon the violation as set forth in division (B)
of this section.
   (D)   If the violator fails to pay the said sum within the time prescribed,
the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Shirley, Indiana, shall file a certified
copy of
the statement of cost in the Auditor’s office of Hancock County or Henry County
and the Auditor shall place the amount so claimed on the tax duplicate against
of the lands of the landowner affected by the work, and the same shall be
collected as taxes are collected and when so collected shall be dispersed to
the General Fund of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties set forth above, a person found to be in
violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $100, plus the cost of enforcing this section, including, but not
limited to attorney’s fees incurred by the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
(Ord. 040797C, passed 4-7-97)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
96.08   Exemption
   
96.09   Administration
   
96.10   Enforcement
§ 96.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to afford its citizens equal opportunity in the
purchase and rental of a dwelling.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or require a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or believes that such person will be injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
   DISABILITY. With respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment, which
substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities, a
record of having such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an
impairment. Such term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to
a controlled substance as defined in section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04 through
96.08.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other persons.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associates, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of §
96.08(B), the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of
housing set forth in §
96.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
96.04 (other than §
96.04(A)(3)) shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, not have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or portion of the proceeds from the
sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one time.
The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented: (a) without
the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or services of any real
estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent or
salesman, or person and (b) without the publication, posting or mailing, after
notice of advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and
96.08, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
available or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability of
that buyer or renter; a person residing in or intending to reside in that
dwelling after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or any person
associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of that
person; or a person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or any person associated with that
person.
   (B)   For purposes of divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) above, discrimination
includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   A failure to design and construct covered multi-family dwellings in
such a manner that the public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons; all the doors designed to
allow passage into and within all premises within such dwellings are
sufficiently wide to allow passage by disabled persons in wheelchairs; and all
premises within such dwellings contain the following features of adaptive
design (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”): an accessible route into and through
the dwelling; light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; reinforcements in bathroom
walls to allow later installation of grab bars; and usable kitchens and
bathrooms such that an individual in a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Nothing in division (B) requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance; for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining
a dwelling; or secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03,
96.04,
96.05 or
96.06.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.08 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private ciub not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing: provided under any state or federal program that
the Secretary of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the
Indiana Civil Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and
operated to assist elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal
program); or intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older, or intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter and
referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in division (B)
below hereof shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the town.
   (B)   Not withstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”)
for administrative enforcement action pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the town shall refer all said complainants to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their programs and activities relating to housing in a manner affirmatively to
further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Commission to
further such purposes.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
§ 96.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   Several avenues of relief are available for aggrieved persons. Remedies are
available through actions commenced through the Indiana Civil Rights
Commission, the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and through
private actions. The town will provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person requesting such information.
(Ord. 07-02-03, passed 7-2-03)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
   
111.   SOLICITATION
   
112.   PLUMBERS
   
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
Amusement Arcades
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License necessary
   
110.03   License and fees
   
110.04   Transfer of license
   
110.05   License for gambling machines
   
110.06   Restrictions
AMUSEMENT ARCADES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place opened to the general public where an amusement
device, as defined in this section, is made available for use by the public.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine or device which, on insertion of a coin, slug,
card or payment of any form of compensation to an attendant or employee of the
establishment containing the device, may be operated for use as a game, contest
or amusement of any description or which may be operated for any games, contest
or amusements, whether the device is operated electrically, electronically,
mechanically or by physical effort or participation by the person making use of
the device. This definition shall not include any amusement device which is
gambling device per se.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person, whether or not the owner or leasee of the device, who
contracts for or permits any amusement device as defined above to be installed,
used or exhibited on premises under his or her possession, control or
ownership.
(`95 Code, § 73.02)
§ 110.02 LICENSE NECESSARY.
   From the date of passage of this code forward, it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to operate any amusement arcade or to hold out for use by the
general public any amusement device as defined herein without first obtaining a
license therefore.
(`95 Code, § 73.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE AND FEES.
   (A)   Each exhibitor, as defined in § 110.01, shall obtain from the Clerk-
Treasurer on or before April 1 of each year a license, good from April 1 to the
following March 31, for each amusement device displayed or in use on any
premises under his or her possession, control or ownership or as soon
thereafter as any amusement device is installed. This license shall be $25 for
each device. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue no license as required by
this section until the fee assessed herein is paid.
   (B)   Each license issued shall contain the following information: name of
exhibitor, location of licensed machine, character of licensed machine, name of
manufacturer of machine, manufactural serial number of machine, owner of
machine and denomination of coin used in the machine.
   (C)   There is levied upon each amusement device licensed by this town and
exhibited therein an annual fee of $25, due and payable on the issuance of the
annual license by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The fee on any amusement device installed by an exhibitor after
October 1 of any year shall only be one-half of the annual rate.
   (E)   A license described in division (A) above shall be displayed publicly
for each machine.
(`95 Code, § 73.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any exhibitor who has obtained a license as required by § 110.02 and paid
the fee levied therein may substitute another machine of similar character by
surrendering the original license to the Clerk- Treasurer and paying a $5
license fee. He or she shall then have issued to him or her a license for the
same period as the original license for the substituted machine. No fee is
payable on the substituted machine.
(`95 Code, § 73.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FOR GAMBLING MACHINES.
   No license of an amusement device shall permit any use for the licensed
machine for gambling. Any licensee convicted of violating this section shall be
fined, have his or her license revoked for all amusement devices and be
ineligible to obtain any further license for an amusement device for a period
of two years from the date of conviction.
(`95 Code, § 73.05)
§ 110.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner, leasee, manager or
operator of an amusement arcade as defined above to do any of the following:
   (A)   Permit in any amusement arcade any person to play or operate any
amusement device between the hours of midnight and 8:00 a.m. However, this
provision shall not apply to those places of business authorized by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Commission to serve liquor, beer or wine to the patrons on
the premises;
   (B)   Operate or permit to be operated any gambling device on or about the
premises or knowingly permit any amusement device to be used as a gambling
device;
   (C)   Place, maintain or permit to be placed or maintained any screen,
curtain, partition, door or other obstruction so as to prevent a free and
unobstructed view of the interior of the premises;
   (D)   Permit any immoral or obscene language or conduct on the premises or
fail to keep the premises in a clean and sanitary condition.
(`95 Code, § 73.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   No soliciting signs or stickers or other means of notification
   
111.02   Enforcement
Door-to-Door Solicitation
   
110.10   Definitions
   
110.11   Licensing
   
110.12   Restrictions on license/door-to-door solicitation
   
110.13   License revocation or denial
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 NO SOLICITING SIGNS OR STICKERS OR OTHER MEANS OF NOTIFICATION.
   The resident should obtain a "No soliciting" sign or sticker if they do not
wish soliciting at their residence.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
§ 111.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is urged to provide prompt response to any call for
assistance to a resident upon whose private property a trespass has occurred
after warning by sign or other notification reasonably intended to advise a
person or persons to remove themselves from such private property.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
§ 111.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be
defined as herein stated below:
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. Shall include all methods and means of soliciting
funds and/or of selling commercial products, services or property within the
corporate limits of the town, by and through the uninvited in-person
solicitation of town residents on private property.
   EXEMPT PERSONS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected political speech or activity;
      (2)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected religious speech or activity;
      (3)   An individual engaged in the solicitation of funds and/or the sale
of cookies, candies, paper products or similar sundries for and on behalf of a
not-for-profit or nonprofit organization or association that is exempt from the
Indiana Gross Retail Tax; and
      (4)   An individual who, due to the preemption of applicable federal or
state law, is exempt from local licensing requirements.
   VENDOR. A person, partnership, corporation, company, organization or entity
who is not an exempt person and who is engaged in the selling, peddling,
merchandising or brokering of products, services or property to the general
public for a commercial purpose and/or who is engaged in the solicitation of
funds.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
§ 111.11 LICENSING.
   (A)   Any vendor who desires to engage in door-to-door solicitation shall
first obtain from the Town Hall a non-transferable door-to-door solicitation
license ("license") permitting such activity by vendor and/or by vendor's
employees and agents.
   (B)   If the vendor intends to sell or offers to sell any type of food or
beverage, the Town Hall shall refer the application to the Hancock County or
Henry County Health Department for review and recommendation, depending on the
violation location. The review shall include an inspection of all refrigeration
equipment to be used by the vendor and shall insure that minimum sanitation
requirements established by state and local law are met.
   (C)   The Town Hall shall provide to any person, upon request, a door-to-
door vendor application form ("application") to be completed by a vendor and
processed by the Police Department. The application shall seek general
information about the vendor, vendor's business and the nature of vendor's
proposed door-to-door solicitation. The application shall seek relevant
information about the vendor's company such as: date of incorporation; state of
incorporation and if the corporation is formed outside of the State of Indiana;
the date on which such corporation was qualified to transact business as a
foreign corporation in Indiana. The application shall also require a vendor to
list the name of every employee and agent who will be involved in door-to-door
solicitation.
   (D)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any
license granted thereon, there is any substantial change in fact, policy or
method that would materially alter the information given in the application,
the applicant shall notify the Police Department, in writing, of the change
within 72 hours after such change. If the applicant or licensee fails to so
notify the Police Department, any license issued to the applicant or vendor
shall be suspended pursuant to a hearing set forth in §
111.13.
   (E)   A license shall be issued to a vendor by the Town Hall upon such
vendor's completion of an application, confirmation that such vendor has no
felony or misdemeanor conviction within 15 years of the application date for a
crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude, and such vendor has
paid a license fee of $25 for a three-day license. Duplicate license or copy of
receipt will be made if multiple people will be going door to door providing
they pass the background check.
   (F)   The decision as to whether an application is approved or denied shall
be made by the Chief of Police within seven days from the date the application
is submitted to the Police Department for processing.
   (G)   Vendor, and each of vendor's employees and agents, shall provide the
homeowner the ability to view the receipt that will be issued by the Town Hall
whenever engaging in door-to-door solicitation.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
§ 111.12 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE/DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Door-to-door solicitation by vendors may be conducted between the
following hours:
      (1)   October 1 through April 30 - between 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of
any day.
      (2)   May 1 through September 30 - between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of
any day.
   (B)   Subject to earlier revocation, pursuant to this section, a license, as
well as any identification card(s) issued therewith, shall be valid for exactly
three days, as applicable, from the date the license or identification card was
issued, and shall thereafter immediately expire and become null and void.
   (C)   Vendor, and vendor's employees and agents, shall comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations while engaging in
door-to-door solicitation.
   (D)   Unlawful to solicit on posted premises. It is unlawful for any vendor
to ring the bell, or knock on the door, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance
for the purpose of peddling or soliciting at any residence, dwelling or place
of business at which a sign bearing the words "No Solicitors" (or words of
similar import indicating that solicitors are not wanted on said premises) is
painted, affixed, or otherwise exposed to public view; provided, that this
section shall not apply to any peddler or solicitor who rings the bell, knocks
on the door, or otherwise attempts to gain admittance to such residence or
dwelling at the invitation or with the consent of the occupant thereof.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
§ 111.13 LICENSE REVOCATION OR DENIAL.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police or his or her designee, determines that one or
more of the following apply to a vendor and/or to any employee or agent of
vendor who applies for a license or who is involved in door-to-door
solicitation, then the Chief of Police shall deny the application and/or revoke
an issued license and/or identification card(s) relating thereto, whichever
action is applicable under the circumstances:
      (1)   Vendor submitted an application that contains materially false or
misleading information;
      (2)   Vendor or any of vendor's employees or agents was, within 15 years
prior to the date of vendor's application, convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Vendor or any of vendor's employees or agents has violated this
section or has been charged with or convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime
of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude after the issuance of but
prior to the expiration date of such person's license and/or identification
card;
      (4)   Vendor or any of vendor's employees or agents has failed to
properly display his/her identification card while engaged in door-to-door
solicitation; or
      (5)   Two or more written and sworn complaints have been delivered to the
Police Department regarding allegedly untruthful or illegal conduct concerning
vendor or vendor's employees or agents during his/her door-to-door
solicitation.
      (6)   All permit denials/revocations shall be in writing, shall state
thereon the effective date of the denial/revocation and the reason for same,
and shall be served by U.S. certified mail or by personal service on vendor at
vendor's address as contained in the application.
      (7)   Any vendor, within 20 days from the date on which notice of such
permit denial or revocation notice is served thereon, may by written request
made and delivered to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, within such
time period, appeal such action to the Town Council. If a timely appeal is not
made, the decision of the Chief of Police is final. If a timely appeal is made,
the Commission shall hear the appeal at a public hearing which shall begin no
more than 20 days from the date of the receipt of the appeal request by the
Chief of Police. The Commission shall issue its written decision on the appeal
no more than ten days from the ending date of the hearing thereon, which
Commission decision shall be final.
      (8)   No application, license or identification card fees shall be
returned or refunded upon the revocation of a license and/or identification
card issued pursuant to this section, all such monies being deemed forfeited.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any vendor and/or any employee or agent of vendor who engages in door-
to-door solicitation in violation of §§
111.10 through
111.13 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for each separate offense during
which the same engages in such conduct, with a maximum penalty of up to $1,000
per day. A vendor and/or employee or agent of a vendor who commits a violation
under this chapter is subject to the enforcement procedures provided in I.C.
34-28-5-1 and the town's Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The town may seek a temporary and/or permanent restraining order
against any vendor and/or any employee or agent thereof in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The town's remedies hereunder shall be cumulative and pursuit of one
remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of others under this section or
otherwise.
   (D)   Willful or intentional disregard of this section shall, to the full
extent permitted by law, entitle the town to collect from the violator the
town's attorney fees, court costs, litigation expenses, and all other
reasonable costs and expenses incurred in obtaining a restraining order and/or
any other enforcement remedies against same offender.
(Ord. 050617, passed 10-7-17)
CHAPTER 112: PLUMBERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Compliance with rules of Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission
   
112.03   Lights and guards at openings or obstructions
   
112.04   Disturbance of underground structures or public works
   
112.05   Excavations to be backfilled
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBER. Any person, company or corporation engaged, either wholly or in
part, in the business of laying, fitting, connecting and repairing natural or
artificial gas pipes or mains, water pipes or mains or sewerage pipes or drains
or in the doing of anything properly belonging to such work.
   PLUMBING. The business of plumbing as engaged in by a plumber.
(`95 Code, § 72.01)
§ 112.02 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES OF FIRE PREVENTION AND BUILDING SAFETY
COMMISSION.
   A plumber shall, in the performance of his or her occupation in the town,
comply with the approved rules and regulations of the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission and all approved revisions of that body; a copy of
these rules and
regulations shall be filed at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for inspection.
(`95 Code, § 72.02)
Statutory reference:
   Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission,
    see I.C. 22-12-2-1 et seq.
§ 112.03 LIGHTS AND GUARDS AT OPENINGS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It is the duty of all town employees and officials to report any
observation of trenches which are improperly bridged and to report whether or
not proper lights or warnings are placed at all openings or obstructions; town
employees and officials must also immediately notify the licensee of the
dereliction, and if unable to find the proper parties, or if, when the proper
parties are notified the defect is not immediately remedied, to arrange for the
placement of proper lights and guards.
   (B)   These reported acts of neglect shall be placed before the Town Council
for disposition.
(`95 Code, § 72.03)
§ 112.04 DISTURBANCE OF UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES OR PUBLIC WORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for a plumber, his, her or its agents or employees, or
any of them, in the prosecution of business, or in the laying of pipes, mains,
conduits or drains or other apparatus or in the excavation of the soil of any
of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, lanes or public ground to displace, disturb,
deface or endanger any water main or sewer drain in the town or any other
public work, without the
consent of the Town Maintenance Man or any of the pipes, mains, conduits or
other subterranean structures or cables of any other person or company without
the consent of the person or company and shall be liable and pay to the town
the necessary cost of repairs made necessary by the interference and
disturbance.
(`95 Code, § 72.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.05 EXCAVATIONS TO BE BACKFILLED.
   All excavations shall be backfilled in accordance with the following
procedures:
   (A)   No extremely wet or muddy backfill material shall be used. If these
conditions exist, gravel shall be used;
   (B)   Backfill material will be returned to excavation in not more than 12-
inch layers and each layer compacted by hand tamp, pneumatic tamper or similar
device before the next layer is added;
   (C)   The water jet method of tunneling may be used under a sidewalk, curb,
gutter or other place of tunneling;
   (D)   Excavation shall be backfilled to a point two inches above the
existing street level;
   (E)   The Town Maintenance Man shall be notified by the contractor before
backfilling is started and he or she shall be responsible for the execution of
these regulations:
      (1)   The Town Maintenance Man shall inspect backfilling during and at
the finish of backfill with a probe rod or any compaction indicator at his or
her disposal;
      (2)   The Town Maintenance Man shall have the right to order reexcavation
and refill if compaction does not comply with these regulations;
   (F)   The contractor shall maintain the two inches above street level grade
of excavation for a period of 30 days.
(`95 Code, § 72.05)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Issuance of liquor retailer’s permits
   
113.02   No consumption within town park
§ 113.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   The consent of the town is given to the proper state legal authorities to
issue liquor retailers permits for the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages
to applicants otherwise duly qualified to premises within the town.
(`95 Code, § 71.01)
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of retailers and dealers permits, see I.C. 7.1-3-19-1 through 7.1-
3-19-17
§ 113.02 NO CONSUMPTION WITHIN TOWN PARK.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage within the confines of the
Town Park.
(`95 Code, § 71.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   FCC rate regulations
   
114.02   Views of interested parties
   
114.03   Filing of forms
§ 114.01 FCC RATE REGULATIONS.
   The town will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic
service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system
operating in the town, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions
in the franchise.
(`95 Code, § 44.01) (Ord. 1394, passed 10-3-93)
§ 114.02 VIEWS OF INTERESTED PARTIES.
   In connection with such regulation, the town will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(`95 Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 1394, passed 10-3-93)
§ 114.03 FILING OF FORMS.
   The President of the Town Council, or his or her designee, is authorized to
execute on behalf of the town and file with the FCC such certification forms or
other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate
regulations in order to enable the town to regulate basic service rates and
charges.
(`95 Code, § 44.03) (Ord. 1394, passed 10-3-93)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Congregating in public places
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
   
130.04   Interference with officials
   
130.05   Unnecessary noise by motor vehicles
   
130.06   Loitering prohibited
Offenses Against Persons and Property
   
130.20   Firing guns
   
130.21   Possession of explosives
   
130.22   Killing or injuring birds
   
130.23   Throwing or shooting missiles
Offenses Against Morals
   
130.35   Definition
   
130.36   Arrest of gamblers
   
130.37   Arrest of inhabitants; seizure and destruction of apparatus
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally:
   (A)   Engages in fighting or in tumultuous conduct;
   (B)   Makes unreasonable noise and continues to do so after being asked to
stop; or
   (C)   Disrupts a lawful assembly of persons, commits disorderly conduct, a
Class B misdemeanor.
(`95 Code, § 80.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to congregate or cause to be congregated a
crowd of three or more persons upon any public street, alley, parking lot,
building or any other public place within the town so as to obstruct the same
or as to hinder or annoy passers by or occupants of adjacent premises or as to
interfere with the activities normally carried on the premises.
(`95 Code, § 80.02) (Ord. 3-71, passed 3-7-71)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, or 16, or 17 years of age
to be in a public place during the following times:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday.
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday.
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child
into custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
         (a)   The child has violated this section; and
         (b)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(I.C. 31-37-3-4)
   (B)   Parent, guardian prohibited from contributing to delinquency of child
in their custody.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CHILD or CHILDREN. A male or female child under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   The Common Council believes that a high and responsible duty rests
on a parent or parents as to their children’s training, conduct, and care, and
the same thing is true of any other person or persons so responsible for any
child or children. Therefore, it is hereby made unlawful for a parent, parents,
person, or persons, having the care, custody, of a child or children, or any
person having such control of a child or children by any act or omission of
duty, to encourage and contribute that child or children to any delinquency.
      (3)   The parent, parents, person, or persons so charged with the care,
custody, and control of the child or children who by any act or omissions of
duty, encourages, contributes, and permits the child or children within the
town to do the following acts, are guilty of a punishable violation:
         (a)   To allow such child or children to conduct himself, herself or
themselves so as to endanger the morals or the health of himself or others.
         (b)   To allow such child or children to be in a disreputable place or
to associate with vagrant, vicious, or immoral person(s).
         (c)   To allow such child or children to have an environment dangerous
to life or limb, or injurious to the health or morals of that child or others.
         (d)   To allow such child or children to do any act that contributes
to the waywardness of that child or any person at any time.
         (e)   To permit a child or children to habitually or frequently loiter
late at night on the streets, alleys, public buildings, parks, and public
places unattended by parent, parents, person, or persons having custody and
control of that child or children.
      (4)   The judge of the appropriate court and the juvenile court judge
shall have original jurisdiction in all proceedings and all matters under this
section, in any case of any violation of any of the terms of this section.
      (5)   Any police officer of the town shall inquire into and investigate
the actions of the parent, parents, person, and persons having custody and
control of any child or children whom they have grounds to believe are
violators of this section, and of any such child or children involved in the
matter. The investigating officer or officers shall report the results of their
inquiries and investigations to the probation officer, to the judge of the
appropriate court, and the judge of the juvenile court.
(Ord. 10-15-05A, passed 10-15-05) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor, see I.C. 35-46-1-8
   Curfews, local option, see I.C. 31-37-3-4
§ 130.04 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally impede or
interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere, with the Town Marshal,
firefighter or any other town official in the performance of his or her duty or
emergency functions as a firefighter, Town Marshal or town official.
(`95 Code, § 80.06) (Ord. 3-71, passed 3-7-71)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 UNNECESSARY NOISE BY MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The making of any unnecessary noise in the operation of any motorcycle or
any other motor vehicle within the town shall be a nuisance and a violation of
this section.
(`95 Code, § 82.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a place
at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.
   (B)   Circumstances which may be considered in determining whether an alarm
is warranted include:
      (1)   The fact the malefactor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer;
      (2)   Refuses to identify himself or herself; or
      (3)   Manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
   (C)   Unless flight by the malefactor or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section afford the malefactor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted by requesting him or her to identify himself or
herself and explain his or her presence and conduct.
   (D)   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the
officer did not comply with division (C) above, or if it appears at the trial
that the explanation given by the actor was true and if believed by the peace
officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
(`95 Code, § 82.02)
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
§ 130.20 FIRING GUNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to fire or shoot a sling shot, hand gun, long
gun, air rifle, pellet gun or any other device whereby a pellet is propelled by
explosive powder of either gun powder or air within the limits of the town.
(`95 Code, § 81.01) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-75)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.21 POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have or keep
within the limits of the town any nitroglycerin, dynamite or other dangerous
explosive.
(`95 Code, § 81.02)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.22 KILLING OR INJURING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or injure, or pursue with intent
so to do, any turtledove, meadowlark, robin, mockingbird, wren, redbird,
martin, thrush, swallow, oriole, yellowhammer, catbird or peewee or to destroy
or disturb the eggs or the young of these birds.
(`95 Code, § 81.04)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.23 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot stones, clubs, shots
or any objects or missiles, either with hand, sling or other instrument for the
purpose of throwing or shooting at any person or animal or at any building or
other property or to throw or shoot objects or missiles in like manner upon any
of the streets or alleys within the limits of the town.
(`95 Code, § 81.05)
Penalty, see § 130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
§ 130.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMBLER. Any person who shall be the keeper or proprietor or exhibitor of
any gambling table or device or gambling implements or shall be an assistant or
attendant at any gaming table or apparatus in any gambling house.
(`95 Code, § 83.01)
§ 130.36 ARREST OF GAMBLERS.
   Any person who has committed any of the offenses defined in §
130.37 may be arrested by the Marshal or other peace officer and taken before
the judge of the court having jurisdiction.
(`95 Code, § 83.02)
§ 130.37 ARREST OF INHABITANTS; SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF APPARATUS.
   (A)   It shall be competent and lawful at all times for the Marshal and
other peace officers to visit all places where they have reason to believe that
gaming apparatus is kept or gambling is permitted or carried on or other
unlawful gambling practice is carried on or permitted.
   (B)   If evidence of an unlawful gambling practice is found, the officers
shall arrest all persons inhabiting or frequenting the place, seize and destroy
all apparatus for gaming or unlawful purpose there found and hold and charge
the persons before the judge of the court having jurisdiction.
(`95 Code, § 83.03)
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see I.C. 35-45-5-1 et seq.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 10-15-05A, passed 10-15-05)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
152.   ZONING REGULATIONS
   
153.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Area planning law
   
150.03   Zoning law
   
150.04   Comprehensive Plan
   
150.05   Representation
   
150.06   County appropriation
   
150.07   Fire safety and building rules
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.20   State law adopted by reference
   
150.21   Appointment of department to administer
   
150.22   Construction
   
150.23   Definitions
House Numbering and Street Naming
   
150.40   Town Council to prescribe system
   
150.41   Numbering system established
   
150.42   Method
   
150.43   Numbers
   
150.44   Changes
   
150.45   Subdivision requirement
   
150.46   Number not to be removed
   
150.47   Street names
   
150.48   Notification required
Minimum Standards for Residential Property and Housing
   
150.60   Purpose
   
150.61   Definitions
   
150.62   Minimum living space
   
150.63   Minimum thermal standards
   
150.64   Responsibilities of sanitation maintenance by owner and/or occupant
   
150.65   Temporary occupancy
   
150.66   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
150.67   Enforcement
Registration and Abatement of Vacant and Abandoned Buildings
   
150.75   Scope
   
150.76   Purpose
   
150.77   Definitions
   
150.78   Standard for maintenance
   
150.79   Continuing maintenance, mandatory and voluntary registration
   
150.80   Liability insurance
   
150.81   Registration of buildings and structures
   
150.82   Registration fee
   
150.83   Property manager
   
150.84   Exemptions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   The Hancock County Building Inspector is authorized to enforce the Hancock
County Building Code within the town. All fees for filing applications for
building permits shall be paid to and collected by the Auditor of Hancock
County, Indiana.
(`95 Code, § 90.01)
§ 150.02 AREA PLANNING LAW.
   The Town of Shirley, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-202(b), adopts the area
planning law.
(`95 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 9-8-86, passed 9-8-86)
§ 150.03 ZONING LAW.
   Chapter 7 of the Hancock County Code, with the exception of §§ 7-1 through
7-7, is adopted as the zoning law for the Area Plan Department.
(`95 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 9-8-86, passed 9-8-86)
§ 150.04 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Shirley shall remain in full force
and effect until amended. The Comprehensive Plan for the remainder of the
jurisdictional area of the Area Plan Department shall be governed by the terms
of Ord. 1986-9A, Section III, as adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
Hancock County.
(`95 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 9-8-86, passed 9-8-86)
§ 150.05 REPRESENTATION.
   The representation on the Area Plan Commission, and the initial terms of the
members of the Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be that as set
out in Ord. 1986-9A as adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Hancock County.
(`95 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 9-8-86, passed 9-8-86)
§ 150.06 COUNTY APPROPRIATION.
   (A)   The Area Planning Department shall be operated out of monies
appropriated by the county.
   (B)   The town may withdraw from the Area Planning Department by adopting an
ordinance to that effect and certifying a copy of that ordinance to all of the
cities, towns and the county that are members.
(`95 Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 9-8-86, passed 9-8-86)
§ 150.07 FIRE SAFETY AND BUILDING RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-2-9 and I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the fire safety rules
and building rules, as adopted and hereafter amended by the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, are adopted by reference as the rules of the town.
   (B)   The Hancock County Building Inspector is authorized to enforce this
fire safety and building rules within the town limits, to issue permits and to
charge and collect the same fee as is charged to county residents.
(Ord. 070797, passed 7-7-97)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the Indiana Unsafe
Building Law and explicitly incorporates by reference the definition of
“substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9.
(Ord. 060416, passed 6-4-16)
§ 150.21 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT TO ADMINISTER.
   The Town Council or the Town Council’s designee shall be the department
authorized to administer this subchapter.
(Ord. 060416, passed 6-4-16)
§ 150.22 CONSTRUCTION.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 060416, passed 6-4-16)
§ 150.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The executive department consisting of the Town Council
President, Fire Chief, and other designees appointed by the Executive.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The enforcement authority to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter as well as those provisions adopted by reference shall be
the town’s Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee. The town shall name
Andrew Ebbert, Fire Chief, as the first designee. Subsequent designees may be
named in the town minutes as designee to enforce this subchapter.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The town’s Unsafe Building Board or other designee
appointed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 060416, passed 6-4-16)
HOUSE NUMBERING AND STREET NAMING
§ 150.40 TOWN COUNCIL TO PRESCRIBE SYSTEM.
   The Town Council shall, by rule, prescribe the numbering system for lots and
structures and approve the assignment of street numbers to lots and structures
in accordance with this code.
(`95 Code, § 63.01) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.41 NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   All buildings and building sites within the town shall be numbered in a
uniform plan, and all buildings shall have displayed on front or street side
thereof the numbers as may be designated under the plan and provisions of this
code.
(`95 Code, § 63.02) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.42 METHOD.
   Numbering of buildings and building sites in the town on streets that run in
east west direction shall start from the Shirley Park with numbers increasing
going to the west. Numbering of buildings and building sites on streets that
run in a north south
direction shall start on the north side of Lee Street and increase for all
buildings or building sites north thereof. Even numbers shall be used for
buildings and building sites on the north side or east side of any street and
odd numbers will be used for any buildings and building sites on the south side
or west side of any street.
(`95 Code, § 63.03) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.43 NUMBERS.
   On notification by the Town Council of the proper number of the building or
building site, the owner of the building or the building site shall cause that
number to be placed and continuously maintained in a conspicuous place on the
front of the building. If a building stands back more than 50 feet from a
street (property) line, the number shall be conspicuously displayed at or near
the walk, driveway or common entrance to the building at the street (property)
line and so placed so as to be easily legible from the sidewalk or street.
Numerals shall be at least three inches in height.
(`95 Code, § 63.04) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.44 CHANGES.
   The Town Council shall be authorized to change the house numbering of any
street or part of a street or of any industrial building or buildings when the
change shall be necessary by reason of readjustment of any kind, inaccuracy or
mistake or for any other cause.
(`95 Code, § 63.05) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.45 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENT.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision will be recorded unless each lot bears a
street number (within a border) in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
(`95 Code, § 63.06) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.46 NUMBER NOT TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, alter or deface any house
number, properly assigned or placed on or near a building or to place or retain
on any building any number other than the one duly assigned by the Town
Council.
(`95 Code, § 63.07) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.47 STREET NAMES.
   Streets shall be named and renamed by the Town Council so that their names
are easy to understand to avoid duplication or a conflict with other names or
streets within the same zip code area.
(`95 Code, § 63.08) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
§ 150.48 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Whenever the Town Council names or renames streets or numbers or renumbers
lots and structures under this subchapter, the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Shirley, Indiana, shall notify the Circuit Court Clerk of its action no later
than the last day of the month following the month in which the action was
taken.
(`95 Code, § 63.09) (Ord. 9-7-91, passed 9-7-91)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY AND HOUSING
§ 150.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Prevent and control the incidents of communicable diseases;
   (B)   Reduce environmental hazards to health;
   (C)   Regulate publically and privately owned dwellings for the purposes of
maintaining adequate sanitation and public health;
   (D)   Insure the quality of housing is adequate for the protection of public
health;
   (E)   Establish minimum standards for basic equipment for facilities for
thermal conditions;
   (F)   Establish minimum standards for use and location and amount of space
for human occupancy.
§ 150.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Has the meaning contained within 329 IAC 10-2-76. The term garbage
shall also include dead animals, parts of dead animals, and all other
putrescible materials.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating. The following types of rooms are not
habitable rooms: bathroom, laundry room, furnace room, pantry, kitchenette,
utility room with less than 50 square feet of flooring space, foyer, connecting
corridor, stairway, closet, storage space, workshop, or hobby or recreational
area.
   MULTI-UNIT.  A dwelling with more than two individual apartments or living
units.
   OCCUPANT.  Any individual over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
   ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS.  Fifteen degrees Fahrenheit above the lowest
recorded temperature in Hancock County for the prior ten-year period.
   OWNER.  Unless otherwise indicated shall refer to ownership of real
property, which ownership may take any one or more of the following forms:
      (1)   The person holding an interest in fee simple, life estate, joint
tenancy, tenancy by the entireties, and/or life estate.
      (2)   The title holder as reported in the Office of the Hancock County
Recorder.
      (3)   The purchaser of real property under a contract for conditional
sale.
      (4)   The person in control of the property as personal representative of
an estate, trustee, receiver, successor, assign, or guardian of a person
specified in subsections (1), (2) or (3) above.
   PLUMBING.  Means and includes all of the following facilities and equipment:
natural gas pipes, equipment fueled by natural gas or oil, water pipes, garbage
disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, showers, clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and
any other similarly installed fixtures together with all connections to water,
sewer, and gas lines.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste including combustible waste such as
paper, cardboard, plastic containers, yard clippings, and wood and non-
combustible waste such as cans, glass, metal, and bottles.
   SOLID WASTE.  Has the meaning contained within 329 IAC 10-2-174.
   SOLID WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER.  A receptacle used for the temporary storage
for solid waste while awaiting collection. The refuse bin is considered to be a
SOLID WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER.
   VECTOR.  Any living animal capable of harboring or transmitting micro-
organisms from one animal to another animal or human.
§ 150.62 MINIMUM LIVING SPACE.
   There shall be at least 150 square feet of floor space provided in each
habitable dwelling for the first occupation of the dwelling. An additional 100
square feet of floor space shall be provided for each additional occupant.
Floor space is calculated in habitable rooms in which the ceiling height is
more than five feet.
§ 150.63 MINIMUM THERMAL STANDARDS.
   No dwelling may be inhabited unless the provisions of this subchapter are
met. Unless otherwise indicated, the property owners are responsible for taking
or causing to be taken any action necessary to maintain compliance with the
provisions set forth hereafter. Every dwelling shall have heating equipment and
appurtenances which are properly installed, maintained in safe and good working
condition, and capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms and
bathrooms to a temperature of at least 68°F. measured at a distance 36 inches
above floor level under ordinary winter conditions.
§ 150.64 RESPONSIBILITIES OF SANITATION MAINTENANCE BY OWNER AND/OR OCCUPANT.
   An owner may not allow occupancy of a dwelling unless the premises are
clearly sanitary, fit for human occupancy, and comply with the provisions of
this Code. Occupant responsibilities for sanitation shall include the occupant
keeping the dwelling place and/or premises that the occupant controls in a
clean and sanitary condition. The occupant must either store or dispose in a
clean, safe and sanitary manner all garbage and rubbish. The occupant must keep
solid waste containers in a clean and sanitary condition. When plastic bags are
used, the occupant must manage storage and location of the garbage and rubbish
in a manner that does not permit the garbage or rubbish to be a food source for
rodents or other vectors. An occupant shall keep the premises free
from accumulations from rubbish, garbage and junk vehicles. No owner shall
allow the condition of any inhabited or unoccupied property to produce a health
or safety hazard. No owner or occupant shall allow the condition of any
inhabited or unoccupied property to cause or produce conditions in which rats,
mosquitos, and other disease vectors have food, shelter, or a place to breed.
Every occupant of a single family dwelling is responsible for extermination of
insects or rats on the property. Every occupant of a multi-unit dwelling is
responsible for extermination of insects or rats whenever his or her individual
unit is the only unit infested. When infestation is caused by failure of the
owner of the property to maintain a dwelling in a reasonably rat-proof or
insect-proof condition, extermination is the responsibility of the owner.
§ 150.65 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY.
   Persons may not occupy for more than 30 consecutive days a tent, trailer, or
other structure designed to be transportable which is not affixed to a
foundation and permanently connected to a public utility system. This section
does not apply to a campground operating with the approval of the Indiana
Department of Health and the Hancock County Board of Health.
§ 150.66 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   No dwelling may be inhabited unless the provisions of this subchapter
are met. Unless otherwise indicated, the property owner is responsible for
taking or causing to be taken any action necessary to maintain compliance with
the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or area in which food may be
prepared and cooked equipped with the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
an improved
water supply and sewer system. The sink must provide an adequate amount of
water under pressure, both unheated and heated, to no more than 120° F.
      (2)   Cabinets, shelves, counters or tables used for the storage of food,
eating, drinking, or cooking equipment, and utensils shall be of sound
construction furnished with services that are easily cleanable and that will
not impart harmful effect to food.
      (3)   The owner shall provide a stove, oven, or microwave oven for
cooking food and a refrigerator for the safe storage of food at temperatures of
less than 45° F. unless a lease agreement requires the lessee to provide any or
all of these appliances. These appliances shall be properly installed and all
necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operation and shall be
maintained in good working order. When the occupant is expected to provide
these appliances, adequate space and connections for the safe and efficient
installation and operation shall be provided by owner.
   (C)   Every dwelling shall have a flush toilet. The toilet shall be:
      (1)   In good working condition;
      (2)   Equipped with easily cleanable services;
      (3)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of running water under pressure to cause the toilet to operate properly;
      (4)   Properly connected to an approved sewer system.
   (D)   Every dwelling shall have a lavatory sink. The sink may be in the same
room as the flush toilet; however, the sink may be located in another room if
the sink is located close to the door leading directly from the toilet room.
The sink shall be:
      (1)   In good working condition;
      (2)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of water under pressure, both unheated and heated to no more than 120°
F. so that the sink operates properly;
      (3)   Is properly connected to an approved sewage disposal and treatment
system;
      (4)   The water inlet shall be located at least one inch above the
overflow rim or otherwise designed to prevent cross-connections.
   (E)   Every dwelling shall have a bathtub or shower. The bathtub or shower
shall be:
      (1)   In good working condition;
      (2)   Properly connected to a water system that provides an adequate
amount of unheated water and water heated to no more than 120° F. under
pressure for proper operation of the bathtub or shower;
      (3)   Properly connected to an approved sewage disposal and treatment
system;
      (4)   The water inlet shall be located at least one inch above the
overflow rim or otherwise designed to prevent cross-connections.
§ 150.67 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any employee of the Department of Health for the purposes of this
section is considered to be a Health Officer who, upon bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
at any time for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever a Health Officer determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this subchapter,
the Health Officer shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or
persons responsible therefor, or to any known agent of such person as
hereinafter provided. Such notice shall be in writing, include a statement of
the reasons why it is being issued, allow reasonable time for the performance
of any act required to remedy the situation, be served upon the person or
persons responsible or to any known agent of such person by personal delivery,
first class mail, to their last known address, by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place in or about the building or dwelling affected by the notice,
or by any other method authorized or required under the laws of this state.
Such notice must contain an outline of the remedial action required, which if
taken by specified date, will constitute compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   If an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the
public health, a health officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an
emergency administrative notice of violation reciting the existence of an
emergency and requiring that such action which is deemed necessary to be taken
to abate the emergency.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter constitutes
an ordinance violation punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each
offense with each day the violation remains in existence constituting a
separate and distinct offense. In addition to any fine levied, the Department
may seek equitable relief to abate the public health hazard, nuisance, or
violation of this subchapter by proceedings in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Should the department be required to institute legal proceedings
to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, in addition to any fines set
forth above, the offending person or entity shall be responsible for repayment
to the Department of any expenses, including but not limited to, attorney’s
fees incurred in the enforcement action.
REGISTRATION AND ABATEMENT OF VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS
§ 150.75 SCOPE.
   (A)   The Town of Shirley finds that vacant and abandoned buildings may
cause a hazard to public health, safety and welfare. Establishment and
enforcement of a registration program and abatement of vacant and abandoned
properties to prevent blight are necessary to promote the general welfare of
the community.
   (B)   There are hereby established rules and regulations registration of
vacant and abandoned and the abatement of vacant and abandoned properties in
the Town of Shirley, Indiana which shall be known as "The Registration and
Abatement of Vacant and Abandoned Buildings" of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.76 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subchapter is as follows:
   (A)   To establish a program for ongoing identification and registration of
buildings and properties which have been vacant for a designated period of
time;
   (B)   To establish the responsibility for the owners of vacant and abandoned
buildings or properties; and
   (C)   To provide for administration and enforcement of standards related to
vacant and abandoned buildings or properties.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.77 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED BUILDING. A building or structure on a parcel of real property in
the Town of Shirley which is:
      (1)   Vacant for more than 90 days;
      (2)   Which is also submit to and order issued pursuant to the Town of
Shirley's Unsafe Building Ordinance, Minimum Housing Standards Ordinance and
Minimum Standards for Non- Residential Properties; and
      (3)   Upon which the condition has generated the order has existed for at
least 30 days and has not been remedied.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable title in the real estate or
premises.
   OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE. A person hired by the owner to represent and/or
advocate on the owner's behalf.
   PERSON. Any entity including any of the following: individual, firm,
corporation, association, partnership, or limited liability corporation/
company. References in the masculine gender include the feminine and the
neuter, in the present tense includes the future, and the singular includes the
plural.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. An individual or company responsible for the day-to-day
functioning of a piece of real estate.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building or structure on a parcel of real property which
lacks the habitual presence of human being or beings who have a legal right to
be on the premises, or at which substantially all lawful business operations or
residential occupancy has ceased for a period of at least 30 days. The term
VACANT BUILDING shall not include a seasonally occupied residence or a
residence owned by an individual actively serving in the military.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.78 STANDARD FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   At least once each week, the owner or property manager of the
property required to be registered under this subchapter shall ensure that the
property is inspected and secured against unlawful entry, that the property is
cleaned, vegetation is mowed, and that walkways are cleared of snow and ice.
      (2)   Records of such inspections shall be provided to the Code
Enforcement Officer upon request.
   (B)   Door and window openings of all buildings or structures on the
property shall be secured against unlawful entry by the use of locks designed
for such use.
   (C)   To protect the building against unlawful entry or vandalism while
vacant, the owner may secure the doors and windows of the building by the use
of boarding. If boarding is used to secure the building, the following standard
shall be met:
      (1)   Windows shall be framed by nominal two-inch by four-inch lumber
secured with plywood to the frame using six seven-inch lag bolts into king
studs in all corners and in the center of the vertical boards. Plywood shall be
a minimum of four-ply rated for exterior exposure, no less than one-half inch
in thickness and attached with tamper proof screws, no less than three inches
in length and spaced no more than eight inches on-center.
      (2)   Doors may be secured against unlawful entry by the use of locks
designed to prevent unlawful entry, or doors may by framing nominal two-inch by
four-inch lumber secured with plywood to the frame using six seven-inch lag
bolts into long studs in all corners and in the center of the vertical boards.
Plywood shall be a minimum of four-ply rated for exterior exposure, no less
than one-half inch in thickness and attached with tamper proof screws, no less
than three inches in length and spaced no more than eight inches on-center.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement may approve alternative methods to secure
windows, upon the owner presenting the following information:
         (a)   Type of material to be used.
         (b)   Thickness of material.
         (c)   Method that will be used to attach the material to the building
or structure.
   (D)   (1)   Boarding of a vacant or abandoned building or structure is to be
considered temporary and not a long-term method of securing the building or
structure.
      (2)   Boarding used to secure doors and/or windows for more than 30 days
shall be surface coated with an exterior grade paint matching the exterior of
the building or structure. By matching the exterior of the building or
structure, it reduces the blighting effect.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.79 CONTINUING MAINTENANCE, MANDATORY AND VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon finding a building vacant and abandoned, the Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, may issue to the owner an order for continuing
maintenance pursuant to the Town of Shirley's Unsafe Building Ordinance,
Minimum Housing Standards Ordinance and Minimum Standards for Non-residential
Properties Ordinance, as may be amended from time to time or pursuant to
similar authority granted by state statute, this subchapter, or other
ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   The owner of a building that is abandoned shall register the abandoned
property with the Code Enforcement Officer for the Town of Shirley.
   (C)   The owner of a building that is vacant, but not abandoned, as set
forth in this subchapter, may opt to register the building with the Code
Enforcement Officer, so as to notify the town of the property manager and
exchange of information pertinent to the condition of the building or
structure.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.80 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any building or structure required to be registered by
this subchapter shall maintain a policy of liability insurance for the building
or structure.
      (1)   A copy certificate or the liability insurance policy shall be
provided to the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   The minimum coverage required shall be $100,000 per occurrence and
$100,000 in the aggregate.
   (B)   The insurance policy shall require the agent or carrier to provide a
minimum of 15 business days' advance notice of cancellation to the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.81 REGISTRATION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The owner of a building that is vacant and abandoned shall register
the property with the Code Enforcement Officer upon receipt of an order for
registration. Registration shall be on a form provided by the Code Enforcement
Officer, shall be verified under penalties of perjury, and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Street address of the affected property.
      (2)   The name(s), mailing address(es) and telephone(s) of the owner(s)
or entities which hold an ownership, land contract, mortgage, or other lien
interest in the property, and all beneficiaries of any land trust which owns
the property.
      (3)   Copy of the most recently executed deed used to transfer title to
the property and the most recently prepared sales disclosure form, if available
to the owner.
      (4)   Name(s) and address(es) of all person(s) or entities which hold a
lien interest or a substantial property interest in the property.
      (5)   Property manager's information, if required, name, mailing address,
location address, if different from mailing address, telephone number that
provides 24-hour contact to the property manager.
      (6)   Name of insurance company providing insurance coverage for the
building or structure requiring registration, including the representing
agent's name, address and telephone number that provides 24-hour access.
      (7)   A written plan for maintenance and repair of the property,
including:
         (a)   A schedule which the owner anticipates completion of all repairs
required to bring the building and property into compliance with this
subchapter and other property maintenance ordinance.
            1.   The schedule shall not exceed 30 days unless it is
demonstrated to the Code Enforcement Officer that additional time is necessary
to avoid undue hardship to the owner due to the quantity of work required.
            2.   The owner's request for additional time shall be supported by
relevant documentation, including, but not limited to, bids, quotes for the
work, and the owner's financial statement, based upon a financial disclosure
statement.
         (b)   The owner's schedule of plan does not relieve the owner of any
order issued pursuant to the Unsafe Building Ordinance, Minimum Housing
Standards Ordinance or Minimum Standards for Non-Residential Properties
Ordinance.
         (c)   The Code Enforcement Officer's receipt of the plan does not
constitute approval of the owner's plan or of any violation of property
maintenance ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner is responsible for providing an updated registration
form to the Code Enforcement Officer within five business days of any change in
ownership or any information contained on the registration form.
      (2)   Failure of the owner to provide updated information within five
business days of any change in the registration is a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.82 REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any building or structure required to be registered
under this subchapter shall pay an annual registration fee to the Town of
Shirley through the Code Enforcement Officer, upon registration.
      (2)   Owners who voluntarily register a vacant building, but not
abandoned as defined in this subchapter, are not required to pay a registration
fee.
   (B)   Fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Buildings or structures used or zoned for residential purposes and
contains no more than two dwelling units the registration fee shall be $50.
      (2)   Buildings or structures used or zoned for non-residential purposes
shall be:
         (a)   $250 for the first year or any part thereof;
         (b)   $375 for the second year or any part thereof;
         (c)   $500 for the third and each subsequent year of any part thereof
that the property is required to be registered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   The registration fee is to reimburse the Code Enforcement Officer,
Fire Chief, or Police for the costs of monitoring the buildings or structures
and the additional costs of responding to emergencies and any property
maintenance cost incurred by the town for the vacant and abandoned building or
structure not covered by any other statue, law or ordinance.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.83 PROPERTY MANAGER.
   (A)   (1)   Owner(s) of a building or structure that is required to be
registered are a resident of the Town of Shirley or Hancock/Henry County may
act as the property manager or acquire the services of a property manager.
      (2)   If the owner who is a resident of the Town of Shirley or Hancock/
Henry County acquires the services of a property manager, the property manager
shall reside within 50 miles of the affected building(s) or structure(s).
   (B)   When the owner of a building or structure that is required to be
registered is not a resident of the Town of Shirley or Hancock/Henry County,
shall appoint a property manager that resides within 50 miles of the affected
property.
   (C)   The property manager shall:
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Be available to the Code Enforcement Office, Fire Chief, or Police
Chief by telephone 24 hour.
   (D)   The owner's failure to make the property manager available as required
is a separate violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.84 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Unsafe Building Board may grant an exception for properties to
register if:
      (1)   The property is the subject of an open probate estate; or
      (2)   Has suffered extensive fire or catastrophic damage within the past
90 days.
   (B)   Any exemption granted under division (A) of this section shall be for
a specific period of time, not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Exemption from the registration requirement shall not constitute
approval of any violation of this subchapter or the Unsafe Building Ordinance,
Minimum Housing Standards Ordinance or Minimum Standards for Non-Residential
Properties Ordinance.
(Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36- 7-9, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   (1)   An owner of a property that remains vacant or abandoned for at
least 90 consecutive calendar days may be liable for a civil penalty in the
amount of $500 per vacant or abandoned building or structure, not to exceed
$5,000 per building or structure per year, unless:
         (a)   Documentation has been filed and approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer that indicates the owner's intent to eliminate the vacant
or abandoned building or structure status of the property;
         (b)   The owner is current on all property taxes and special
assessments; and
         (c)   At least one of the following applies:
            1.   The structure is the subject of a valid building permit for
repair or rehabilitation and the owner is proceeding diligently and in good
faith to complete the repair or rehabilitation of the building or structure as
defined in the enforcement order issued by the Code Enforcement Officer.
            2.   The structure is:
               a.    Maintained in compliance with §§
150.75 et seq. and other application statutes, laws or ordinances; and
               b.    Actively being offered for sale, lease, or rent.
            3.   The owner can demonstrate that a diligent and good faith
effort to implement actions approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   If the building or structure continues to remain vacant or
abandoned beyond the initial 90 days described in division (B)(1) and the owner
does not meet any of the exceptions set forth in §
150.84, the Code Enforcement Officer may continue to assess penalties each year
on each building or structure in the following amounts:
         (a)   $1,000 for each second 90 calendar day period each building or
structure remains vacant or abandoned building or structure.
         (b)   $1,500 for the third 90 calendar day period each building or
structure remains vacant or abandoned building or structure.
         (c)   $2,000 for the fourth and each subsequent 90 calendar day period
thereafter for each building or structure that remains a vacant or abandoned
building or structure.
      (3)   A civil penalty under this division (B) may not exceed $5,000 per
building or structure per year.
(Ord. 060416, passed 6-4-16; Ord. 09092019B, passed 10-7-19)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Editor’s Note:  The applicable portions of the town located in Hancock County
will be governed by the Hancock County Subdivision Ordinance. The applicable
portions of the town located in Henry County will be governed by the Henry
County Subdivision Ordinance.
CHAPTER 152: ZONING REGULATIONS
Editor’s Note:  The applicable portions of the town located in Hancock County
will be governed by the Hancock County Zoning Ordinance. The applicable
portions of the town located in Henry County will be governed by the Henry
County Zoning Ordinance.
CHAPTER 153: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Applicability and scope
   
153.05   Prohibition
   
153.06   Enforcement
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the town's police power to
regulate the use or possession of property that might endanger the public
health, safety or welfare, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-2-4 and the Indiana Home Rule
Law, I.C. 36-1-3.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purpose:
   To prevent the development of wind energy conversion systems in the Town of
Shirley in order to preserve the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Shirley, Indiana.
   COUNTY. Hancock County and Henry County, Indiana.
   TOWN. The Town of Shirley, Indiana, including its four-mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction outside its corporate boundaries pursuant to Indiana State
Statutes.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM(S) ("WECS"). All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity to an electric utility's
transmission lines, including but not limited to one or more rotors, nacelles,
generators, WECS towers, electrical components, WECS Tower foundations,
substations, electrical cabling from WECS towers to substations, meteorological
towers, communications facilities, and other related facilities and equipment.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
§ 153.04 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   This chapter governs WECS projects that generate electricity to be sold to
wholesale or retail markets, except owners of WECS with an aggregate generating
capacity of 100 kilowatts (KW) or less and a WECS tower height not exceeding
100 feet, who locate a WECS entirely on their own property.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
§ 153.05 PROHIBITION.
   No person or entity shall construct or operate a WECS in the town, or within
the town's four-mile extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
§ 153.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the town in the same fashion as
enforcement of other ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 120118, passed 12-1-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES
   
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
III.   ANNEXATIONS
   
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1967- 6-30-  Granting a gas franchise to Fountaintown Gas Company to construct, erect,
1     67     maintain and operate gas distribution facilities within the corporate limits
             of the town for the purpose of supplying gas to the town.
             Granting Communicable, Inc. a franchise to maintain and operate a CATV system
10-3- 10-3-  for the interception, sale and distribution of television, radio and other
83    83     signals from the company’s antenna or studios to its subscribers, all in
             accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States, the State of
             Indiana and the regulations of the Town of Shirley for a term of 15 years.
02-   2-2-05 Renewal and extension of cable television franchise agreement with Alliance
02-05        Communications Partners, L.P. for an additional five years.
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Agreement between Town of Shirley and Phoenix Tank
                         Services, a division of Phoenix Fabrications and
—          - -         Erectors, Inc., which binds Phoenix for responsibility
                         for the care and maintenance of the water storage
                         tank.
                         Agreement between the Town of Shirley and the Public
—          - -         Service Company of Indiana, Inc., for overhead street
                         lighting service.
                         Agreement between the Town of Shirley and Greensboro
                         Township, Henry County, Indiana, in which Shirley
—          - -         agrees to provide free fire protection for all
                         residents who reside out of the corporation limits in
                         Greensboro Township, Henry County.
—          10-7-89     Agreement between the Town of Shirley and the Town of
                         Wilkinson for a municipal wastewater treatment system.
Res. 040718B 4-7-18      Adopting the second amended and restated agreement and
                         declaration of trust of the Aim Medical Trust.
—          7-19-18     Agreement between the Town of Shirley and the City of
                         New Castle for the trial of town ordinance violations.
Res. 051021B 5-10-21     Agreement between the Town of Wilkinson and the Town
                         of Shirley for interlocal ambulance agreement.
                        
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing the following tracts of land to the Woodlawn
                     Addition to the town: Tract 1, a part of the west half of
                     the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 17 North,
                     Range 8 East, containing Lots 2, 3, 4, and 5 in Block 9
                     and Lot 5 and a uniform width of 33.0 feet off of the
                     entire south side of Lot 6 in Block 8, all in Woodlawn
                     Addition; Tract 2, a part of the west half of the
9-5-89   9-5-89      southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 17 North, Range
                     8 East, lying partially within the town, containing Lot 7,
                     a uniform width of 27 feet off of the entire north side of
                     Lot 6 and a uniform width of 14 feet off of the entire
                     south side of Lot 8, all in Block 8 in Woodlawn Addition;
                     and North, Range 8 East. Tract 3, a part of the west half
                     of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 17 North,
                     Range 8 East.
                     Annexing real estate which is set forth in Exhibit A to
061996B  6-19-96     this ordinance which changes and expands the corporation
                     of the Town of Shirley.
                     Annexing certain territory which is set forth in Exhibit A
010618A  3-3-18      to this ordinance which changes and expands the
                     corporation of the Town of Shirley.
                     Annexing certain territory which is set forth in Exhibit A
010618C  3-3-18      to this ordinance which changes and expands the
                     corporation of the Town of Shirley.
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Vacating a portion of Center Street between First Street
R. 56R-1   5-7-56      and the first alley east of First Street, consisting of
                       a strip of land approximately 30 feet wide and 141 feet
                       long.
                       Vacating an alley 15 feet in width, the alley being
                       located between South Street and Lee Street, and the
R. 56R-2   8-6-56      alley running east and west and intersecting Meridian
                       Street and the first alley east of Meridian Street and
                       located south of the Shirley school building.
                       Vacating to Lamoine Harrell the alley running east and
6-5-89     6-5-89      west between Lots 756 and 757 in the Sowerwine Addition
                       to Lamoine Harrell.
                       Vacating to Met- Tech Corporation the alley running
4-2-90     4-2-90      north and south immediately adjacent to the eastern
                       boundary line of Lots 744, 745, 746 and 747 in the
                       George W. Sowerwien, Trustee’s Addition.
                       Vacating that portion of Shirley Street in the Woodlawn
                       Addition from First Street west to the edge of the old
10-19-94A  10-19-94    railroad property, running between Lot 4, Block 8 and
                       Lot 1, Block 9 for a distance of approximately 90 feet
                       to James E. Boese.
                       Vacating that portion of Shirley Street from Main Street
                       East to the old railroad right- of-way in the Woodlawn
10-19-94B  10-19-94    Addition for a distance of 145 feet width of 50 feet
                       between Tract 2 and 3 in the Woodlawn Addition in the
                       town.
080596     8-5-96      Vacating a public street known as North Street.
                       Vacating a dedicated 16 foot wide alley, a dedicated
080596B    8-5-96      public street known as White Street and a dedicated
                       street known as North Railroad Street.
                       Vacating a dedicated public alley which extends in an
                       easterly and westerly direction between First Street and
96-11-22   11-22-96    the first alley running north and south, which is west
                       of Second Street, consisting of an area 16 feet wide and
                       155 feet long.
090316     9-3-16      Vacating Illinois Street between Walnut and Half
                       Streets.
020821     2-8-21      Vacating Liberty Street, currently a part of Tech
                       Casting parking lot.
041221     4-12-21     Vacating a north/south alley between Main Street and
                       South 1st Street.
08-09-2021 8-9-21      Vacating a 40-foot by 140-foot lot in W.H. Wood's
                       Westlawn Addition.
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite               Code Section
1-1-1-5                 10.04
1-1-1-7                 10.12
1-1-1-8                 10.06
1-1-4-5                 10.05
1-1-5-1                 10.11
1-1-6-1                 10.08
3-10-2-2                30.02
3-13-9-1 et seq.        30.06
3-13-9-4                30.06
5-2-1-1 et seq.         33.06
5-2-1-9                 33.07
5-3-1                   30.07,
                        34.21
5-4-1-1                 30.03
5-4-1-1.2               30.03
5-4-1-8                 30.04
5-4-1-9                 30.04
5-11-13-1               32.04,
                        34.33
5-14-3                  34.01
                        32.04,
5-22                    34.20,
                        34.33
5-22-8-2                34.29
7.1-3-19-1—7.1-3-19 -1113.01
8-1-2-103               53.10
8-1.5-3-3               37.02
8-1.5-3.5               53.10
8-1.5-5                 37.03
9-13-2-1 et seq.        70.02
9-13-2-14               70.02
9-13-2-105              70.02
9-21                    70.02
9-21-1-3                71.11
9-21-4                  70.20
9-21-5-1 et seq.        Chapter 74, Schedule I
9-21-8-1                70.55
9-21-8-29               72.01
9-21-8-30               71.07,
                        72.01
9-21-8-31               71.06,
                        71.07
9-21-8-33               71.07
9-21-9-0.5              71.14
9-21-9-3                71.14
9-21-16                 70.60
9-21-17                 71.13
9-21-17-1               71.13
9-21-17-20              33.21
9-21-20-1 et seq.       70.02
9-32                    70.02
14-8-2-5.7              71.14
14-8-2-233.5            71.14
16-18-2-10              70.02
16-31-1-1 et seq.       70.02
21-1-3.3 et seq.        71.14
22-9.5-4-8              96.09
22-9.5-6                96.09
22-12-2-1 et seq.       112.02
22-13-2-3(b)            150.07
26-2-7                  53.12
31-11-6-1               31.22
31-37-3-4               130.03
Title 33                10.99,
                        36.01
33-6-3-1 et seq.        10.99,
                        36.01
33-19-5                 10.99,
                        36.01
33-35-3-1               31.21
33-35-3-2               31.21
34-24-3                 53.12
34-28-5-1               111.99
35-44.1-1-4             32.04,
                        34.33
35-45-5-1 et seq.       130.37
35-46-1-8               130.03
Chapter 36              51.01
36-1-3                  153.01
                        10.99,
36-1-3-8(a)(10)         70.99,
                        130.99
36-1-4-16               33.05
36-1-5                  30.07
36-1-12                 32.04,
                        34.33
36-1-21                 32.04,
                        34.33
36-5-1-2                11.07
36-5-2-1 et seq.        30.01
36-5-2-2                31.01
36-5-2-3                30.21
36-5-2-4.1              11.08
36-5-2-5                30.20
36-5-2-7                30.23,
                        31.01
36-5-2-8                30.24,
                        31.22
36-5-2-9.2              30.27
36-5-2-9.4              30.28
36-5-2-9.6              30.28
36-5-2-10               30.07,
                        30.28
36-5-2-10.2             30.08
36-5-3-2                30.25
36-5-6-1 et seq.        30.01
36-5-6-2                31.20
36-5-6-3                31.23
36-5-6-4                31.23
36-5-6-5                31.22
36-5-6-6                31.21
36-5-6-6(a)(7)          31.22
36-5-7-2                33.01
36-5-7-3                33.07
36-5-7-4                33.02
36-7                    30.07,
                        30.28
36-7-2-9                150.07
36-7-4-202(b)           150.02
36-7-9                  150.20,
                        150.99
36-7-9-7                150.26
36-8                    33.07
36-8-2-4                153.01
36-8-3-20               33.05
36-9-2-7                95.01
36-9-6-19               50.20
36-9-23-1 et seq.       52.17
36-9-23-31—36-9-23-34 53.13
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1995 Code Section        2003 Code Section
12.01                    11.01
12.02                    11.02
12.03                    11.03
12.04                    11.04
12.05                    11.05
12.06                    11.06
12.07                    11.07
12.08                    11.08
12.09                    11.09
20.01                    30.01
20.02                    30.02
20.03                    30.03,
                         30.06
20.04                    30.04
20.05                    30.05
21.01                    31.01
21.02                    31.02
21.05                    31.20
21.07                    31.21
21.08                    31.22
21.09                    31.23
22.01                    30.07
22.02                    30.08
22.03                    30.20
22.04                    30.21
22.05                    30.22
22.06                    30.23
22.07                    30.24
22.08                    30.25
22.09                    30.26
22.10                    30.27
22.11                    30.28
22.12                    30.28
22.13                    30.28
22.14                    30.29
23.01                    33.01
23.02                    33.01
23.03                    33.02
23.04                    33.02
23.05                    33.03
23.06                    33.06
23.07                    33.07
23.08(A)                 33.20
23.08(B)                 33.21
23.08(C)                 33.22
23.08(D)                 33.23
23.08(E)                 33.24
23.08(F)                 33.25
23.08(G)                 33.26
23.08(H)                 33.27
23.08(I)                 33.28
23.08(J)                 33.29
23.08(K)                 33.30
23.08(L)                 33.31
23.09                    33.04
23.09(1)                 33.45
23.09(2)                 33.46
23.09(3)                 33.47
23.09(4)                 33.48
23.09(5)                 33.49
23.09(6)                 33.50
23.09(7)                 33.51
23.09(8)                 33.52
23.09(9)                 33.53
23.09(10)                33.54
23.09(11)                33.55
23.09(12)                33.56
23.09(13)                33.57
23.09(14)                33.58
23.09(15)                33.59
23.09(16)                33.60
23.09(17)                33.61
23.09(18)                33.62
23.09(19)                33.63
23.09(20)                33.64
23.09(21)                33.65
24.01                    31.35
24.02                    31.36
24.03                    31.37
24.04                    31.38
24.05                    31.39
24.06                    31.40
24.07                    31.41
25.01                    32.01
25.02                    32.02
26.01                    32.03
27.01                    30.30
28.01                    32.20
28.02                    32.21
28.03                    32.22
28.04                    32.23
44.01                    114.01
44.02                    114.02
44.03                    114.03
50.01                    70.01
50.02                    70.02
50.05                    70.55
50.06                    70.56
50.07                    70.57
50.08                    70.58
50.09                    70.59
50.10                    70.60
50.15                    70.20
50.16                    70.21
50.17                    70.22
50.20                    70.35
50.21                    70.36
50.22                    70.37
50.23                    70.38
50.24                    70.39
50.25                    70.40
50.26                    70.41
50.27                    70.42
51.01                    Chapter 74, Schedule I
51.02                    Chapter 74, Schedule I
51.03                    Chapter 74, Schedule I
51.04                    70.03
51.10                    71.11
51.15                    71.12
51.25                    71.01
51.26                    71.02
51.28                    71.04
51.29                    71.05
51.30                    71.06
51.31                    71.07
51.32                    71.08
51.33                    71.09
51.34                    71.10
52.01                    72.01
52.02                    72.02
52.03                    72.03
52.04                    72.04
52.05                    72.05
52.06                    72.06
53.01                    71.13
54.01                    73.01
54.02                    73.02
54.03                    73.03
54.05                    73.04
54.06                    73.05
54.07                    73.06
54.08                    73.07
54.09                    73.08
54.10                    73.09
54.11                    73.10
54.12                    73.11
Chapter 55, Schedule I   Chapter 75, Schedule I
Chapter 55, Schedule II  Chapter 75, Schedule II
Chapter 55, Schedule III Chapter 75, Schedule III
56.01                    Chapter 74, Schedule II
56.02                    Chapter 74, Schedule II
61.01                    92.01
61.02                    92.02
61.03                    92.03
61.04                    92.04
61.05                    92.05
61.06                    92.06
61.07                    92.07
61.08                    92.08
61.09                    92.09
61.10                    92.10
61.11                    92.11
61.12                    92.12
61.99                    92.99
62.01                    50.01
62.02                    50.20
62.03                    50.21
62.04                    50.22
62.05                    50.23
62.10                    50.24
62.11                    50.24
62.12                    50.24
62.13                    50.24
62.14                    50.24
62.20                    50.25
62.21                    50.25
62.22                    50.25
63.01                    150.40
63.02                    150.41
63.03                    150.42
63.04                    150.43
63.05                    150.44
63.06                    150.45
63.07                    150.46
63.08                    150.47
63.09                    150.48
64.01                    91.01
64.02                    91.02
64.03                    91.03
64.04                    91.03
65.03                    90.01
66.01                    95.01
66.02                    95.02
66.10                    95.20
66.11                    95.21
66.12                    95.22
66.13                    95.23
66.14                    95.24
71.01                    113.01
71.02                    113.02
72.01                    112.01
72.02                    112.02
72.03                    112.03
72.04                    112.04
72.05                    112.05
80.01                    130.01
80.02                    130.02
80.06                    130.04
80.07(A)                 35.01
80.07(B)                 35.02
80.07(C)                 35.03
80.07(E)                 35.05
80.08(D)                 35.04
81.01                    130.20
81.02                    130.21
81.04                    130.22
81.05                    130.23
82.01                    130.05
82.02                    130.06
83.01                    130.35
83.02                    130.36
83.03                    130.37
90.01                    150.01
90.02                    150.02
90.03                    150.03
90.04                    150.04
90.05                    150.05
90.06                    150.06
                         
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
56R-1      5-7-56      T.S.O. IV
56R-2      8-6-56      T.S.O. IV
2016-01-02 1-30-16     32.04
040216     4-10-16     53.01 -
                       53.12
20170107B  1-7-17      34.03
040718B    4-7-18      T.S.O. II
060218A    7-7-18      34.32
—        7-19-18     T.S.O. II
030219A    3-2-19   53.01 -
                       53.12
11-04-2019 11-4-19     34.33
01-13-2020 1-13-20     34.33
051021B    5-10-21     T.S.O. II
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.           Date Passed Code Section
04- -02            - -         52.16,
                               Chapter 52 Appendix
10- -              - -         37.01
10-05-0_           - -         34.40—
                               34.46
040602             - -         52.01—
                               52.15
56-9               5-7-56      Chapter 74, Schedule II
56-10              5-7-56      Chapter 74, Schedule II
56-11              5-7-56      Chapter 75, Schedule I
1967-1             6-30-67     T.S.O. I
3-71               3-7-71      130.02,
                               130.04
3-73               4-2-73      Chapter 75, Schedule I
5-75               5-5-75      130.20
76-1               3-22-76     Chapter 75, Schedule II
2-7-77             2-7-77      Chapter 75, Schedule I
4-7-1977           9-7-77      Chapter 75, Schedule I
1-79               8-4-79      Chapter 74, Schedule II
3-79               10-6-79     Chapter 74, Schedule II
4-7-80             4-7-80      Chapter 74, Schedule II
10-5-81            10-5-81     Chapter 74, Schedule I
12-7-81            12-7-81     Chapter 74, Schedule I
7-12-82            7-12-82     71.09
10-3-83            10-3-83     T.S.O. I
7-2-84             7-2-84      Chapter 74, Schedule II
6-21-85            6-21-85     51.01,
                               51.99
8-5-85             8-8-85      Chapter 74, Schedule II
11-4-85            11-7-85     Chapter 74, Schedule II
3-3-86             3-3-86      70.41
9-8-86             9-8-86      150.02—
                               150.06
9-1-87             9-1-87      70.41
3-7-88             3-7-88      Chapter 74, Schedule II
3-6-89             3-6-89      90.01
5-1-89             5-1-89      71.10;
                               Chapter 75, Schedule III
6-5-89             6-5-89      T.S.O. IV
9-5-89             9-5-89      T.S.O. III
—                10-7-89     T.S.O. II
11-6-86-2          11-6-89     Chapter 74, Schedule II
3-5-90             3-5-90      Chapter 74, Schedule II
4-2-90             4-2-90      T.S.O. IV
1-7-61             1-7-91      91.03
9-7-91             9-7-91      150.40—
                               150.48
                               71.02,
8-24-92            8-24-92     73.09,
                               73.10
1394               10-3-93     114.01—
                               114.03
441994             4-4-94      32.20—
                               32.23
94623              6-23-94     Chapter 75, Schedule I
10-7-94            10-7-94     71.08
10-19-94A          10-19-94    T.S.O. IV
10-19-94B          10-19-94    T.S.O. IV
061996B            6-19-96     T.S.O. III
                               93.01,
070196B            7-1-96      93.03—
                               93.07,
                               93.99
080596             8-5-96      T.S.O. IV
080596B            8-5-96      T.S.O. IV
100796             10-7-96     Chapter 75, Schedule IV
96-11-22           11-22-96    T.S.O. IV
030397             3-3-97      33.05
040797B            4-7-97      72.06
040797C            4-7-97      95.25
070797             7-7-97      150.07
080398A            8-3-98      34.20—
                               34.30
080299             8-2-99      34.01
—                10-05-0_    31.55
1106-00            3-3-01      30.22
2001               3-3-01      Chapter 74, Schedule II
030302             3-3-01      Chapter 75, Schedule II
050501             5-5-01      Chapter 74, Schedule II
060201             6-2-01      Chapter 75, Schedule II
070701             7-7-01      10.99,
                               36.01
040602             4-6-02      Chapter 74, Schedule II
07-02-03           7-2-03      96.01—
                               96.10
02-02-05           2-2-05      T.S.O. I
10-15-05A          10-15-05    130.03,
                               130.99
060506             6-5-06      Chapter 74, Schedule II
03-05-07           3-5-07      34.31
12-30-09           12-30-09    37.03
050211             5-2-11      37.02
06-12-11           7-18-11     52.17
07-18-11           7-18-11     52.17
121813A            12-18-13    Chapter 74, Schedule II
121813B            12-18-13    35.04
020314             2-3-14      Chapter 75, Schedule II
                               10.99,
070715             7-7-15      36.02,
                               70.99
                               150.20—
060416             6-4-16      150.23,
                               150.99
060916             6-9-16      34.02,
                               34.03
070916-B           7-9-16      Chapter 74, Schedule I
                               33.04,
                               33.05,
                               33.23 -
                               33.26,
                               33.28 -
070916             7-15-16     33.31,
                               33.50,
                               33.54,
                               33.58 -
                               33.60,
                               33.62,
                               33.64
050716-Amended     7-15-16     71.14
060414-A           7-15-16     Chapter 74, Schedule III
090316             9-3-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-0909          9-9-16      53.13
20161203           12-3-16     Adopting Ordinance
                               93.01,
20170107           1-7-17      93.04,
                               93.06,
                               93.99
20170107A          1-7-17      53.01 -
                               53.12
20170107C          5-6-17      53.01 -
                               53.12
070717             7-7-17      34.31
                               111.01,
                               111.02,
050617             10-7-17     111.10 -
                               111.13,
                               111.99
010618A            3-3-18      T.S.O. III
010618C            3-3-18      T.S.O. III
2017-007-Amended-1 11-3-18     33.08
120118             12-1-18     153.01 -
                               153.06
120118-B           12-1-18     52.06
120118-C           12-1-18     52.17
020219             2-2-19      Chapter 75, Schedule IV
09092019B          10-7-19     150.75 - 150.84, 150.99
030920             3- -20      72.07
051120             5-11-20     Chapter 74, Schedule II
020821             2-8-21      T.S.O. IV
041221             4-12-21     T.S.O. IV
08-09-2021         8-9-21      T.S.O. IV
                              
 
