TOWN OF SIDNEY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains local legislation current through
Ord. 2021-11, passed 7-12-2021.
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
THE INDIANA BASIC CODE, 2018 EDITION PREFACE AND USER’S GUIDE
   The Indiana Basic Code has been designed specifically for smaller Indiana
towns.  This edition is current with state legislation through Advance
Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 5 of 2018.  The Indiana Basic Code reflects
American Legal Publishing’s continued efforts to provide a modern and
comprehensive code of ordinances for smaller Indiana towns without the expense
of a customized code of ordinances.
      Effect of Local Legislation on The Indiana Basic Code
   The Indiana Basic Code is intended to be adopted by towns as a model code of
ordinances.  The Code contains pertinent regulations concerning government
administration, traffic offenses, general regulations, business regulations,
general offenses, and land usage; however, towns are free to adopt and enforce
separate ordinances and resolutions.  Thus, although the scope of the Indiana
Basic Code in certain areas is nearly comprehensive, each town may have
additional legislation which has not been covered by the provisions of the
Indiana Basic Code.  For example, the town is likely to have legislation
concerning public works (sewer use, water regulations and the like) and land
usage (building regulations, flood damage prevention regulations, subdivision
regulations, zoning regulations and the like).  Such additional legislation
should be available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk, and
may be codified as part of this Code in Title XVII.
   Additionally, pursuant to the terms of §
10.14 of the Indiana Basic Code, the town is free to amend, add or repeal
sections of the Indiana Basic Code.  Such direct legislation would supersede
the provisions of the Indiana Basic Code, and should be available for public
inspection at the office of the Town Clerk or codified as part of this Code in
Title XVII.
      Arrangement and Numbering
   The Indiana Basic Code is divided into eight odd-numbered titles, each
devoted to a particular topic of municipal law.  The titles include the
following topics:  Title I - General Provisions; Title III - Administration;
Title V - Public Works; Title VII - Traffic Code; Title IX - General
Regulations; Title XI - Business Regulations; Title XIII - General Offenses;
Title XV - Land Usage; and Title XVII - Local Legislation.
   Titles are divided into chapters, and all chapters are subdivided into
sections.  A citation to a specific section identifies the title, chapter and
section number of the Code provision being cited.  For example, “72.11" refers
to section 11 of Chapter 72 in Title VII.  Title and chapter number appear to
the left of the decimal: the title number precedes the first digit to the left
of the decimal, and the chapter number constitutes all numerals to the left of
the decimal.  The section number appears to the right of the decimal.  Penalty
provisions have been given a section number of .99.
   Title XVII, which contains any local legislation, is organized as a micro
version of the Basic Code.  Each chapter corresponds to a title in the Basic
Code, making it easy for a code user to determine if local legislation
supersedes any provision of the Basic Code.
      Cross-references and Statutory References
   “Cross-references” direct the user to subject matter related to certain
Basic Code provisions contained within another section or chapter of the Basic
Code, while “Statutory references” direct the user to subject matter related to
certain Basic Code provisions contained within the Indiana Code (“I.C.”).
      Title and Chapter Analysis
   A Table of Contents, giving the name of each chapter within the title and
the respective chapter numbers, can be located on the first page of each
title.  A Chapter Analysis, giving section headings and the respective section
numbers, can be located on the first page of each Chapter.  Thus, if a user
wants to search for a specific provision regarding animals, the user could
bypass the general index and go directly to the Table of Contents at the
beginning of Title IX.  A quick scan down this Table of Contents would identify
Chapter 91 as “Animals.”  The user could then go directly to Chapter 91 and
scan the Chapter Analysis for the appropriate section heading.
      Parallel Reference Tables
   Two sets of Parallel Reference Tables may be included near the end of the
code:  one for the Basic Code, and one for Title XVII legislation (if any). 
These tables provide the following information:
   The tables entitled “References to Indiana Code” enable a user to trace the
origin of the law contained within the Indiana Basic Code or Title XVII. The
tables provide a comprehensive list of citations to the Basic Code or Title
XVII, and the corresponding state law provision upon which the Code section is
based.  The tables enable a user to quickly and accurately determine if a
particular Indiana Code section is the source for a Basic Code or Title XVII
provision.
   If a town includes local legislation in Title XVII, a table entitled
“References to Ordinances” will be located near the end of Title XVII.  The
table provides a listing of ordinances codified in Title XVII, and the
corresponding section in Title XVII, thus enabling a code user to quickly
locate the disposition of a local ordinance.
      Indexes
   An Index to the Basic Code, and a separate Index to Title XVII (if any) are
located near the end of the Code.  The Basic Code Index contains references to
all Basic Code provisions currently in effect.  Index entries do not cite page
numbers; rather, index entries cite section numbers.  If a town includes
legislation in Title XVII, a separate Index for the legislation will be located
near the end of Title XVII.
      Electronic Format
   Please note that in addition to this version, the Indiana Basic Code is
available on computer disk in a word processing format or in Folio VIEWS®
search and retrieval format. For ordering information, contact the publisher at
1-800-445-5588.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town
Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances,” or
“Code” may be substituted.  Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws.  Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code.  All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted.  The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.  These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.  This code shall be construed by the
following rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative
intent or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense.  Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate 
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL.  The Town Council.
      COUNTY.  The county or counties in which the town is located.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic.  Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP.  The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters.  Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable.  If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) of
this section does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices.  Reference to a public office or officer shall
be deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations.  Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides.  The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.  The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to an
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws. 
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.  The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted.  In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
   Cross-reference:
      Town property; firearms prohibited on, see Ch. 131
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
Cross-reference:
   Budgets, see §§
33.30 through
33.32
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Councilmembers
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.080   Majority vote; when required
   
31.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or
(g), the term of office of a member of the Town Council is 4 years, beginning
at 12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004  PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select 1 of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing.  As used in this clause,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council up
to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design, and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees. 
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation, or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make 1 initial exclusion of prospective appointees from further
consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration.  An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than 3 unless there are fewer than 3
prospective appointees.  Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials; and
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. 25.
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate, or respond to the threat of terrorism.
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than 1 executive session
per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section.  The requirements
stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given.  The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute.  A meeting may
not be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is
to be held.
§ 31.023  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting.  A
rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024  RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings.  The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026  CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members.  If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and
the Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President.  A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042  ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership.  In the event that the absence of
the President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Councilmembers to exercise their
right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Councilmembers may consider and
pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044  DUTIES OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than 5 minutes at any 1 time, except by
consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking.  The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion.  The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?”  Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded.  When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Councilmember seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049  VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council.  When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote. 
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Councilmembers is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.081
§ 31.050  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055  AMENDMENTS.
   Only 1 amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council.  The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed.  Finally, a vote shall be
taken on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter.  A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed.  A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion.  If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order.  If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions, or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting. 
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered, or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Councilmembers then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.080  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.081  TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a 2/3 vote means at least a 2/3 vote of all the
elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A 2/3 vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent of the
members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an ordinance of
the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is
introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Councilmembers adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.082  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council.  If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Councilmembers, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if the town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required.  If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect 2 weeks after the publication of the book
or pamphlet.  Publication under this division, if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published 1 time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) of this section apply only if
the municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice
that the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance
referred to in division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.083  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose. 
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer as Ordinance Violations Clerk, see §
34.02
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6.  The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02  ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or
3-10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office.  Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is 4 years, beginning at 12:00
p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council.  The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection.  These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05  OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06  VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Councilmember, who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer.  For purposes of Indiana Constitution
Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Councilmember serves as the ex officio
Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Councilmember:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Councilmember; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office.  A Town Councilmember may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-
1-7 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state
to assist the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.  The agreement may not
last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must
meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7.
   (D)   If an agreement cannot be reached under division (C) above, the Town
Council may enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.  The contract may not last longer than
the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council.  However,
before terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the
town for more than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training
requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9,
the Town Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures
prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23  SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24  DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals. 
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals.  Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer.  He
or she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and term
of service of deputy marshals.  The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal
at any time.  However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25  BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.30   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.31   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.32   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01  APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council.  Each appropriation must be made
from the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02  ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least 5 days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) of this
section must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05  PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION
LEAVE.
   One to 3 days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or employee
begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or she will
earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06  CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer.  However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.30  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses, and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 33.31  PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year.  The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer.  The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.32  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 34:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02  VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03  DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04  SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. 
Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail,
or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05  RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk.  Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06  DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07  FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08  COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37.  An ordinance violation costs fee
may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09  DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B), all sums collected by the Violations Clerk as
civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the
town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01  CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02  FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect.
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill.
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation regarding traffic and motor vehicles, see Title XVII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER.  A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing, 2 nontandem-
wheeled device that is designed to transport only 1 person and that has the
following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or 1
horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour when operated on a
paved level surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to
in division (1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing
170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana.  The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of 2 highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes 2 roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection.  If the intersecting highway also includes
2 roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of 2 roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled.  The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, or an electric personal assistive mobility device as those terms are
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with
the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. pt. 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm tractor
or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR.  An individual who operates a vehicle, motorboat, off-road
vehicle, or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder is
used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET.  See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE.  A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town.  All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate 1 particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly.  All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.21  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.  However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official control device
or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
device, railroad sign, or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.  No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.  A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Cruising prohibited
   
71.52   Posting of signs
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery. 
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at 1 or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as 1-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in 1 specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a 1-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delaying
to the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within 2 complete green-light
cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of other
motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a 5-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due to
the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than 5 miles per hour, and the delay in movement is due to the
position of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley, or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING.  The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic
control point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control
point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE.  The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER.  The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the
Town Police Department, or other town, county, or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE.  Any property
which is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a
street, alley, or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to
this subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT.  A location along a public street, alley, or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.51  CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited.  It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys,
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation.  Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic control point within the next succeeding 4 hours will be a violation of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations.  Any person who, after having received a
written warning under division (B) of this section, subsequently drives past or
is a passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the
next succeeding 4 hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone.  “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the
end of any public street, alley, or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01  NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon,
for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices, or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing,
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon.  The signs, devices, marks, or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks, or painting; and no person shall stop, stand,
or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY.  Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22, or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation.  If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing.  In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense.  The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.  A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least 3 model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.  For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD.  A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU.  The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY.  The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER.  The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department.  (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PARTS.  All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE.  A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(c))
§ 90.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C), the owner of an abandoned vehicle
or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of the costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or the parts
under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05  VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released.  A towing service shall notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section.  The notification
must include the name, signature, and address of the person that owns or holds
a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs, and the
date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06  PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C), and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns or
controls the private property, and a telephone number to contact for
information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) of this section, in an emergency
situation a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately.  As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) of
this section shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department, and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) of this section is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts.  Photographs may be taken to describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard.  A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard.  A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle.  The Police Department, Town Marshal, or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least 2 years.  If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or
parts.  After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be
towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section. 
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D), or
90.07(C) or (D), the Police Department, Town Marshal, or towing service shall
conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of vehicle
identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the
vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service.
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid.
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau. 
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09  TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10  LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11  LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §
90.06(C), (D), and (E), §
90.08, and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.20   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.21   Running at large prohibited
   
91.22   Dogs in heat; confinement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, 6 months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it
to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02  LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas, or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20  PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town.  Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22  DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.03   Filing complaint
   
92.04   Notice of violations
   
92.05   Appeals
   
92.06   Abatement by town
   
92.07   Liability
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
WEEDS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER.  The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION.  The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES.  Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum [i.e., allium], bur cucumber, and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
§ 92.02  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of 10
inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height on
at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.03  FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.  If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Councilmember of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 92.04  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition.  The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency.  This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail.  The notice shall provide
that, within 7 calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the
property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.05  APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice,  excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority.  It is the property owner’s responsibility to
demonstrate that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or
crops, or is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be
subject to destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Councilmembers in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.06  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within 7 calendar days and has not filed a notice within 48
hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement authority
may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.07  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorneys’
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town.  If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this chapter within the time specified
in this chapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of the
bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification. 
The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the
property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
chapter within the time specified in this chapter, the town may bring an action
in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any additional
costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees.  If the town obtains a judgment under this division, the town
may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or personal
property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official.  Application shall be made on
a form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
other facts as may be provided for.  The permit shall be issued only after a
cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited.  Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it.  If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least 2 illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved exceeds 50  feet in extent, at least 1 additional lamp for each added
50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town.  He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval. 
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding 1 year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond  for the faithful performance of the work.  The
town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.  No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for 5 years next preceding the date
of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official.  If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued.  However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year.  Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than 1 year.
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate.  Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least 10 days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been convicted
of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the
following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than 1 place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time he or she
is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately 3 inches by 4 inches in
size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3 inch in height.  For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.  If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   RESERVED
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01  PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02  SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises, or park.  The
town shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate
location for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant
premises, or park.
§ 131.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state, or federal law enforcement officer
while on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
§ 150.01  STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02  STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
PARALLEL REFERENCES FOR INDIANA BASIC CODE
References to Indiana Code
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section      Code Section
1-1-1-5           10.04
1-1-1-7           10.12
1-1-1-8           10.06
1-1-4-5           10.05
1-1-5-1           10.11
1-1-6-1           10.08
3-10-6            32.02
3-10-7            32.02
3-13-9-3          32.06
5-2-1-9           32.21,
                  32.24
5-3-1             31.082
5-11-10-1.6       33.04
5-11-10-2         33.03
5-14-1.5          31.020
5-14-1.5-3.5      31.024
5-14-1.5-3.6      31.024
5-14-1.5-4(a)     31.023
5-14-1.5-4(b)     31.024
5-14-1.5-4(c)     31.024
5-14-1.5-6.1      31.021
5-14-3-3          31.021
5-14-3-4(b)(12)   31.021
5-16-9            72.04
6-1.1-17          33.31,
                  33.32
6-1.1-17-3        33.30
8-1.5-3-4(d)      50.01
8-14-1            33.07
8-14-2            33.07
8-22-2            31.021
8-22-3            31.021
8-23-4            90.07
9-13-2-1          90.02
9-13-2-6          70.01
9-13-2-8          90.02
9-13-2-16         90.02
9-13-2-47         70.01
9-13-2-49.3       70.01
9-13-2-56         70.01
9-13-2-63         90.02
9-13-2-73         70.01
9-13-2-77         70.01
9-13-2-84         70.01
9-13-2-105        70.01
9-13-2-108        70.01
9-13-2-118        70.01
9-13-2-121(a)     70.01
9-13-2-121(c)     90.02
9-13-2-122        90.02
9-13-2-136        90.02
9-13-2-144        90.02
9-13-2-155        70.01
9-13-2-157        70.01
9-13-2-178        70.01
9-13-2-179        90.02
9-13-2-196(a)     70.01
9-13-2-196()      90.02
9-14-5            72.04
9-18-2            90.02
9-18-2.5          90.02
9-18-12           90.03
9-18-18           72.04
9-18-22           72.04
9-18.1            90.02
9-18.1-8          90.03
9-18.1-14         90.02
9-18.5-34         90.03
9-19              70.01
9-21-1-3          Ch. 71,
                  Ch. 72
9-21-5-6          Ch. 71
9-21-12-13        70.01
9-21-20-1         70.01
9-21-20-2         70.01
9-21-20-3         70.01
9-22-1            90.04
9-22-1-1          90.03
9-22-1-2          90.02
9-22-1-4          90.04,
                  90.08
9-22-1-5          90.05
9-22-1-7          90.05
9-22-1-8          90.05
9-22-1-11         90.07
9-22-1-12         90.07
9-22-1-13         90.07
9-22-1-14         90.07
9-22-1-15         90.06
9-22-1-16(a)      90.06
9-22-1-16(b)      90.06
9-22-1-17         90.06
9-22-1-18         90.07
9-22-1-19         90.08
9-22-1-21.5       90.11
9-22-1-31         90.09
9-22-1-32         90.10
9-22-6            90.04,
                  90.11
13-22             31.082
13-23             31.082
13-24             31.082
13-25-4           31.082
13-25-5           31.082
13-25-5-8.5(f)    31.082
16-18-2-110       70.01
16-22-8           70.01
22-13-2-3         150.01
25                31.021
25-37-1-11        Ch. 111
33-35-1           34.09
33-35-3-1         32.03
33-35-3-2         32.03
33-36-2           34.09
33-36-2-1         34.01,
                  34.02
33-36-2-2         34.02
33-36-2-3         34.03
33-36-2-4         34.09
33-36-3           34.03
33-36-3-1         34.04
33-36-3-2         34.05
33-36-3-3         34.06
33-36-3-5         34.07
33-36-3-6         34.08
33-36-3-7         34.09
33-37             34.08
33-37-4           34.08
33-37-7-6         34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq. 35.01,
                  35.02
34-13-3-12        35.02
35-47-5-13(a)     32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)   10.99
36-1-7            32.06
36-5-2-3(a)       31.001
36-5-2-3(b)       31.001
36-5-2-3(c)       31.001
36-5-2-3(d)       31.001
36-5-2-3(e)       31.001
36-5-2-3(f)       31.001
36-5-2-3(g)       31.001
36-5-2-4.1        31.082
36-5-2-4.2        31.081
36-5-2-6          31.002
36-5-2-7          31.004
36-5-2-8          31.026
36-5-2-9          31.003
36-5-2-9.2        31.025
36-5-2-9.4(a)     31.080
36-5-2-9.4(b)     31.081
36-5-2-9.6        31.080
36-5-2-9.8        31.081
36-5-2-10         31.082
36-5-2-10.2       31.083
36-5-3-3          33.30
36-5-3-4          33.31
36-5-3-5          33.32
36-5-4-2          33.01
36-5-4-3          33.02
36-5-4-4          33.03
36-5-4-6          33.04
36-5-4-7          33.05
36-5-4-12         33.06
36-5-4-13(b)      33.07
36-5-6-2          32.03
36-5-6-3(a)       32.01
36-5-6-3(b)       32.02
36-5-6-3(c)       32.02
36-5-6-3(d)       32.02
36-5-6-3(e)       32.02
36-5-6-3(f)       32.02
36-5-6-4          32.02
36-5-6-5          32.03
36-5-6-5.1        32.05
36-5-6-6          32.03
36-5-6-7          32.04
36-5-6-8          32.04
36-5-6-9          32.06
36-5-7-2          32.20
36-5-7-3          32.21
36-5-7-4          32.22
36-5-7-5          32.23
36-5-7-6          32.24
36-5-7-7          32.25
36-7              31.081,
                  31.082
36-7-9            150.02
36-7-9-2          150.02
36-7-9-3          150.02
36-7-10.1         Ch. 92
36-7-10.1-4       92.07
36-8              32.21,
                  32.24
36-9-30-3         90.07
 
TITLE XVII:  LOCAL LEGISLATION
   Chapter
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ADMINISTRATION
      
172.   PUBLIC WORKS
      
173.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
174.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
175.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
176.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
177.   LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 170:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   [Reserved for local legislation]
Editor’s note:
   See Title I of this code of ordinances
CHAPTER 171:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
171.01   Salaries for Town Council and Clerk/Treasurer
   
171.02   Nepotism in employment and contracting
Finance and Revenue
   
171.15   Electronic banking
   
171.16   Money transfers
   
171.17   Petty Cash/Change Fund
   
171.18   Credit card purchases and use
   
171.19   Materiality
   
171.20   Internal control standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 171.01  SALARIES FOR TOWN COUNCIL AND CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of
its own members and the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Council shall provide
reasonable compensation for other contract employees or services.
      (2)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in
the year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed
for the year 2021.
      (3)   The Town Council may provide that town officers and employees
receive additional compensation for services that:
         (a)   Are performed for the town;
         (b)   Are not governmental in nature; and
         (c)   Are connected with the operation of a municipally-owned utility
or function.
      (4)   Subject to the approval of the Town Council, operating of the
utility or function shall fix the amount of the additional compensation, which
shall be paid from the revenues of the utility or function.
   (B)   (1)   Any prior salary ordinance previously entered into by the Board
be, and they hereby are, amended to reflect a change in salaries as follows:
         (a)   Clerk/Treasurer: $3,100 annually;
         (b)   President: $1,600 annually; and
         (c)   Board member: $1,600 annually.
      (2)   These new salaries should be paid in the same regular payment
installments currently in effect for payments to Town Board members.
      (3)   The salaries set out herein shall be effective beginning January 1,
2021, and each year thereafter until such time as amended by subsequent
ordinance.
      (4)   Any prior salary ordinances of the town to the extent not modified,
changed or amended by this section, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.02  NEPOTISM IN EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town, in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents, and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a nepotism policy and a
contracting with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “Nepotism Policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy”), and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The Town Nepotism Policy is hereby established, by adopting the
minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including all future
supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to time, and
incorporating them by reference and making them a part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
   (D)   The Town Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established, by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21,
and including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law
from time to time, and incorporating them by reference and making them a part
hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and, therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-
5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act and, therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and to demonstrate compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee, or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
Nepotism Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Contracting with Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the Contracting with Unit by a
Relative Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   (1)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon the taking of any of these actions, the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-12-2021)
FINANCE AND REVENUE
§ 171.15  ELECTRONIC BANKING.
   (A)   The town shall immediately take all steps necessary to initiate the
use of electronic banking for the transfer, receipt, deposit and collection of
public funds.
   (B)   The town shall thereafter continue to utilize the electronic banking
process to ensure increased efficiency when transacting town business and
further, to provide convenience for its citizens when they engage in
transactions with the office.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.16  MONEY TRANSFERS.
   The Town Council hereby authorizes the use of electronic financial transfers
and electronic online banking services as needed.
   (A)   Electronic fund transfers.
      (1)   Electronic fund transfers. The town/town utilities is hereby
authorized to use electronic fund transfers for official business of the town.
      (2)   Authority of Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby
authorized and responsible for:
         (a)   Selecting the financial institution(s) to be used by the town
for electronic fund transfers;
         (b)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected
financial institution(s) for the town;
         (c)   Overseeing the use of electronic fund transfers for official
town business of the town;
         (d)   Maintaining the agreement and the relationship between the town
and the financial institution(s);
         (e)   Establishing appropriate security procedures for passwords,
codes, controls and other authorizations to protect and preserve the funds and
assets of the town; and
         (f)   Reviewing all transactions and confirmation in connection with
the use of electronic fund transfers for property authorization, documentation,
itemization and purpose.
      (3)   Administration of payments. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall not draw
a warrant for an electronic fund transfer unless:
         (a)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
         (b)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the town employee or
representative receiving the goods or services;
         (c)   The invoice or bill is filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer;
         (d)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer audits and certifies before payment
that the invoice or bill is true and correct; and
         (e)   All electronic fund transfers must be for official business of
the town and shall not be personal in nature.
      (4)   Scope of electronic fund transfers. Electronic fund transfers shall
include automated clearinghouse payments (ACH), wire transfers, direct deposit,
on-line banking transactions, telephone transfers and other electronically
authorized or implemented transfers or payments.
      (5)   Compliance. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
town shall comply with all other requirements regarding the payment of claims
by a political subdivision.
   (B)   Transfers and balances. The Council may transfer any part of an
unencumbered balance of an appropriation of any fund allowed by law to any
purpose or object for which the appropriation for the current year has proved
insufficient, except that no transfer shall be made of moneys raised or
appropriated for the payment of any bond or note of the town unless all
indebtedness, interest and other obligations, which must lawfully be paid from
such moneys, have been paid.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.17  PETTY CASH/CHANGE FUND.
   (A)   Cash Change Funds. A cash change fund in the amount of $75 is hereby
established within the General Fund for the town. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall be the custodian of the fund.
   (B)   Custodian of petty cash funds.
      (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to issue the warrants
necessary in the appropriate fund in order to maintain the funds established
upon a claim for same approved by the appropriate governing board.
      (2)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall use his or her Petty Cash Fund to
pay small or emergency items of operating expenses. A proper expenditure from
the Petty Cash Fund cannot be made without a receipt having been obtained for
said expenditure.
      (3)   At least quarterly, a claim with the appropriate governing board
attaching with it all original receipts totaling the cash claimed to be
expended so that the Petty Cash Fund may be reimbursed for these expenditures,
and the claim for reimbursement of the Petty Cash Fund shall be approved and
made in the same manner as is required for other expenditures of the town.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.18  CREDIT CARD PURCHASES AND USE.
   (A)   Credit card purchases.
      (1)   The Town Council authorizes the Clerk/Treasurer to obtain a credit
card(s) in the name of the town for the customary purchase of materials,
supplies and reservation and travel expenses for the town. The Clerk/Treasurer
is authorized to pay any annual fees for such credit card(s). The Clerk/
Treasurer shall endeavor to pay the monthly statement balance in full so that
finance charges are not incurred.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for and maintain control
over the credit card(s) and all invoices, receipts and documentation supporting
all charges and shall maintain a suitable accounting system to monitor the
possession, use and return of all credit card(s). The Clerk/Treasurer shall
verify each charge appearing on the monthly statement with the invoices,
receipts and documentation prior to payment. The Clerk/Treasurer shall assign
and pay the charges from the appropriate budget fund.
      (3)   The Clerk/Treasurer may provide the credit cards to certain town
employees to purchase materials, supplies or for reservation and travel
expenses deemed necessary to perform his or her task. Each town employee shall
immediately return to the Clerk/Treasurer copies of all invoices, receipts,
supporting charge documentation.
      (4)   No credit card issued in the name of the town shall be used by any
person for a private purchase.
      (5)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized
invoice or bill with certification of the Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Council
shall review and allow the claim at the next regular or special meeting
following the preapproved payment of the expense.
   (B)   Credit card usage.
      (1)   The Town Council approves the town to obtain a credit card to be
used for municipal purchases in which the municipality’s credit is used for
credit worthiness. This card will be secured in the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer and all policies currently pertaining to the usage of municipal cards
continue to be in effect.
      (2)   The number of cards on the account shall be capped at two and the
account’s credit limit shall be capped at $5,000.
      (3)   Further, the Town Council President will be granted access to
account information for the card and will sign off on any and all purchases on
a monthly basis made on the credit card.
   (C)   Employee credit cards.
      (1)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer, as the financial officer of the town, is
authorized to establish a credit card account in the name of the town with a
financial institution under terms and conditions deemed acceptable by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   A second credit card utilizing the same line of credit will be
issued to the second signer of the town bank accounts, the Town President.
      (3)   Issuance of an individual account credit card to a department
employee shall not be permitted unless and until such employee executes a
credit card use agreement on file in the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office. Such
agreement identifies that use of an account credit card shall be limited to
business purposes authorized by the town. Such agreement further exposes the
employee to personal liability for misuse of an account credit card issued to
such employee and establishes town remedies in the event of misuse. Under such
agreement, unauthorized use or misuse of an account credit card by an employee
shall result in such employee being held personally liable for such charges,
ancillary charges related thereto such as interest and penalties, and any costs
of enforcement and collection, including but not limited to reasonable attorney
fees. In the agreement, the town reserves the right to unilaterally revoke the
employee’s use of the town’s line of credit at any time upon delivery to the
employee of written notice of revocation signed by the Town Clerk/Treasurer. In
the event an employee’s use of an account credit card is so revoked or in the
event the employee’s employment with the town is terminated for any reason,
such account credit card issued to such employee shall be immediately
surrendered to the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office. Upon delivery of revocation
or termination of employment, such employee shall be prohibited from further
use of the town’s line of credit.
      (4)   An employee who is issued an account credit card may use such card
for permitted business travel expenses regarding meetings, conferences and
conventions, regarding mileage, parking and tolls, regarding meals, regarding
lodging and regarding airfare. In addition, use of an account credit card may
be made by an employee for additional, limited on-line business purchases if
pre-approved by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (5)   A claim filed by an employee with the Town Council in connection
with use of an account credit card must be itemized as provided in I.C. 5-11-10
and timely submitted for Town Council consideration, approval and payment by
the town. If a claim is not itemized or properly documented by an employee and
is rejected or denied by the Town Council, the employee shall be personally
responsible for payment of the claim until such time as the claim is
resubmitted with proper itemization or documentation. If any interest or
penalty is incurred due to a claim being rejected or denied because the claim
is inadequately itemized or due to late filing for timely consideration by the
Town Council to avoid interest or late charges being assessed to the town under
its agreement with a financial institution, the employee shall be personally
liable for any such interest or penalty charged to the town arising from such
employee’s use of the town’s line of credit.
      (6)   In addition to any remedies available to the town under the credit
card use agreement in the event of unauthorized use or misuse of an account
credit card by an employee, such employee may be subject to disciplinary
action.
      (7)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to seek an account line of
credit of up to $5,000 with the financial institution selected by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer. Each individual credit card issued to an employee as an
authorized town card holder shall have an individual number assigned to such
employee and shall have a maximum limit of $2,000 against said line of credit.
Upon recommendation by the Town Clerk/Treasurer and consent of the financial
institution, the maximum line of credit or the limit per card, as herein
established, may be adjusted from time to time by a resolution of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.19  MATERIALITY.
   The town hereby establishes this Materiality Policy under I.C. 5-11-1-10,
I.C. 5-11-1-21 and I.C. 5-11-1-27.
   (A)   Definition.MATERIALITY in the town is hereby defined as $5,000 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage or other
irregularity is equal or greater than $5,000, it must be reported to the SBOA.
This MATERIALITY definition is not limited to defalcations or suspicious
activity involving only cash transactions. If supplies, equipment or other
fixed assets belonging to the town are suspected of being misappropriated or
stolen or used in a manner not authorized by town officials and the value of
those supplies, equipment or fixed assets are approximately $5,000 or more,
that misuse or series of misuse should be reported. That is not to say that if
a loss or shortage is less than $5,000 it should be ignored. If there is an
individual or group of individuals that appears to be a structuring event to
defraud or misappropriate town funds or property, that event or series of
events should be reported to the SBOA. Occurrences falling under the
materiality threshold shall be investigated and resolved by the Clerk/Treasurer
and other town officials as necessary.
   (B)   Erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts. All
erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of town funds or
property, or funds or property the town holds in trust, shall be promptly
reported to the Clerk/Treasurer or his, her or their designee.
   (C)   Reporting of cash irregularities to State Board of Accounts. It will
be the policy of the Clerk/Treasurer to report to the State Board of Accounts
any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of cash in
excess of $5,000, except for inadvertent clerical errors that are identified
timely and corrected promptly with no loss to the town.
   (D)   Reporting of non-cash irregularities to State Board of Accounts. It
will be the policy of the Clerk/Treasurer to report promptly to the State Board
of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts
of non-cash items in excess of $5,000 estimated market value, except for those
resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are identified
timely and corrected promptly with no loss to the town, and except for losses
from genuine accidents.
   (E)   Establishment of materiality policy.
      (1)   Material variances, losses, shortages and thefts. All erroneous or
irregular material variances, losses, shortages or thefts of political
subdivision funds or property shall be reported immediately to the SBOA. For
all material variances, losses, shortages or thefts, the SBOA shall:
         (a)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to
the appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
         (b)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the condition; and
         (c)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body
or appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
            1.   The method of correcting the condition; and
            2.   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
      (2)   Notification of fiscal misconduct. If any town employee knows or
has a concern that other town employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his or her duty to immediately notify at least two members of the Town Council
or, if a Town Council member is involved, then notification should be made to
the Town Attorney. Following the procedure outlined in I.C. 5-11-1-9.5(a)(1),
the notification by the individual should be in the form of sworn statement (in
writing) that the individual believes the allegation to be true. Per I.C. 5-
1 1-1-9.5(b), the town may not retaliate against an employee of the town for
making a sworn statement on the subject of this fiscal misconduct.
      (3)   Immediate reporting by public official. All public officials who
have actual knowledge of, or reasonable cause to believe, that there has been a
misappropriation of public funds, in any dollar amount, must immediately send
written notice of the misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and the
local prosecuting attorney pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l).
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 171.20  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The town adopts as policy the internal control standard as set
forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards
for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual as expressly written and published by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended from time to
time.
      (2)   As required by statute, all erroneous or irregular variances,
losses, shortages or thefts of local government funds or property shall be
reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. The Town Council will seek
to establish an appropriate materiality threshold (dollar amount of variance,
loss, shortage or theft that requires reporting) and may approve or modify the
threshold amount as deemed appropriate. The Town Council will communicate the
materiality threshold in a detailed policy that shall distinguish between cash
and other types of assets, maintenance of documentation and resolution of
incidents that do not meet the materiality threshold.
      (3)   All appropriate town personnel will receive appropriate training on
the internal control standards and procedures. PERSONNEL is defined as an
officer or employee whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision or another
governmental entity. As required by statute, the fiscal officer of the town
(Clerk/Treasurer) will file annual certification of training with the State
Board of Accounts.
      (4)   The Clerk/Treasurer’s office, in coordination with the Town
Council, will develop, maintain and train personnel on internal control
standards and policies and all new personnel shall receive training timely. All
town officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply with the
policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
disciplinary action, up to but not, limited to termination of their employment.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish internal control
standards and procedures for the town, for the purpose of requiring appropriate
training of personnel regarding such standards and procedure, for the purpose
of adopting a policy regarding such standards and procedures; and for the
purpose of establishing a materiality threshold.
   (C)   Findings. The above recitations are adopted as findings of the Town
Council.
   (D)   Mission. The town further finds that its mission as related to an
internal control system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process
including, but not limited to, police and fire protection, access to town
utilities (sanitary sewer) and pursuit of economic development;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability and
transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement or errors.
   (E)   Objectives. The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping
objectives as related to internal control systems are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management and planning among others;
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and non-
financial information to those inside the government and those outside of the
government including by way of example filing the annual report, audit and
examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request among
others; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations
including by way of example following guidance documents such as the State
Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives and the Department of Local
Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT among others.
   (F)   Standards. The town adopts and directs the minimum level of control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (G)   Principles. The town adopts and directs the following principles in
explanation of the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the
town government.
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The Internal Control Committee, hereinafter named, town
department heads and the Town Council, as the fiscal body of the town,
(hereinafter collectively referred to as “management”) demonstrate a commitment
to integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The Internal Control Committee oversees the town’s internal
control system, while the Clerk/Treasurer, as the chief fiscal officer of the
town, shall implement and manage the internal control policies and procedures;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (H)   Internal control system. The town adopts the internal control
standards above so as to establish an effective internal control system for the
town through its design, implementation and operation.
   (I)   Safeguard of assets. The town directs that the above standards be used
to design, implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and
compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote
reliability, accountability and transparency of financial and non-financial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department and personnel (as defined below) for an effective and reasonable
internal control system of the town.
   (J)   Materiality threshold. The town hereby establishes and adopts a
materiality threshold of $5,000 for purposes of the internal control procedures
adopted and approved herein.
   (K)   Parties subject to compliance. The personnel, whether an official or
employee, of the town whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision or another
governmental entity shall comply with these minimum internal control standards
and procedures and any other policy regarding standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town now and as modified in the future.
   (L)   Training. The personnel of the town whose official duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to
funds that belong to the federal government, state government, a political
subdivision or another governmental entity shall be trained at least once
during a calendar year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the
minimum internal control standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town and shall cooperate with the town fiscal officer or designee so that the
fiscal officer can timely certify to the State Board of Accounts that the
training was received annually by the personnel as provided by law.
   (M)   Cooperation required. All elected and appointed officials and
employees of the town are hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in
the implementation of the internal control system of the town.
   (N)   Effect of non-compliance by employee. An employee who fails to abide
by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance and certifications
connected with the Internal Control System commits a violation of and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of the employee.
   (O)   Effect of non-compliance by an official. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation
and the mandated certifications of the Internal Control System may be subject
to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 172:  PUBLIC WORKS
Section
Garbage
   
172.01   Illegal to dump
   
172.02   Duty to maintain can or receptacle for refuse
   
172.03   Composition of cans or receptacles
   
172.04   Accumulation unlawful
   
172.05   Compost
 
   
172.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   See Title V of this code of ordinances
GARBAGE
§ 172.01  ILLEGAL TO DUMP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, deposit or abandon
any refuse, garbage rubbish or abandon or discard personal property including
appliances and/or car parts, at any place within the town limits within the
town, or to maintain or create a landfill of any type within said town limits,
except trash properly contained in receptacles for trash collection.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)  Penalty, see §
172.99
§ 172.02  DUTY TO MAINTAIN CAN OR RECEPTACLE FOR REFUSE.
   It shall be the duty of each occupant and every owner of every building or
premises in the town, where trash, garbage and table scraps or other refuse is
created or accumulated to provide and maintain a garbage can or receptacle for
such refuse and each owner and occupant of the building is hereby required to
maintain such garbage can or receptacle.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)  Penalty, see §
172.99
§ 172.03  COMPOSITION OF CANS OR RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage cans or receptacles shall be metal or plastic, or of such other
material to be non-leakable and with a cover thereon sufficient to prevent the
contents of such garbage can or receptacle from being spilled or otherwise
removed in any manner other than intentional removal of the contents at the
direction of human hands, and the same shall be kept covered at all times
except when the contents therein are being deposited or removed therefrom for
the purposes of depositing in a garbage truck or other proper and appropriate
refuse site.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)  Penalty, see §
172.99
§ 172.04  ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL.
   All accumulations of ashes, cans, bottles, metal, wood, paper, glass, table
scraps, foodstuffs, bones and similar small trash shall be placed in a garbage
can or other receptacle as provided herein and shall not be allowed to
accumulate on the premises for a period in excess of 14 days with the exception
of holidays and weather-related issues.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)  Penalty, see §
172.99
§ 172.05  COMPOST.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be lawful, and
not in violation of this subchapter, for a person or persons to deposit rinds
or other vegetation or table scraps in the ground for purposes of preparing a
compost bed, so long as such materials are worked into the ground, decomposed
and are for the purposes of a compost bed. It shall, however, be unlawful for a
person or persons or the owner of any premises to allow noxious odors to
emanate from any such compost bed and the owners and occupants of real estate
within the town shall not allow noxious odors to emanate from any compost bed.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 172.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm or corporations who violates any provisions
of §§
172.01 through
172.05 by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby or who
fails to do any act required thereby or who fails to do any act which §§
172.01 through
172.05 declares such failure to be unlawful, shall be subject to a fine in the
amount of not less than $10 for each such violation nor more than $25 for each
such violation and each such day as such violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation of §§
172.01 through
172.05.
(Ord. 2-1982, passed 7-12-1982)
CHAPTER 173:  TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
173.01   Off-road vehicles (not including golf carts)
§ 173.01  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES (NOT INCLUDING GOLF CARTS).
   (A)   A person may not operate an off-road vehicle on any public property,
highway, path or sidewalk.
   (B)   A person may not operate:
      (1)   On a public sidewalk;
      (2)   On a town road;
      (3)   On a highway designated for regular vehicular traffic;
      (4)   While carrying more persons at one time than the number for which
it is designed; or
      (5)   That has been structurally or mechanically altered from the
original manufacturer’s design.
   (C)   An owner may not authorize or knowingly permit a person to operate an
off-road vehicle in violation of this section.
   (D)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 174:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Animals
   
174.01   Regulations concerning animals
   
174.02   Prohibiting the keeping of certain animals with the town; running at
large
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
174.15   Definition
Fire Protection
   
174.30   Fire protection without a contract
 
   
174.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   See Title IX of this code of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Spay/neuter requirements, see I.C. 91-02
ANIMALS
§ 174.01  REGULATIONS CONCERNING ANIMALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OWNER. A person who is the owner, keeper or custodian of any dog or other
animal.
      PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipally owned property.
   (B)   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the town in any way; any
person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any such animal
within the town shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animals or vicious
animals of any kind to run at large within the town; exhibition, parading or
harboring of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be
conducted or done only upon securing a written permit from the Board of
Trustees of the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals which disturb the
peace by loud noises at any time of day or night.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goats,
rabbits or poultry or similar animals to run at large within the town. It shall
further be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in any of the streets of
the town.
   (F)   No domestic animal affected with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of humans or beast may be affected.
   (G)   No person shall cause or allow any place where any animal is or may be
kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to keep any
live swine or pigs within the town. It shall further be unlawful to keep or
have any sheep or goats within the town, or any cattle or chickens, horses,
ponies, burros, donkeys, mules, fowl or other similar animals anywhere within
the town.
   (H)   No dog shall be permitted to run at large within the town at any time;
and it shall be the duty of the registered owner of every dog to keep said dog
safely confined to the premises of the registered owner of said dog.
   (I)   Any dog found in the town running at large is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (J)   No person owning any dog shall suffer or permit such dog to disturb
the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making other loud or
unusual noises, or by running through or across cultivated gardens, fields or
lawns.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor any dog over the age of six
months within the town, unless such dog has been inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian within the preceding year.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle containing livestock
at any place in the town for a period of time longer than one-half hour, except
for loading or unloading of said vehicle.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-13-1994)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.02  PROHIBITING THE KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS WITH THE TOWN; RUNNING AT
LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain or suffer to
be kept or maintained any livestock upon any property or premises in the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      KEEPING LIVESTOCK or MAINTAINING LIVESTOCK. The keeping or harboring of
any such animals defined in the definition of LIVESTOCK below, upon any one lot
or unit of real estate.
      LIVESTOCK. Domestic or other animals, including, but not limited to,
cows, horses, donkeys, mules, pips, goats, sheep, geese, ducks, turkeys, rats,
ponies, monkeys; provided further, that the term LIVESTOCK shall not include
dogs and cats.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to any person charged with the violation of
division (A) above that the property or premises within the corporate limits of
the town upon which said person or persons are charged with maintaining or
suffering to be kept or maintained any such animal, is zoned agricultural by
the County Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall permit any dog, dogs, cat or cats owned,
harbored or kept by such person to be at large within the town.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         AT LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises
under the control of or occupied by the owner of the animal and not under the
control of the owner, a member of his or her immediate family 12 years of age
or older or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
         OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping
any animal.  The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed
animal remains or to which it customarily returns for a period of ten days or
more, is deemed to be harboring, maintaining or keeping the animal.
   (E)   This section shall neither limit or otherwise curtail the right of
said town or any private person from maintaining an action for legal or
equitable relief against a public or private nuisance within the terms of this
section.
(Ord. 1982-5, passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 2010-62, passed 6-14-2010)  Penalty, see
§
174.99
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 174.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and to add to the provisions in §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this code of ordinances, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS and/or RANK VEGETATION. Any vegetable matter, weed or grass, that is
not cultivated in plant beds by the landowner, and which exceeds the height of
six inches. Notwithstanding the forgoing, such definition shall not include
trees, such definition shall not include bushes or shrubs which have been
planted and cultivated by the landowner, and provided further, such definition
does not include agricultural crops such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 10-13-2003)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 174.30  FIRE PROTECTION WITHOUT A CONTRACT.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to comply with I.C. 36-8-13-3(b).
   (B)   Jackson Township shall provide fire protection services to the town
without a contract.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 174.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
174.01 shall suffer a forfeiture of money in a sum of not less than $10 nor
more than $100, together with the costs of any action filed to recover said
forfeiture, including any attorney fees the town incurs in enforcing §
174.01.
      (2)   Each day any violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall render the person responsible for such
offense subject to a forfeiture for each day.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or persons violating §
174.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than  $2 nor
more than $50 for each day during which said offense shall have been committed.
      (2)   Each violation of §
174.02 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1982-5, passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 1994-2, passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 2010-62,
passed 6-14-2010)
CHAPTER 175:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   [Reserved for local legislation]
Editor’s note:
   See Title XI of this code of ordinances
CHAPTER 176:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
176.01   Weapons
 
   
176.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   See Title XIII of this code of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Carrying a handgun without being licensed; exceptions; person convicted of
domestic battery,
     see I.C. 35-47-2-1
   Criminal law and procedure, see I.C. Title 35
§ 176.01  WEAPONS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person or person; to
discharge a firearm of any type within the town limits.
   (B)   Exception. Excepted from this section shall be any peace or police
officer of the state or its political subdivisions, who discharges a firearm in
the course of his or her duties as such peace or police officer.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIREARM. Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullet
by the action of gun powder exploded within it and shall also include all guns,
rifles, pistols, BB guns, air rifles and pellet guns.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 9-1-1982)  Penalty, see §
176.99
§ 176.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating §
176.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum of not less than $10
nor more than $50.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 9-1-1982)
CHAPTER 177:  LAND USAGE
Section
Mobile Homes
   
177.01   Intent
   
177.02   Defined
   
177.03   Requirements
   
177.04   Violation
   
177.05   Compliance
Zoning
   
177.20   Regulations adopted by reference
 
   
177.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   See Title XV of this code of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Unsafe Building Law, see I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28
MOBILE HOMES
§ 177.01  INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to keep the corporate limits of the town in
a sightly appearance in an effort so that the real estate within the town does
not detract from the general appearance of the town.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)
§ 177.02  DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure which is designed or constructed in such a manner
that it will permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling for one or more
persons, which is both used and occupied as a dwelling and which has a self-
contained toilet, sink and bath or shower facilities and which has no
foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting or other temporary supports.
(I.C. 13-1-7-2)  (Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)
§ 177.03  REQUIREMENTS.
   Before any individual who intends to move or have moved a mobile home into
the corporate limits of the town, that individual shall first approach the Town
Board and provide sufficient proof to the Town Board of each of the following:
   (A)   The mobile home is less that five years old;
   (B)   The mobile home will be placed on a concrete slab;
   (C)   The mobile home, within 30 days of being moved into the corporate
limits of the town will be properly tied down in accordance with industry
standards;
   (D)   The mobile home will be properly skirted with skirting around the
entire mobile home within 30 days of the date the mobile home is moved into the
corporate limits of the town; and
   (E)   Once the mobile home is installed, that it will be properly kept up
and maintained and will not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)  Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.04  VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of a member of the Town Board to provide an alleged
violator of this subchapter notice to comply with this subchapter prior to the
Town Board’s enforcement of the same. If an alleged violator fail to comply
with this subchapter within 15 days of receipt of this subchapter, said
individual will be considered to have violated this subchapter and be subject
to prosecution as a result thereof.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)  Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.05  COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty of any person, persons, firm or corporation who
purchases a mobile home that is currently in the corporate limits of the town,
to comply with §
177.03(D) regarding skirting and §
177.03(C) regarding tie downs and §
177.03(E) regarding maintenance to avoid unsightliness.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)  Penalty, see §
177.99
ZONING
§ 177.20  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   (1)   A communication tower, public or private, must be constructed
with a fall radius measured by the height of the tower, plus the height of any
accessory structures attached to the tower, so that the fall radius does not
overlap with any adjacent properties or rights-of-way.
      (2)   The fall radius must be within the ownership lines of the tract
upon which it is located,  excepting rights-of-way.
      (3)   A communication tower and its attachments may extend beyond the
property lines only with the written consent from a property owner upon whom
the fall radius of the tower and attachments would impinge.
      (4)   Any waiver must be in writing, in recordable form.
      (5)   No communication tower shall be erected within the town limits in
violation of the fall radius requirements.
      (6)   All communication towers shall be either monopole or self-support
lattice towers. No guyed wires shall be permitted.
      (7)   A permit must be applied for and received from the Clerk/
Treasurer’s office for the construction of any communication tower, to verify
that it meets the standards of this division (B), and all such permits are
conditioned upon state and federal approvals and standards.
      (8)   Violation of this section may be enforced by injunctive relief on
the part of the town. The construction or erection of a communication tower
contrary to this section shall constitute a public nuisance and infringement
upon the health safety and welfare of the citizens of the town. Any enforcement
of this section by the town shall be with attorney fees and all related costs.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 177.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation who violates the
provisions of §§
177.01 through
177.05 by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby or who
fails to do any act required thereby or fails to do any act which provisions
declare such failure to be unlawful, shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $50 for each violation nor more than $75 for each violation and each such
day as such violation continues shall constitute a separate violation of §§
177.01 through
177.05.
      (2)    Further, any person, persons, firm or corporation who fails to
comply with the duties imposed by §§
177.01 through
177.05 within 30 days shall be responsible to immediately, at their expense and
cost, remove the mobile home from the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1992-2, passed 8-26-1992)
PARALLEL REFERENCES FOR TITLE XVII
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
5-11-1-9.5(a)(1)           171.19
5-11-1-9.5(b)              171.19
5-11-1-10                  171.19
5-11-1-21                  171.19
5-11-1-27                  171.19
5-11-1-27(l)               171.19
13-1-7-2                   177.02
Title 35                   Ch. 176
35-47-2-1                  Ch. 176
36-1-5-4                   171.02
36-1-20.2                  171.02
36-1-21                    171.02
36-4-6-11                  171.02
36-5-2-9.4                 171.02
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 Ch. 177
36-8-13-3(b)               174.30
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     172.01—
2-1982   7-12-1982   172.05,
                     172.99
3-1982   9-1-1982    176.01,
                     176.99
1982-5   11-15-1982  174.02,
                     174.99
                     177.01—
1992-2   9-26-1992   177.05,
                     177.99
1994-1   6-13-1994   174.30
1994-2   6-13-1994   174.01,
                     174.99
2003-4   10-13-2003  174.15
2010-62  6-14-2010   174.02,
                     174.99
2021-1   7-12-2021   177.20
2021-2   7-12-2021   171.02
2021-4   7-12-2021   171.18
2021-5   7-12-2021   171.19
2021-6   7-12-2021   171.20
2021-7   7-12-2021   171.15
2021-8   7-12-2021   171.01
2021-9   7-12-2021   171.16
2021-10  7-12-2021   173.01
2021-11  7-12-2021   171.17
                    
 
 
