COUNTY OF SPENCER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-14-2025
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-07
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF SPENCER, STATE
OF INDIANA REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE SPENCER COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of County of Spencer as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Spencer County, Indiana.”
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
   SPENCER COUNTY, INDIANA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   County Council and Board of Commissioners
      31.   Employees and Officials
      32.   Organizations
      33.   Public Safety and Law Enforcement
      34.   Emergency Management
      35.   Fees and Finance
      36.   Taxation
      37.   General Administrative Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Sewage
      51.   Garbage, Collection, and Disposal
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Recreational Vehicles
      72.   Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
      91.   Animals
      92.   Fair Housing
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Provisions
      111.   Retail Food Establishments
      112.   Body Art Establishments
      113.   Massage Parlors
      114.   Adult Entertainment; Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Offenses Against Public Peace
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Building Regulations; Construction
      152.   Housing and Street Numbering
      153.   Drainage; Stormwater Management
      154.   Flood Regulations
      155.   Solar Energy Systems
      156.   Subdivision Regulations
      157.   Zoning Regulations
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
      I.   Franchises and Agreements
      II.   Annexation and Incorporations
      III.   Land Vacations
      IV.   Land Dedications
      V.   Zoning Map Changes
      VI.   Lease Agreements; Purchases
      VII.   Interlocal Agreements
      VIII.   Streets and Alleys
      IX.   Public Property
      X.   Economic Development Areas; Revitalization
      XI.   Master Development Agreements
      XII.   Establishment of Funds
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   Section 3.   This Codification incorporates ordinances adopted in 2023 prior
to March 31, 2023. All ordinances adopted before March 31, 2023, pertaining to
the subjects treated in such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from
and after the effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and
reordained in whole or in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not
affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior
to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the
provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Spencer County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk of Spencer County, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of
such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance adopting the codification shall not invalidate
the following ordinances that have not yet been included in the compilation of
ordinances.
         ORDINANCE NO. 2023-03: AN ORDINANCE REGARDING PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC
CAMERAS;
         ORDINANCE NO 2023-04: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE 2021-11 BY
IMPOSING A MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
         ORDINANCE NO. 2023-05: ORDINANCE FOR HEAL TH DEPARTMENT COLLECTION OF
ENVIRONMENTAL FEES
         ORDINANCE NO. 2023-06: PROHIBITION OF WEAPONS IN COUNTY BUILDINGS
   Section 7.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of Spencer County, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 5th day of September 2023.
                                           /s/ Thomas Brown
                                              Thomas Brown, President
                                           /s/ Heather Gries
                                             Heather Gries
                                           /s/ Jim Seiler
                                             Jim Seiler
ATTEST
/s/ Melissa Bunner
Melissa Bunner, Auditor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Spencer
County Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if
it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended, subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      COUNCIL. The County Council.
      COUNTY CLERK. The elected Clerk of the Courts.
      COUNTY. The County of Spencer, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township, or townships, in which the county is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division, or part of every section, is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance, or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no
meaning can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or
words, was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
   (B)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations, or any requirement of notice,
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising, or acts committed, prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly, or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   RESERVED
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   FEES AND FINANCE
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY COUNCIL AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Board of Commissioners; County Council election districts
   
30.02   Electronic meetings policy
§ 30.01 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY COUNCIL ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The county is divided into three County Board of Commissioner election
districts, designated numerically as follows.
      (1)   District One. This district shall consist of all of Luce (precincts
1, 2, and 3) and Ohio Townships (precincts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6), with a total
population of 7,231.
      (2)   District Two. This district shall consist of all of Carter
(precincts 1, 2, 3, and 4), Clay (precincts 1, 2, and 3), Grass (precincts 1
and 2), and Jackson Townships, with a total population of 8,006.
      (3)   District Three. This district shall consist of all of Hammond
(precincts 1 and 2), Harrison (precincts 1 and 2), and Huff Townships, with a
total population of 4,573.
   (B)   The county is divided into four County Council election districts,
designated numerically as follows.
      (1)   District One. This district shall consist of all of Luce (precincts
1, 2, and 3), Grass (precincts 1 and 2), and Jackson Townships, and precinct 1
in Clay Township, with a total population of 4,935.
      (2)   District Two. This district shall consist of Ohio Township
(precincts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6), with a total population of 4,842.
      (3)   District Three. This district shall consist of precincts 1, 2, and
3 in Carter Township and precincts 2 and 3 in Clay Township, with a total
population of 5,097.
      (4)   District Four. This district shall consist of all of Hammond
(precincts 1 and 2), Harrison (precincts 1 and 2), and Huff Townships, and
precinct 4 in Carter Township, with a total population of 4,936.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 30.02 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the state law regarding public meetings (the
“Open Door Law”) (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.), including definitions, apply to
this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Board, and applies to the Board and any committee appointed directly by
this Board or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is any executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe, the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at the same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes of a meeting, at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication, must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Board may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Board may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Board’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-03, passed 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   County Personnel Policies Handbook
   
31.02   Travel, conference expenses incurred by county officials, employees
   
31.03   Reimbursement of mileage incurred of authorized county engagements
   
31.04   Drug-free workplace policy
   
31.05   Retention of duty weapons; retired Sheriff’s Office personnel
   
31.06   Highway Department; vacation time, notice, attendance
   
31.07   Crime insurance policy
   
31.08   Leave; death of an immediate family member
   
31.09   Policy on purchase of food and beverages for departments
   
31.10   Direct deposit
   
31.11   Conflicts of interest policy
Appointed Officials
   
31.25   ADA Coordinator, Co-Coordinator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNTY PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The County Personnel Policies Handbook, and any and all amendments made
thereto by ordinance by the county, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 2018-09.1, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-20-2019; Ord. 2020-
02, passed 3-3-2020; Ord. 2021-09, passed 6-1-2021; Ord. 2021-13, passed 11-16-
2021; Ord. 2022-06, passed 7- -2022)
§ 31.02 TRAVEL, CONFERENCE EXPENSES INCURRED BY COUNTY OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   In each case in which an attendee is scheduled to attend a
meeting requiring out-of-county travel which would otherwise be permitted to be
reimbursed from already-budgeted amounts, or is required to attend meetings
called by the State Board of Accounts to be paid without appropriation, the
attendee may estimate, in advance, the amount of legally-reimbursed expenses
for lodging to be incurred in attending said conference or meeting, and apply
for, and receive payment from, the County Auditor in the amount of said
estimate made out to the hotel. County law enforcement officers may draw an
advance up to $500 made out to the officer for travel pertaining to extradition
and transport of a prisoner. Advances of no more than $500 are hereby approved
in advance, subject to the provisions of division (B) below.
      (2)   No lodging allowances will be paid by the county for attendance at
meetings, training, or conferences that are held 50 miles or less from the
County Courthouse.
   (B)   (1)   Within one week of returning from the conference or meeting, any
attendee who has so received advance funding of his or her expenses shall file
a claim, in accordance with the statutory requirements, for the actual expenses
incurred in attending the conference or meeting, and the amount of the
estimated expenses previously received. Any balance of the estimated expenses
over and above the actual expenses incurred shall be paid promptly by the
attendee to the County Auditor. If the actual expenses incurred exceed the
estimated expenses advanced, upon approval of the claim, the balance remaining
shall be paid to the attendee. All payments shall be made and reconciled based
on the expenses actually incurred by the individual, unless otherwise required
by state statute. Each request for reimbursement shall be submitted on County
Form 17. In case of a state-called meeting, certification must be received
before reimbursement; otherwise, a notice of training or agenda will be
required.
      (2)   Actual reimbursable expenses are set out as follows.
         (a)   Lodging expenses at a single-occupancy rate or government rate.
Double occupancy will be paid when a room is shared by employees. Room sharing
is encouraged.
         (b)   Parking fee reimbursement of actual cost, with a maximum of $50
per day.
         (c)   Over-night travel meal reimbursement of actual cost, with a
maximum of $60 total per day. Receipts need to be itemized when possible.
         (d)   Day-travel meal reimbursement of actual cost with a maximum of
$30. Receipts need to be itemized when possible. No meal reimbursement will be
paid for travel within the county.
         (e)   Mileage based on odometer reading at a rate set by the County
Council. Mileage for personal use will be excluded.
         (f)   Air travel must have prior approval by the Board of
Commissioners, and will be reimbursed at the coach rate.
         (g)   No reimbursement for expenses incurred by out-of-state travel,
unless it has received prior approval by the Board of Commissioners, except for
when it pertains to an extradition by county law enforcement officers.
      (3)   The following specific reimbursement limitations shall apply, and
will not be reimbursed:
         (a)   Movies;
         (b)   Alcoholic beverages;
         (c)   Personal telephone calls (excepting one to home);
         (d)   Entertainment cover charges; and
         (e)   Similar expenses.
      (4)   If, for any reason, an attendee fails to attend a conference or
meeting for which the attendee has drawn estimated expenses, the attendee shall
repay to the County Auditor the entire amount of the estimated expenses drawn.
If registration fees have been pre-paid and are not refundable, the amount of
the non-refundable fees shall be repaid by the attendee. Repayment shall be
made no later than two days after the failure to attend said conference or
meeting.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-6-2009; Ord. 2018-10.1, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-
08, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 31.03 REIMBURSEMENT OF MILEAGE INCURRED OF AUTHORIZED COUNTY ENGAGEMENTS.
   (A)   The County Council, having hereby assessed the fiscal burden relating
to modifying the monetary amount for mileage reimbursement for county officers
and employees, has determined that said amount should be commensurate to the
prevailing state mileage rate, currently set as $0.36 per mile.
   (B)   The County Council, acting as the fiscal body, hereby sets the county
mileage rate to be equal to the rate of the state.
   (C)   As the state adjusts the mileage rate from time to time, the county’s
mileage rate shall remain at the state’s rate, without amendment to this
section.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 31.04 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   Overview.
      (1)   The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working
environment; to ensure that employees, equipment, and operating practices
comply with health and safety standards; and to maintain public confidence in
the county and its employees.
      (2)   Since the county values each employee, the county offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems, thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action, up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action,
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local
laws or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
812) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11-1308.15), and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police, and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. 8101 et seq.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off-the-job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the County Auditor.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility, and it
is the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace, and
to overcome drug- and alcohol-related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal alcohol- or drug-related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not be
disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section, or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance-abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (for example, whether the employee will be offered
the opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program, and/or will be
subject to discipline).
   (G)   Testing. The county will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol
or drug tests.
      (1)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period, of time as determined by the
county; and
         (c)   When required by law.
      (2)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness-for-duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness-for-duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (3)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
County Auditor.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 3-29-2010)
§ 31.05 RETENTION OF DUTY WEAPONS; RETIRED SHERIFF’S OFFICE PERSONNEL.
   (A)   This section shall affect the County Sheriff’s office personnel who
will retire after January 1, 2021.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall have the authority to release and legally
transfer to the retiring Sheriff’s office member one of his or her duty-issued
sidearms.
   (C)   The retiring deputy or Sheriff must have served honorably as a Merit
Officer of the County Sheriff’s office for a minimum of 20 years, and meet the
definition of a RETIRED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, as defined in 18 U.S.C. §
926C.
   (D)   The Board hereby delegates to the County Sheriff’s Merit Board the
authority to determine whether a retiring deputy or Sheriff is, in all
respects, qualified to receive this recognition; and delegates to the County
Sheriff the authority to determine what firearm is to be transferred, and to
sign all documents and comply with all the laws necessary to effect the legal
transfer of that firearm.
   (E)   The County Sheriff’s office shall issue to the retiring member a
retired ID card that provides for name and retiring rank, and indicates the
authority to retain the employee’s firearm.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 31.06 HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT; VACATION TIME, NOTICE, ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   (1)   If an employee isn’t going to work a certain day, a call shall
be made to the Highway Department prior to starting time.
      (2)   Vacation days shall not be given one day at a time.
      (3)   Thirty days’ notice shall be given prior to taking vacation.
      (4)   Employees shall be employed one year before receipt of benefits
(vacation and holidays).
      (5)   Employees shall work 75% of work time to qualify for benefits.
      (6)   After 90 days, new employees shall receive a pay increase.
      (7)   Any employee who is continuously tardy out of a 40-hour week
(Highway Superintendent and foreman shall decide), there shall be an automatic
three-day lay off.
      (8)   Any employee who is continuously tardy (Highway Superintendent and
foreman will decide), shall be fired automatically.
   (B)   (1)   If a County Highway Department worker, subject to said contract,
takes an approved vacation day, said worker shall be paid for the same number
of hours as the regular work schedule in effect at the Highway Department for
that day of either eight or ten hours.
      (2)   When any Highway Department worker, by virtue of being paid for
various length vacation days during the year, is left with less than eight
hours of remaining vacation time, said worker may schedule a partial day
vacation to use up all the remaining hours of vacation time.
      (3)   Said worker shall comply with all other terms provided in the
contract for advance notice to and approval by the Superintendent prior to
utilizing the remaining “less than eight hours” vacation time.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 2-3-1986; Res. 1997-16, passed 9-16-1997)
§ 31.07 CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   (A)   I.C. 5-4-1-18(b) permits the fiscal body of a county by ordinance to
authorize the purchase of a crime insurance policy endorsed to include faithful
performance to cover the faithful performance of all employees, Commission
members, and persons acting on behalf of the county.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners is authorized to purchase a crime
insurance policy endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of all employees, Commission members, and persons acting on behalf
of the county government.
(Council Ord. 2006-14, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.08 LEAVE; DEATH OF AN IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 5-10-6-1, that employees of the county in the
state who are compensated for their services on an hourly basis may be granted
three days leave, with pay, in case of death in the immediate family.
   (B)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY to include: mother, father, wife, husband, brother,
sister, child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepmother, stepfather, stepsister, stepbrother,
stepchild, or natural grandparents.
(Ord. passed 6-15-1981)
§ 31.09 POLICY ON PURCHASE OF FOOD AND BEVERAGES FOR DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Office holders and department heads shall not use county funds, and
shall not present claims for payment of any beverages, snacks, or foods to the
County Auditor or Board of Commissioners for payment or reimbursement, except
for the following.
      (1)   The County Health Department may provide items if medically
necessary in the ordinary course of its nursing operations.
      (2)   The county may provide items of beverages and snacks for events
where the county employees and their families on the county health plans are
providing blood draws for part of its wellness or other health-related
programs.
      (3)   Any other office who is required by law to provide food and
beverages, such as:
         (a)   The court, for jurors;
         (b)   The Sheriff, for inmates;
         (c)   The EMA, in an emergency;
         (d)   The EMS, in its provision of medical services; and
         (e)   Any other event or item that is approved in advance by the
County Board of Commissioners in an open meeting.
   (B)   Any office holder or department head, not excepted above, who chooses
to make beverages, snacks, or food items available in their offices shall do so
without charge of any kind to the county government.
   (C)   This shall not restrict provision of beverages or food items to
individuals who will pay for the items as used, or that are paid for by
donations received for that purpose from individuals or entities where no
conflict of interest results.
   (D)   Any outside contributions to beverage or food received by any office
shall be disclosed to the County Auditor within 30 days of receipt on forms
provided by the Auditor.
(Res. 2015-01, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 31.10 DIRECT DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Employees wishing to participate in the county’s payroll direct
deposit program may enroll only during the first week of each quarter. The
Auditor’s office, as the administrator of this program, will send a notice
reminding employees of the enrollment periods. The employee must complete a
direct deposit authorization, in the form prescribed by the Auditor, before
direct deposit begins.
   (B)   Employees wishing to make changes to their payroll direct deposit,
such as changing the depository accounts and the like, shall submit such
changes only during the first week of each quarter. The employee must complete
a direct deposit payroll change request/authorization form, as prescribed by
the Auditor. Employees are limited to three accounts to deposit their check.
   (C)   In the event of a bona fide emergency, the Auditor may grant an
exception to the foregoing requirements.
(Res. 2007-15, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 31.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST POLICY.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby establishes a conflicts of
interest policy for all county officials and employees, wherein county
officials and employees are bound by the duties of their office or employment
to avoid any and all conflicts of interest, but that the dollar threshold of
$200 is hereby established for any single event, meeting, or function below
which any financial interest or value of any gratuity is not considered
substantial, and may be accepted.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-19-2017)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.25 ADA COORDINATOR, CO-COORDINATOR.
   (A)   In addition to the ADA Coordinator, the County Planning Department
Director shall serve as the county’s ADA Co-Coordinator. The ADA Coordinator
and Co-Coordinators shall work with the ADA Workgroup which is hereby
established to include the following:
      (1)   The ADA Coordinator and Co-Coordinator;
      (2)   Representatives of the County Highway Department;
      (3)   The County Auditor;
      (4)   The County Attorney; and
      (5)   Other department representatives to be included from time to time.
   (B)   The ADA Coordinator and Co-Coordinator are hereby directed to:
      (1)   Comply with the ADA Transition Plan;
      (2)   Review county facilities and right-of-way improvements to assess
compliance with the ADA;
      (3)   Notify the general public concerning relevant information regarding
Title II of the ADA, and how it applies to the programs, services, facilities,
improvements, and activities of the county;
      (4)   Seek public input regarding the needs of citizens with
disabilities; and
      (5)   Develop a reasonable transition plan, or plans, to be implemented
to address issues of need or noncompliance, based upon prioritizing needs and
the county’s ability to finance such transition plan, or plans.
(Res. 2016-09, passed 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   [Reserved]
   
32.02   Community Development Committee
   
32.03   County Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Commission
   
32.04   County Department of Parks and Recreation; Board
   
32.05   County Redevelopment Commission
   
32.06   County Weed Control Board
   
32.07   HAVA Advisory Council
   
32.08   Public Defender Board
   
32.09   Emergency Response Commission
   
32.10   Economic Development Commission
   
32.11   Solid Waste Management District
   
32.12   County Port Authority
   
32.13   Election Sheriffs; Judges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 [RESERVED].
§ 32.02 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq., a Community Development Committee
will be responsible for preparing a statement of community development needs
and priorities that reflect recommendations of the citizens.
   (B)   The process of gaining citizen participation includes the holding of
public hearings.
   (C)   Each person is designated to service for a period of two years.
(Res. passed 11-24-)
§ 32.03 COUNTY CONVENTION, RECREATION, AND VISITOR COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a County Convention, Visitor, and Tourism
Commission to promote the development and growth of the convention, visitor,
and tourism industry in the county.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall be composed of seven members. If available
and willing to serve, at least two members must be engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing rooms, lodging, or accommodations in the county. A simple
majority of the members must be:
         (a)   Engaged in a convention, visitor, or tourism business; or
         (b)   Involved in or promoting conventions, visitors, or tourism.
      (2)   Each member must reside in the county. No more than a simple
majority of the members may be affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed in the following
manner.
      (1)   Four members by the Board of Commissioners of the county, one of
which must be engaged in the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging,
or accommodations in the county.
      (2)   Two members by the County Council, one of which must be engaged in
the business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging, or accommodations in the
county.
      (3)   One member by the executive of the largest municipality in the
county, as provided by I.C. 6-9-18-5.
   (D)   The term of office of each member shall be two years, beginning
January 1, with four members to be appointed in odd-numbered years and three
members to be appointed in even-numbered years.
   (E)   A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another term.
If a vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified person
to serve for the remainder of the term. If an initial appointment is not made
by February 1, or a vacancy is not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall
appoint a member by majority vote.
   (F)   A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by his or her
appointing authority.
   (G)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary.
   (H)   Each Commission member, before entering his or her duties, shall take
an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his or her certificate
of appointment, and promptly filed with the Clerk of the County Circuit Court.
   (I)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose of
organization. It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice
President, another Secretary, and another Treasurer. The members elected to
those offices shall perform the duties pertaining to the offices. The first
officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election until their
successors are elected and qualified. A majority of the Commission constitutes
a quorum, and the concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to
authorize any action.
   (J)   The powers of the Commission are those set out in I.C. 6-9-18-6.
   (K)   All money coming into possession of the Commission shall be deposited,
held, secured, invested, and paid in accordance with statutes relating to the
handling of public funds. The handling and expenditure of money coming into
possession of the Commission is subject to audit and supervision by the State
Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 1994-5, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 2003-02, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 32.04 COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The County Park and Recreation Board shall be re-established in
accordance with I.C. 36-10-3, and the Board shall be composed of:
         (a)   Two members appointed by the Judge of the County Circuit Court;
         (b)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners; and
         (c)   Two members appointed by the County Council.
      (2)   Members appointed under divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), and (A)(1)
(c) above shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of
parks and recreation, but no more than one member appointed under divisions (A)
(1)(a) and (A)(1)(c) above shall be affiliated with the same political party.
      (3)   The County Extension Committee shall select one of its members, the
County Extension Coordinator or the County Extension Agent, to serve as an ex-
officio Board member. The ex-officio Board members have all the rights of
regular members, including the right to vote.
   (B)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of its members shall
be as follows.
         (a)   The appointments by the County Circuit Court Judge shall be one-
and three-year terms, respectively.
         (b)   The appointment by the County Commissioners shall be for a two-
year term.
         (c)   The appointments by the Council shall be for two- and four-year
terms, respectively.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year
term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Department. If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the Appointing Authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term. The Extension Representative is optional, but
if one is to be included, the provision must be written in the ordinance.
   (C)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have authority to act
as the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the
President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its
own membership.
   (D)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities, and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
   (E)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of county government, as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Council Ord. 82-2, passed 11-16-1982)
§ 32.05 COUNTY REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14,
hereby establishes a department of redevelopment controlled by a board of five
members, to be known as the County Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   Three Commissioners for the County Redevelopment Commission shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county, and two Commission
members shall be appointed by the Council, as provided by I.C. 36-7-14-6.1.
   (C)   All of the territory in the county, except that within a municipality
that has a Redevelopment Commission, constitutes a taxing district for the
county.
   (D)   The activities of the County Redevelopment Commission shall be
conducted pursuant to, and in accordance with, I.C. 36-7-14.
   (E)   The County Redevelopment Commission shall have such powers as are
provided by law.
   (F)   Members of the County Redevelopment Commission shall serve without
compensation, including stipends, salaries, per diems, or any other form of
payment for their service on the board. However, members may be reimbursed for
actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, in accordance with
applicable county policies and procedures.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 6-20-1995; Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-14-2025)
§ 32.06 COUNTY WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority established in I.C. 15-16-7-3, there is
hereby established a County Weed Control Board for the purposes of controlling
NOXIOUS WEEDS, as defined by I.C. 15-16-7-3, establishing a marijuana
eradication program under I.C. 15-16-7-9, and exercising all other powers, and
fulfilling all other duties, set forth in that chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of the following members to be appointed by
the Board of Commissioners, to-wit:
      (1)   One Township Trustee of the county;
      (2)   One Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor;
      (3)   A representative from the agricultural community of the county;
      (4)   A representative from the County Highway Department, or an
appointee of the County Commissioners; and
      (5)   A cooperative extension service agent from the county to serve in a
non-voting advisory capacity.
   (C)   Each Board member shall be appointed for a term of four years, and all
vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term
by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 89-11, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 32.07 HAVA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The county, by the County Commissioners, establishes a HAVA Advisory Council
to assist in choosing polling places, and which Council is also to advise the
county concerning voting by the disabled and the elderly in accordance with the
provisions set forth below.
   (A)   The county hereby establishes the HAVA Advisory Council.
   (B)   The County HAVA Advisory Council shall consist of the following
persons or their designees:
      (1)   The County Clerk;
      (2)   Both other members of the County Election Board; and
      (3)   Two representatives of the disabilities community or elderly voters
selected by the County Executive, which appointments shall be county residents
with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliations, and perspectives.
   (C)   The HAVA Advisory Council shall have a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson,
and a Secretary who will be elected by the HAVA Advisory Council for a term of
one year.
   (D)   The HAVA Advisory Council shall meet as required by law, and at
additional times and places as determined by the Council.
   (E)   Any and all meetings of the HAVA Advisory Council shall be open
meetings, and shall be posted in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (F)   The HAVA Advisory Council is to provide assistance to the county in
doing those things relating to disabilities required by the Federal Help
America Vote Act of 2002, being 52 U.S.C. §§ 20901-21145, its amendments, and
the State Election Laws, including those statutes adopted to implement the
requirements of HAVA in the state.
(Ord. 2003-21, passed 12-29-2003)
§ 32.08 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The County Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments, and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal
representation, and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in the county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a CRIME, as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-
75;
            2.   An ACT OF DELINQUENCY, as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16-2;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection
with all pre-trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent
defendant/respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed by
the County Commissioners, and two members from different political parties
appointed by majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on December 31, 2000. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on December 31, 2001, and the initial term
of the other member appointed by the judges shall expire on December 31, 2002.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position, and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a City, Town, or County Attorney, a law enforcement officer, a
judge, or a court employee.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if
approved by the Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly, or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney, or attorneys, through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support, and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency, and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-3;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States, or the Constitution of the State.
   (F)   Scope of section. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a
right of reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40-6, except to the extent that any
claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40-6 and the standards of the
State Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed - -)
§ 32.09 EMERGENCY RESPONSE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby determines that the
county shall function as a Local Emergency Planning District (LEPD) in
accordance with the directive of the State Emergency Response Commission, and
in compliance with the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986,
being 42 U.S.C. 11001 et seq., adopted by executive order by the Governor of
the state.
   (B)   A committee known as the County Local Emergency Planning Committee is
hereby established to carry out the purposes of the law.
   (C)   The Committee shall function in conjunction with the County Civil
Defense Department and their Advisory Committee.
   (D)   The members of the County Local Emergency Planning Commission will
exercise the recommendations and requirements as set out in the Superfund
Right-To-Know Act of 1986.
   (E)   The County Emergency Planning Commission shall be selected by the
Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Res. passed 10-5-1987)
§ 32.10 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-11.9 and 36-7-12 (collectively, the “Act”) grant the
authority to the County Council to establish a Department of Economic
Development to be controlled by an Economic Development Commission to meet the
needs existing for the financing of economic development and pollution control
facilities in and near the county.
   (B)   By the County Council, pursuant to the Act, that the County Department
of Economic Development, controlled by the County Economic Development
Commission be, and are hereby created and granted, all powers and duties of
such Department and such Commission as set forth in the Act.
(Council Ord. 1997-14, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.11 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The county is hereby designated as a county solid waste management
district, known as the County Solid Waste Management District, pursuant to I.C.
13-21-3-1 through 13-21-3-22.
   (B)   The County Solid Waste Management District includes all of the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county.
   (C)   The Board of Directors of the County Solid Waste Management District
consists of the following members.
      (1)   Three members appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county
from its membership;
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
      (3)   One member who is the executive of the municipality having the
largest population in the county if that municipality is a city/town; and
      (4)   One member of the legislative body of the municipality with the
largest population in the county appointed by the legislative body of that
municipality.
   (D)   One member of the fiscal body (Town Council) of a town that is not the
municipality having the largest population in the county appointed by the Board
of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 1993-3, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 2023-09, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 32.12 COUNTY PORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The county hereby creates a port authority under the Act to be
known as the County Port Authority (“Port Authority”) as a body corporate and
politic, to exercise the powers granted to a port authority under the Act.
      (2)   The jurisdiction of the Port Authority shall include:
         (a)   All of the county; and
         (b)   A facility that is owned and operated by the Port Authority,
whether or not the facility is located within the county, except that the same
area may not be included in the jurisdiction of more than one Port Authority.
   (B)   The exercise by the Port Authority of the powers conferred upon it
under the Act is deemed to be an essential governmental function of the state.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority shall be composed
of five members who shall each have been qualified electors of the county for a
period of at least three years next preceding the respective Director’s date of
appointment.
      (2)   The members of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority shall
be appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and shall serve a term of office of
four years, except that the initial terms of office of the members shall be
staggered, as shown on the respective certificates of appointment for the
initial members.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may, at any time, remove a member of the
Board of Directors for misfeasance, nonfeasance, or malfeasance in office.
   (D)   Each member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to receive
from the Port Authority such sum of money as the Board of Directors may
determine as compensation for service as a Director, and reimbursement for the
member’s reasonable expenses in the performance of the member’s duties.
(Res. 05, passed 4-15-1997)
§ 32.13 ELECTION SHERIFFS; JUDGES.
   (A)   I.C. 3-6-6-5 provides for appointment of two Election Sheriffs for
each precinct in the county, unless the county executive issues an order
directing the Judges of each named precinct to perform the duties and have the
rights of the Election Sheriffs named in the order.
   (B)   The County Election Board has requested the Board of Commissioners to
reduce the number of persons required on the precinct election boards by
shifting the Sheriff’s duties and rights to the Election Judges.
   (C)   In each and every election precinct in the county now existing, or in
the future established, the Election Judges shall perform the statutory duties
and have the statutory rights of the Election Sheriffs in those precincts in
which they serve.
(Ord. 1997-16, passed 8-19-1997)
CHAPTER 33: RESERVED
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
34.04   Limitations; non-suppression of emergency powers of County Sheriff,
incorporated municipalities; conformance of municipal regulation with county
regulations
Organization, Administration of Department of Emergency Management
   
34.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council established
   
34.16   Appointment and terms of members
   
34.17   Duties of Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
34.18   Department of Emergency Management established
   
34.19   Director of Emergency Management; appointment, qualifications, tenure,
powers, duties
   
34.20   Deputy Director; general powers and duties
   
34.21   Principal Executive Officer, Board of Commissioners; general
administrative powers, duties; tests of emergency operations plan
   
34.22   Qualifications, appointment of emergency management volunteers
   
34.23   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
34.24   Emergency operations plan; formulation, content, adoption of plan
   
34.25   County-wide jurisdiction of the Department; county emergency operations
plan; related official powers
Emergency Powers, Regulations, Procedures
   
34.40   Applicability of subchapter
   
34.41   Responsibilities of Department prior to declaration of local disaster
emergency
   
34.42   Special emergency powers, duties of Principal Executive Officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
34.43   Special emergency powers, duties of Principal Executive Officer;
convention of emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners; special meeting
procedures
   
34.44   Special emergency powers, duties of Principal Executive Officer;
plenipotentiary powers in absence of Board quorum
   
34.45   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
34.46   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency Management
   
34.47   General duties of officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county during emergency
   
34.48   Priority of emergency orders, rules, regulations
   
34.49   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules, regulations; obstruction,
impersonation of emergency management authorities; enforcement
   
34.50   Limitation of liability during state of emergency, emergency, or
emergency management tests
   
34.51   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish in the county a Department of
Emergency Management, and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers
during emergencies.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council, as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council, as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, and the execution of, all
emergency functions, to include mitigation, preparedness, response, and
recovery.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management, as established under
this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management, as established and
appointed, pursuant to this chapter.
   DISASTER. The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
wave action, oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, hazardous materials spill or contamination requiring
emergency action to avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought,
explosion, riot, or hostile military or paramilitary action which cannot be
handled by normal operating personnel, procedures, resources, or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly-rostered,
identified, and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations, or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   HUMAN-MADE DISASTER. Any incidents, including, but not limited to, riots,
strikes, insurrections, terrorist acts, civil disturbances, threats to national
security, or other human-made cause.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any incidents affecting or threatening the public health,
welfare, safety, or security, including, but not limited to, flood, tornado,
earthquake, wind, storm, winter storm, or other natural cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities pursuant to §
34.18(A)(4).
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-16 and §
34.19(B)(36).
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees, and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local emergency plan whose preparation
and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h).
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY.
      (1)   As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29(a), for purposes of declaring a
local disaster emergency, and as referred to hereinafter, means the regularly
designated President of the Board of County Commissioners, except if he or she
is unavailable or incapacitated, and the Board has a regularly-designated
President Pro Tem, the President Pro Tem shall be the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
OFFICER. If the President is unavailable or incapacitated, and there is no
designated President Pro Tem, then the remaining two Commissioners shall select
among themselves one to be the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER in the same manner
as when an ordinary business meeting needs to be conducted in the absence of
the President. If both the President and another Commissioner are absent or
incapacitated, then the remaining Commissioner shall be considered the
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER. In the absence or incapacity of all County
Commissioners, the office of PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER shall devolve upon
first, the Director of Emergency Management; second, the Deputy Director of
Emergency Management; third, the County Auditor; fourth, the County Clerk; and
fifth, the County Recorder.
      (2)   The PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY, selected by the
above procedure, if not a member of the County Commission, shall exercise all
powers and fulfill all duties of the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER under I.C. 10-
14-3-29(a) until such time as a County Commissioner shall no longer be
unavailable or incapacitated, at which time the County Commissioner, or the
regularly-designated President of the Board if he or she is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated, shall assume all the powers and duties associated
with the office of President of the Board. THE PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF
THE COUNTY, selected by the above procedure, if a member of the County
Commission, shall exercise all powers and fulfill all duties of the PRINCIPAL
EXECUTIVE OFFICER under I.C. 10-14-3-29(a) until such time as the regularly-
designated President of the Board shall no longer be unavailable or
incapacitated, at which time the regularly-designated President of the Board
shall resume all the powers and duties associated with his or her office.
   SEMA. The State Emergency Management Agency, established under I.C. 10-8-2-
1.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Any incidents, including, but not limited to, severe
fire, explosions, hazardous material spills, radiological problems, or other
technological cause.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996; Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 34.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT; LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from emergency conditions. To this end, all powers,
both ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein, shall be liberally
construed, and shall be construed as intending to supplement and augment, and
not to limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion, which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers employees, department, and agencies.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.04 LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPPRESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF,
INCORPORATED MUNICIPALITIES; CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATION WITH COUNTY
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any
statutory powers of the County Sheriff to request assistance of the National
Guard under the circumstances delineated in I.C. 10-16-7-9 and 10-16-7-10.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the
powers of any incorporated municipality under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to adopt and
implement emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce special emergency
regulations and procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such
municipality.
      (2)   However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations and
procedures, as promulgated by the municipal authorities, may not be
inconsistent with the county emergency regulations and procedures as
established in this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
ORGANIZATION, ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 34.15 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), there is established the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council, which shall consist of the following
persons or their designees:
   (A)   The President of the County Executive;
   (B)   The President of the County Fiscal Body;
   (C)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
   (D)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns located
within the county;
   (E)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or organizations
which can be of assistance to emergency management as the organizing group
considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County Emergency
Management Advisory Council; and
   (F)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or the
commander’s designee.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.16 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, and a
Recording Secretary. These officers shall be elected by the Advisory Council
for one-year terms.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.17 DUTIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county, and shall
select, with the approval of the County Executive, a County Emergency
Management Director, who shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operation of the emergency management program in the
county, and shall be responsible to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council.
The Emergency Management Director shall not hold any other local or state
government office.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall have the power to terminate, with the
approval of the County Executive, a county Emergency Management Director under
the circumstances delineated in §
34.18(A)(2).
   (C)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once biannually, the
frequency, time, and place being determined by the Council.
   (D)   Any and all meetings of the Advisory Council shall be open meetings,
and shall be posted in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.18 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing, to the fullest extent possible, the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any DISASTER,
as defined in §
34.02. The County Commissioners and Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration, and operation. The Department
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
34.19;
      (2)   A Deputy Director, who shall be appointed by the Director with the
approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
34.48, and in accordance with the plan;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management, and
designated by the plan to participate in emergency management activity.
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications, warning,
public information, law enforcement, fire and rescue, search and rescue,
medical, public health, evacuation, shelter, and mass care, public works,
damage assessment, radiological protection, resource and supply, and hazardous
materials response; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department who may be appointed by
the Director in accordance with the plan.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no compensated
position may be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor
any person appointed to such position without:
      (1)   The authorization of the County Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3
(a); and
      (2)   The making of sufficient appropriations to pay such compensation.
   (C)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and
employees of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of
compensation.
   (D)   It is the intent of this section that emergency management and
disaster assignments under the plan shall be as nearly consistent with normal
duty assignments as possible.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.19 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, TENURE,
POWERS, DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be appointed by the
County Emergency Management Advisory Council with the approval of the County
Executive. The Director may hold no other local, state, or federal office.
      (2)   (a)   The Director shall be appointed for a term of four years.
During said term, the Director shall be subject to removal by the Advisory
Council if they determine and find the Director to be incapable of, or
unwilling to, fulfill his or her duties, as provided in division (A)(3) below.
The Director’s performance shall be subject to review at least annually by the
County Emergency Management Council.
         (b)   The Director may be removed also for the following:
            1.   Incapable of fulfilling his or her duties due to physical or
mental disability; and
            2.   Unwilling to perform his or her duties as mandated below.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall consult with the Executive Director of
SEMA to obtain his or her opinion on the abilities and competence of the
Director prior to the Advisory Council’s termination of the Director under
division (A)(2) above. The SEMA Executive Director’s opinion hereunder shall be
advisory only.
      (4)   Additional qualifications for the Director may be determined by the
Advisory Council, with input from the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council, shall be the executive head of the Department, and shall have
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
emergency management organization, including the following specific powers and
duties:
      (1)   Submitting to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a
yearly report on the county’s comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery taken in the previous year,
and planned and recommended for the year to come;
      (2)   Keeping the County Commissioners fully informed on emergency
management activities;
      (3)   Writing and implementing the plan, which shall conform to the
guidelines contained in the most current state and federal guidance documents
if the county wishes to receive state and/or federal matching funds;
      (4)   Assuring that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the plan receive training in the functions which
they are to perform under the plan;
      (5)   Designing and conducting exercises of the plan, as required by
SEMA;
      (6)   Assuring that the plan addresses all hazards and includes all
cities, towns, and other population centers within the county;
      (7)   Updating the plan as needed to keep it current, as required by I.C.
10-14-3-17(h)(2);
      (8)   Identifying and analyzing the effects of hazards that threaten the
jurisdiction;
      (9)   Working closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (10)   Inventorying manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
      (11)   Identifying resource deficiencies and working with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
      (12)   Developing an emergency operating center (EOC) as a site from
which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or
emergency;
      (13)   Developing and maintaining emergency communications systems;
      (14)   Establishing a system to alert key officials in event of a
disaster or emergency;
      (15)   Developing continuity of government procedures and systems;
      (16)   Establishing and maintaining a shelter and reception and care
system;
      (17)   Developing a training program for emergency response personnel;
      (18)   Developing a tests and exercise program;
      (19)   Coordinating with the industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the plan;
      (20)   Making rapid and accurate assessment of (as soon as an emergency
or disaster declaration has been made):
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs; and
         (e)   Special needs.
      (21)   Submitting to SEMA the assessment specified in division (B)(7)
above in SEMA’s required format and time frame for submission;
      (22)   Providing to the SEMA Director annual reports and documentation as
mandated by SEMA;
      (23)   Competently managing the Department’s various functions,
including, among others, financial, personnel, and logistic;
      (24)   Timely responsiveness to the Chairperson of the Advisory Council,
as mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B);
      (25)   Timely obedience to the directives of superior state authorities;
      (26)   Assuring that the activities of the Department at all times
comport with I.C. 10-14-3, and other applicable statutes and county ordinances;
      (27)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, the emergency management
professional development series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within one year of first assuming the position
of Director;
      (28)   Attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (29)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades
in, the emergency management professional development series for emergency
management presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within one year of
first assuming the position of Deputy Director;
      (30)   Assuring the Deputy Director’s, and all paid emergency management
staff’s, attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by SEMA in subsequent years;
      (31)   Assuring ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director,
and all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
      (32)   Responsibility for public relations, information, and education
regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (33)   Assuring coordination, within the county, of all activities for
emergency management;
      (34)   Maintaining liaison and coordination with all other affected
agencies, public and private;
      (35)   Coordination of the recruitment of, and training for, volunteer
personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county
for emergency management purposes;
      (36)   Seeking, negotiating, and entering into (with the approval or
ratification of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the state
emergency operations plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all
steps in accordance with such arrangements to comply with, or take advantage
thereof, in the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties;
      (37)   Accepting any offer of the federal government to provide for the
use of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant, or loan, when such offer
has been approved by the Governor;
      (38)   Seeking and accepting from any person, firm, or corporation, any
gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds,
or licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county
for emergency management purposes;
      (39)   Issuing proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers
and other people directly concerned with emergency management;
      (40)   Assuring that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth below at
§
34.22(A) prior to accepting them as members of the Department; and
      (41)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided in this
division (B), the Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of
a local emergency management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3. In
particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the Department, may
perform, or cause to be performed, with respect to the county any function
parallel or analogous to those performed on a state-wide basis by SEMA under
I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.20 DEPUTY DIRECTOR; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
34.18(A)(2), he or she shall, during normal times, assist the Director in the
performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall assist the Director,
and shall fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or incapacity of
the Director to serve.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.21 PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; GENERAL
ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS, DUTIES; TESTS OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   In time of normal county operations, powers, and duties, of the
Principal Executive Officer pertaining to emergency management shall be:
      (1)   Seeking the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability
of declaring a local disaster emergency; and
      (2)   Declaring, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29(a), a local disaster
emergency.
   (B)   In time of normal county operations, powers, and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
      (1)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and
administration for the Department;
      (2)   Adoption of the plan;
      (3)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
plan;
      (4)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the plan;
      (5)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
duties in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers
of such agencies consistent with the plan;
      (6)   Taking all necessary action, in coordination with the Department,
to conduct tests of the plan; and
      (7)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the plan.
   (C)   Emergency management tests may be conducted at any time, with or
without prior notification to persons other than the Director. All emergency
tests conducted within the boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with
the Department.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.22 QUALIFICATIONS, APPOINTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall assure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Department:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
      (3)   Have completed, and have on file with the Department, an
application form.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements and formal entry upon the
Department’s roster of volunteers, the applicant is officially a member of the
County Department of Emergency Management.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.23 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of
the budget.
   (B)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds as they may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
   (C)   All funds appropriated by the County Council to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director in accordance with
the budget amounts and categories approved by the County Council.
   (D)   All funds available to the Department of Emergency Management, which
are not funds appropriated by the county, shall be administered by the
Director, subject to prior approval by the Advisory Council in a legal meeting
by a majority vote of all the Advisory Council members, except in the event of
an emergency.
(Ord. 1998-03, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 34.24 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; FORMULATION, CONTENT, ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   A county emergency operations plan shall be adopted by resolution of
the County Commissioners. In the preparation of this plan, as it pertains to
county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities,
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The plan shall have, at minimum, the following contents:
      (1)   Basic plan, to include:
         (a)   Purpose;
         (b)   Situation/assumptions;
         (c)   Concept of operations;
         (d)   Assignment of responsibilities;
         (e)   Direction and control;
         (f)   Continuity of government;
         (g)   Administration and logistics; and
         (h)   Execution.
      (2)   Annexes, to include:
         (a)   Communications;
         (b)   Notification and warning;
         (c)   Emergency public information;
         (d)   Law enforcement;
         (e)   Fire and rescue;
         (f)   Search and rescue;
         (g)   Medical;
         (h)   Public health;
         (i)   Evacuation;
         (j)   Shelter and mass care;
         (k)   Engineering, utility, and public works;
         (l)   Damage assessment;
         (m)   Radiological protection;
         (n)   Resource and supply; and
         (o)   Hazardous materials response for SARA, Title III, releases (to
be drafted by the Local Emergency Planning Committee, pursuant to I.C. 13-25-2-
5), and hazardous materials response for non-SARA, Title III, releases.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are drafted
subject to the requirements of the plan;
      (2)   Coordinate internal plans with the Department of Emergency
Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of internal plans within the county plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the county plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.25 COUNTY-WIDE JURISDICTION OF THE DEPARTMENT; COUNTY EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
PLAN; RELATED OFFICIAL POWERS.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
34.04(A) and (B), the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency
Management shall be:
      (1)   Comprehensive and inclusive county-wide; and
      (2)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s comprehensive
emergency management and disaster plan, as adopted pursuant to this section,
and the exercise of any powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the county
and the County Commissioners under §§
34.40 through
34.51, shall be:
      (1)   Comprehensive and inclusive county-wide; and
      (2)   Effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (C)   All incorporated areas of the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop internal plans, assure that those plans are drafted
subject to the requirements of the plan;
      (2)   Coordinate internal plans with the Department of Emergency
Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of internal plans within the county plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the county plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS, PROCEDURES
§ 34.40 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-29(a) and §
34.42 hereof;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
34.47 hereof; or
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plan and procedures in accordance with, and to the extent necessary
or dispensable to, such test.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.41 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   The Department of Emergency Management shall have the following
responsibilities prior to declaration of a disaster:
   (A)   The warning function as prescribed in the warning portion of the plan;
   (B)   Assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the
county, including all cities and towns, as prescribed in the communications
portion of the plan; and
   (C)   Assuring that mitigation, training, and exercising has been performed.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.42 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS, DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster
affecting the county, the Principal Executive Officer of the county may declare
a local disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29(a), for any period not
to exceed seven days.
   (B)   The declaration shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Indicate the nature of the disaster;
      (3)   Indicate the conditions which have brought the disaster about;
      (4)   Indicate the area, or areas, threatened;
      (5)   Indicate the area, or areas, to which the state of emergency
applies (which may include the entire county or only designated parts thereof);
and
      (6)   Be announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available.
   (C)   The declaration shall be filed in the offices of:
      (1)   The County Clerk;
      (2)   The County Auditor; and
      (3)   The clerk of any incorporated municipality included in the declared
disaster area.
   (D)   The declaration shall not be invalidated, nor ineffective, if any of
the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
   (E)   Upon a declaration, the county’s comprehensive emergency management
and disaster control plan, which has been adopted pursuant to §
34.25, or such several component parts thereof as may be relevant to the
emergency, shall be activated and implemented.
   (F)   Such a declaration shall not be necessary if the Governor, pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3-12, has already proclaimed a state-wide or area-wide state of
emergency, including the county.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.43 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS, DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
CONVENTION OF EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL MEETING
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is
declared, either by the Governor or by the Principal Executive Officer of the
county, the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall convene a meeting
of the County Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative
functions as the situation may demand.
   (B)   If the Principal Executive Officer fails or is unable to convene a
meeting as mandated above, the meeting shall be convened in accordance with
I.C. 36-2-2-8.
   (C)   Any such meeting of the Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Be deemed an emergency meeting;
      (2)   Be subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern
emergency meetings of the County Commissioners;
      (3)   Include relaxation of any applicable notice requirements pursuant
to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d);
      (4)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
      (5)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
      (6)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.44 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS, DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
PLENIPOTENTIARY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   (A)   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be
assembled for purposes of the meeting required under §
34.43, the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall:
      (1)   Be considered a plenipotentiary representative of the Board;
      (2)   Have all powers of the full Board; and
      (3)   Take all actions of the full Board.
   (B)   When a quorum is assembled, such plenipotentiary powers shall cease.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.45 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
34.43, the Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and
legislative powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal
therewith.
   (B)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (A) above, the Board
may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers.
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to §
34.42, to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except for
a state of emergency declared by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including:
         (a)   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
         (b)   Participating emergency services; and
         (c)   Any other forces at the disposal of the Commissioners hereunder
for emergency management purposes.
      (4)   (a)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces, which have been
activated pursuant to the plan to the aid of the county, state, or political
subdivisions thereof, as soon as practicable.
         (b)   These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
      (5)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety, and welfare, the Commissioners may, to the extent
permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-17(g), and subject to its provisions, command
services, and/or requisition the use, of:
         (a)   Equipment;
         (b)   Facilities;
         (c)   Supplies; or
         (d)   Other property.
      (6)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
         (a)   Routes;
         (b)   Modes of transportation; and
         (c)   Evacuation destinations.
      (7)   The Commissioners may make provisions for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building, or zoning regulations, and the like, which
would govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during
normal times.
      (8)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period, as they determine), any provisions of, or
procedures prescribed by, ordinances of the county if they:
         (a)   Would be impractical during the emergency;
         (b)   Would interfere with the implementation and carrying out of
emergency plans; or
         (c)   Would be inimical to actions necessary to protect the public
safety and welfare.
      (9)   Except in accordance with division (B)(13) below, the Commissioners
shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated
by statute.
      (10)   In the event of enemy attack, or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-
14-3-17(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of
county ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, and
pertaining to:
         (a)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds;
         (b)   The incurring of obligations;
         (c)   The performance of public works;
         (d)   The entering into contracts;
         (e)   The employment of workers whose employment may be either:
            1.   Permanent; or
            2.   Temporary.
         (f)   The utilization of volunteer workers;
         (g)   The rental of equipment; and
         (h)   The purchase and distribution of:
            1.   Supplies;
            2.   Materials; and
            3.   Facilities.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign any special emergency duties and
functions to county:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Departments; and
         (c)   Agencies.
      (12)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated,
but not otherwise dedicated, by law to different purposes, may, within the
scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major object
classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such
special emergency duties and functions.
      (13)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to implement and carry out the
provisions of the county’s or state’s plans.
         (a)   Such regulations shall not be effective until promulgated
through either:
            1.   Written filing in the offices of the County Clerk and County
Auditor, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)(2); or
            2.   If filing is impossible, through conspicuous posting at two
public locations within the county.
         (b)   Such regulation shall have the full force of law, and shall be
enforceable by any police officer in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24. The
Commissioners may, in accordance with the plan, request the state, or the
United States or their agencies and political subdivisions, to send aid
(including financial assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the
regular and emergency county forces and resources.
   (C)   All actions and regulations under this section shall be:
      (1)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution; and
      (2)   Be consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the state
emergency operations plan.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.46 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall make recommendations to and advise the Board of
Commissioners or the Principal Executive Officer on any actions which it would
be necessary or desirable to take under §
34.45 in the event of any emergency.
   (B)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor, nor
is any person having the powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the
county present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
34.42, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency.
   (C)   When the Director temporarily presumes the existence of a state of
emergency, the Director shall:
      (1)   Put into effect those portions of the plan that is necessary:
         (a)   To cope with the emergency; and
         (b)   Protect the public safety and welfare.
      (2)   Be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing
so to the extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited
herein, until such time as a Chief Executive Officer becomes available; and
      (3)   Have his or her functions performed by the Deputy Director to the
extent that the Deputy Director is required to assume the duties of the
Director, as provided by §
34.20 in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the emergency.
   (D)   Assistance from the Department of Emergency Management may be rendered
without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local emergency
services in time of need.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.47 GENERAL DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND
UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE COUNTY DURING EMERGENCY.
   During a declared emergency, all officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with, and give active support to:
      (1)   The County Commissioners; and
      (2)   The County Emergency Management Director.
   (B)   Comply with all orders issued pursuant to this chapter by:
      (1)   The Commissioners; and
      (2)   The County Emergency Management Director.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.48 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
inconsistent:
   (A)   Ordinances;
   (B)   Orders;
   (C)   Rules; and
   (D)   Regulations.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.49 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, REGULATIONS; OBSTRUCTION,
IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency services, authorized
emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from implementing,
carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.50 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY, EMERGENCY, OR
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared emergency the following
shall be immune from liability, to the extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3, and any
other applicable law:
   (A)   The county;
   (B)   County-assigned personnel;
   (C)   Participating emergency services; and
   (D)   Rostered volunteers.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.51 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county, as the County Council
shall approve, with regard to:
   (A)   Manner of compensation; and
   (B)   Amount of compensation.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense, as described in §
34.49(A), shall be liable to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject,
however, to the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 11-19-1996)
CHAPTER 35: FEES AND FINANCE
Section
Fees
   
35.01   Sexual, violent offender fee
   
35.02   Investigator reports of accidents fee
   
35.03   Administrative fee for foreclosure sales by Sheriff
   
35.04   Bulk copies of documents
   
35.05   Supplemental fee for recording of document
   
35.06   Enhanced emergency telephone system fee
   
35.07   Real property endorsement fee
   
35.08   Bad check service fee
   
35.09   Health Department fee collection
   
35.10   Electronic map data fees
Finances
   
35.25   Fixed asset capitalization policy
   
35.26   Payment of healthcare-related services; county jail
   
35.27   Prisoner reimbursement of incarceration costs
   
35.28   Board allowances
   
35.29   Purchasing policy
   
35.30   Grants
 
   
35.99   Penalty
FEES
§ 35.01 SEXUAL, VIOLENT OFFENDER FEE.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby required to charge the sum
of $50 per year for the registration of sexual or violent offenders, and $5 for
each time a sexual or violent offender registers an address change with the
County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sexual and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the state sexual and violent
offender registry.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 9-28-2007)
§ 35.02 INVESTIGATOR REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS FEE.
   (A)   All persons who shall be entitled to a copy of any investigator’s
report of an accident shall pay a fee for said copy.
   (B)   The amount of the fees so charged shall be the sum of $8 per copy.
(Council Ord. 2006-13, passed 12-19-2006; Ord. 2024-09, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 35.03 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR FORECLOSURE SALES BY SHERIFF.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program is approved and established to provide the
procedure for the Sheriff to contract for those administrative, technical,
clerical, and related services that are reasonable and appropriate for the
Sheriff to effectively prepare for, manage, and implement foreclosure sales.
   (B)   The Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract with a
provider to obtain such administrative, technical, clerical, and related
services (the “Sheriff sale services”) in order for the Sheriff to conduct the
Sheriff’s Sale Program.
   (C)   The Sheriff sale services contract shall provide for the delivery of
such services by a contractor (the “contractor”) in compliance with all
applicable statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure sale
proceedings, and the Sheriff’s Sale Program. The Sheriff sale services contract
shall also provide for the payment of a fee, not to exceed the amount in the
table in division (G)(1) below, for each cause number scheduled in the
Sheriff’s Sale Program to the contractor for such services.
   (D)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge a fee of the amount in the
table in division (G)(1) below per cause number of property in the Sheriff’s
Sale Program (the “foreclosure costs fees”) and to deposit such foreclosure
cost fees collected by, or on behalf of, the Sheriff in the Sheriff’s Sale
Fund.
   (E)   The foreclosure costs fee shall be payable at the time of filing the
praecipe under I.C. 32-29-7-3(h), which shall be a charge for the Sheriff’s
sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (F)   The Sheriff’s Sale Program contract shall provide for a complete and
accurate accounting of all Sheriff’s Sale Program proceeds, and compliance with
any reporting or record requirements, as set forth by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (G)   (1)   The estimated costs herein are estimates of the County Sheriff
for the administration of foreclosure sales, as required by I.C. 32-29-7. The
fees are authorized by I.C. 32-29-7-3, in the sum of $200.
 
Type of Service       Fee
Contractual services  $100 per cause number
Employee time defined $100 per cause number
 
      (2)   Employees’ costs shall be as defined by the second item in the
table in division (G)(1) above.
      (3)   Other defined costs shall be service of notice, cost of paper,
envelopes, and phone calls.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 35.04 BULK COPIES OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
            1.   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County
Recorder for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
            2.   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
            3.   Both divisions 1. and 2. above.
         BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form
copies under a contract with the County Recorder.
         COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorded document or
indices created by:
            1.   Duplicating electronically-stored data onto a disk, tape,
drum, or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
            2.   Reproducing on microfilm.
         INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder
for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
         RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder’s
designee.
      (2)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
      (3)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit
a written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk
form copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (A)(4) below, upon receipt of a valid written request the County
Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee, shall provide the bulk form copies
to the bulk user by the method, or methods, established by this section. The
bulk form copies shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of
the following events.
         (a)   The Recorder’s archival process is completed, and bulk form
copies become available in the County Recorder’s office.
         (b)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the
requirements of division (A)(5) below with:
            1.   The County Recorder; and
            2.   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder’s designee.
         (c)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder’s designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
      (4)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
         (a)   Based on a cost study performed by the County Recorder (which is
incorporated herein by reference), this Board finds and determines that the
costs incurred by the County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including
applying a watermark or other protective feature) substantially exceeds both
the standard fee of $0.10 per page, or per recorded document, fixed by I.C. 36-
2-7-10.1(d), and the fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the following fee
schedule is hereby adopted:
            1.   Twenty cents per page for a copy of a recorded document,
including the instrument’s book and page, if applicable; and
            2.   Twenty cents per recorded document for a copy of the indices
used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded
document.
         (b)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements.
            1.   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County
Treasury at the end of each calendar month.
            2.   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
            3.   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this
section shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund,
and used by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
            4.   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost
study referred to in division (A)(4)(a) above.
      (5)   Bulk user contract; termination.
         (a)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder,
and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services,
the County Recorder’s designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The
contract must be in writing, and must require that the bulk user agree not to
do any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (A)(6) below, provide,
transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by
the bulk user under this section to a third party;
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents; and
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (b)   A contract required under this division (A)(5) may not include
any restrictions on a bulk form user’s use of the bulk form copies other than
those contained in this section.
         (c)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County
Recorder may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form
copies to the bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by
the bulk user if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have
been met by the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent
requests from a bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances.
            1.   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form
copy contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined
that the bulk user failed to comply with the contract.
            2.   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest, and:
               a.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
               b.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because
the County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the
contract.
      (6)   Resale of bulk form copies by the bulk user.
         (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d), or holds
a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6, may provide bulk form copies
related to the specific order for a TITLE SEARCH (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2)
when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of TITLE INSURANCE (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   TITLE COMPANY (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division (A)(6)
may charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the
bulk user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining
the bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division
(A)(6) may not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of
a recorded document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to
any other bulk user or title plant.
         (c)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (A)
(6)(a) above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for
sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription
service to, or otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of
bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies
are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
      (7)   Enhanced access not affected. This division (A) does not apply to
enhanced access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any county ordinances
promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   The Recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with the following.
 
THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR THE SOLE USE OF (insert bulk user name) AND
EXCEPT AS PROVIDED FOR IN I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), SHALL NOT BE RESOLD PURSUANT TO
I.C.36-2-7-10.1. OFFICIAL COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE COUNTY RECORDER’S
OFFICE.
 
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-7-2018; Ord. 2018-08, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 35.05 SUPPLEMENTAL FEE FOR RECORDING OF DOCUMENT.
   (A)   A supplemental fee for recording a document in the amount of $3 per
document shall be charged by the County Recorder’s office.
   (B)   All revenue received by the Recorder pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the County Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund.
   (C)   The County Recorder shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Recorder’s office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
(Ord. 1995-7, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 35.06 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FEE.
   (A)   General. Under the authority of, and subject to, I.C. 36-8-16 et seq.,
an enhanced emergency telephone system is hereby established, together with a
fee system to provide for the funding of an enhanced emergency telephone system
to serve the county. This fee shall be collected from the telephone service
users of the county, and administered in accordance with the terms of this
section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-2, a
telephone system that uses the three-digit 911 number to send automatic number
identification and automatic location identification for reporting police,
fire, medical, or other emergency situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-3, the access from a particular service
user’s premises to a telephone system, including:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PEX) trunk; and
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent that is provided by the
service supplier.
         (b)   The term also includes a mobile telephone system access trunk,
whether the trunk is provided by the telephone company or a radio carrier.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-4, a person who provides
exchange telephone service to a service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone system is provided.
   (C)   Monthly fee. A monthly fee of $2.15 per telephone access line or other
exchange access facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the
lease, purchase, or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment,
including necessary computer hardware, software, and data base provisioning,
the rates associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone
system network services, and the personnel expenses of the emergency telephone
system.
   (D)   Administrative fee. Each service supplier shall be entitled to retain
an administrative fee of 3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for
collection the fees.
   (E)   County Treasurer. All monthly fees collected, except for the 3%
administrative fee, shall be remitted to the Treasurer of the county within ten
days after the last day of the calendar year quarter. With the fee remittal,
each service supplier shall provide a fee collection report to the Auditor of
the county on a form provided by the Auditor.
   (F)   Fund. The County Treasurer shall deposit the remitted fees in a
separate fund named the County Emergency Telephone System Fund. The County
Treasurer may invest money in the fund in the same manner that other monies of
the county are invested with interest earned from such investment to be
deposited in that fund. Money in that fund shall be appropriated by the County
Council only for the expenditures listed in division (C) above.
   (G)   Delinquent fee. During January of each year, each service supplier who
collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall
provide a delinquent fee report to the County Treasurer. The report shall list
the name, address, and amount due for each service user who is two or more
months delinquent in paying the fee.
   (H)   Collection. Each service supplier shall commence collecting the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee from its service users within 30 days
of implementation of the 911 system.
(Council Ord. 1993-13, passed 11-16-1993; Council Ord. 2011-12, passed 10-18-
2011)
§ 35.07 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-2-9-18, the Auditor of the county may
collect a fee of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the
deed for which the Auditor makes a real property endorsement.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law, and
shall be placed in a dedicated fund for the use of maintaining plat books.
   (C)   The Auditor of the county shall have the authority to collect a fee of
$10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the deed for which
the Auditor makes a real property endorsement. Such fee shall be in addition to
any other fee provided by law, and shall be placed in a dedicated fund for the
use of maintaining plat books. All previous ordinances regarding endorsement
fees are null and void.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 35.08 BAD CHECK SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The County Prosecuting Attorney may establish a Bad Check Collection
Program through the office of the Prosecuting Attorney whereby any person who
is the payee or holder of a bad check and who intends to prosecute the issuer
of the bad check if such check is not made good after first presenting the
check to the bank and then contacting the issuer in writing, and giving the
issuer ten days to make restitution, may:
      (1)   Authorize the Prosecuting Attorney to contact the issuer of the bad
check to determine if such person wishes and intends to make the check good in
accordance with state law in lieu of suffering prosecution;
      (2)   Authorize the Prosecuting Attorney to collect, on behalf of the
payee or holder of the bad check, a protest fee per check, and on behalf of the
Prosecuting Attorney’s office, a service fee per check in an amount not to
exceed the maximum amount authorized by state law;
      (3)   Authorize the Prosecuting Attorney to retain all protest fees for
return to the payee or holder of the bad check, and all service fees collected
by the Prosecuting Attorney for the Prosecuting Attorney’s office pursuant to
division (A)(3) above in consideration of the services provided to the payee or
holder by the Prosecuting Attorney; and
      (4)   The Prosecuting Attorney may waive the collection of the fee if he
or she finds that probable cause for prosecution no longer exists.
   (B)   Upon implementation of the Bad Check Collection Program, as authorized
by division (A) above, the Prosecuting Attorney may establish and maintain a
trust checking account, into which shall be deposited the principal amount of
any bad check, along with all other fees collected from the issuer thereof.
Checks from such account may be written to the payee or holder of the bad check
to whom the money is lawfully due, without appropriation. All service fees
collected pursuant to division (A) above shall be regularly delivered to the
County Treasurer, not less than monthly, in the manner of fees collected by
county officers, for deposit in the Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund. The
Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund is to be a line item in the County General Fund,
so that the special fees are actually deposited into the County General Fund
for use, as set out in this section.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 35.09 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEE COLLECTION.
   (A)   General. The County Board of Health is empowered to establish and
collect fees in accordance with the following definitions and provisions.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in principal of the Board and Health
Officer, as provided in I.C. 16-20-1-14.
      BOARD. The County Board of Health, as provided for in I.C. 16-1-5-1.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, as provided for in I.C. 16-1-
5-2.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, or association.
   (C)   Fees for services. The Board of Health, having jurisdiction, may
charge a service fee not in excess of the cost for providing to any person the
following services:
      (1)   Home healthcare, as prescribed within the meaning of § 1881(o) of
the Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. 1395rr, for a home health agency, and
as authorized by the State Board of Health, I.C. 16-1-3-28;
      (2)   For any personal health service provided through the County Health
Department including, but not limited to, the chest clinic, as authorized by
I.C. 16-1-4-24;
      (3)   For services provided by the County Health Department in providing
a copy of a certificate of birth and death, pursuant to I.C. 16-1-4-24;
      (4)   For services provided in the inspection of public eating and
drinking establishments, retail food markets, itinerant food stands, and semi-
public food service establishments to obtain a permit for license for food
markets and eating and drinking establishments, as required by the county, as
authorized by I.C. 18-1-1-.5-7 and I.C. 17-2-22-2; and
      (5)   For supervision and inspection of sanitary installations, as
required by the county, as authorized by I.C. 17-2-22-3.
   (D)   Collection accounting and disposition.
      (1)   The Board shall collect such fees established as a part of this
section in accordance with the schedule designated under division (F) below.
      (2)   All fees collected by the Board shall be accounted for in detail
for each program service area.
      (3)   All fees collected by the Board shall be transferred to the County
Health Fund. The monies collected in accord with the provisions of this section
shall be used only for the maintenance or future expansion of the specific
program services from which they are derived.
      (4)   Fees collected for health services provided to individuals in other
county health jurisdictions, and involving payment from county tax revenue,
shall be collected in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-1-4-22, as
amended by Pub. Law 53, Acts of 1974.
   (E)   Schedule of fees.
 
Type of Service                    Fee
Environmental health services      $12
Food service establishment license -
Other (specify)                    $10
Septic system permit               -
Water sample
Home health agency services        -
Home care                          -
Home health aide visit             -
Licensed practical nurse visit     -
Other (specify)                    -
Physical therapist visit           -
Registered nurse
Personal health services           -
Immunization (specify)             -
Other (specify)                    -
Tuberculosis (specify)             -
Venereal disease
Vital record services
Adoption                           -
Birth certificates (per copy)      $2
Death certificates (per copy)      $2
Legitimation                       -
Other (specify)                    $1 (each name)
Research records (family history)  $1 (each copy)
Type certificate copy
 
(Ord. 1979-03, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 35.10 ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a fee, uniform
to all PERSONS (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2), for providing electronic map data
that is based upon a reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of
maintaining, upgrading, and enhancing the electronic map, and for the direct
cost of supplying the electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (2)   In the case where disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from nondisclosable electronic map data.
      (3)   It is hereby established by the County Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for electronic map data shall be as
follows:
         (a)   A fee of $1,500 for the initial transmission of available and
disclosable county-wide electronic map data, and $1,500 for annual and/or
continuous updates of county-wide electronic map data;
         (b)   A fee of $75 per hour for the preparation of specifically
requested subsets of the county electronic map data; and
         (c)   A fee of $150 per hour for computer programming required to
separate disclosable and nondisclosable electronic map information.
      (4)   If the county contracts with a third-party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third-party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third, of the fees charged the person
for electronic map data.
      (5)   This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis, and may be
changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost of providing
electronic map data.
   (B)   Exceptions to fee schedule. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), the fee
charged by a county to cover the costs for maintaining, upgrading, and
enhancing an electronic map may be waived by the Board of Commissioners, in
whole or in part, at its discretion, if the use of the electronic map data will
be used for a noncommercial purpose, including the following: public agency
program support; nonprofit activities; journalism; and/or academic research.
   (C)   Third-party contractor.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may
be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third-party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third-party contractor, the county,
or both.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third-
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (D)   Payment.
      (1)   Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery.
      (2)   Where the county has entered into an agreement with a third-party
contractor to provide electronic map data through the third-party contractor’s
computer gateway, the third-party contractor shall handle the billing and
invoicing of the fees charged, and shall agree to send by U.S. Mail that
portion of the fee due to the county’s Electronic Map Generation Fund within
ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to the third-party
contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (E)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any
office, or their contracted third-party contractor, to charge a fee for copies
if the fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the
fees in this section are contrary to any charges established by state statute,
the state statute shall apply.
   (F)   Use restrictions and notice.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no PERSON (as
defined in I.C. 5-14-3-2), other than those authorized in writing by the Board
of Commissioners, may use the electronic map data provided by the county for
commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of
merchandise, goods, or services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver
the information obtained by request to any other person for these purposes.
This includes the repackaging or assimilation of electronic map data for a
commercial purpose in paper or electronic media.
      (2)   A PERSON (as defined in I.C. 5-14-3-2) who uses information in a
manner contrary to this section, or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-
14-3-3, may be prohibited by the county from obtaining any electronic map data.
      (3)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions, and
qualifications shall be provided to every PERSON (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2),
that receives a copy of the county’s electronic map data.
 
   Spencer County electronic map data is the property of Spencer County, Indiana.
All electronic map data supplied by Spencer County has been derived from public
records that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted for content or
accuracy. The County does not guarantee the positional or thematic accuracy of
the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a legal representation of
any of the features depicted, and the County disclaims any assumption of the
legal status they represent. Any implied warranties, including warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, shall be and/or expressly
excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction of data contained in the
County’s computer files. This data may be incomplete or inaccurate, and is
subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, Spencer County cannot be held
liable for errors or omissions in the data. The recipient’s uses and reliance
upon such data is at the recipient’s risk. By using this data, the recipient
agrees to protect, hold harmless, and indemnify Spencer County and its employees
and officers. This indemnity covers reasonable attorney’s fees and all court
costs associated with the defense of Spencer County arising out of this
disclaimer. The recipient may copy this data into computer memory or onto
computer storage devices and prepare derivative works from it.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Indiana Code 5-14-3-3(e), no PERSON (as defined
in Indiana Code 5-14-3-2), other than those authorized in writing by the Board of
Commissioners, may use the electronic map data provided by the county for
commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of
merchandise, goods, or services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver
the information obtained by request to any other person for these purposes. A
person (as defined in Indiana Code 5-14-3-2) who uses information in a manner
contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under Indiana Code 5-14-3-3(e) maybe
prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map data.
   Please refer to Spencer County Ordinance 2003-14 for any other restrictions on
the use of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse electronic map data.
 
      (4)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any PERSON(S) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (G)   Dispute resolution. Any PERSON (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who has a
dispute, or seeks relief from the terms of this section, may seek resolution of
that dispute or relief from the Board of Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2003-14, passed 8-19-2003) Penalty, see §
35.99
FINANCES
§ 35.25 FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)    Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDINGS.
         (a)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, or sprinkler systems, or any part
of the basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed
or purchased exclusively for the building.
         (b)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is extended two years.
         (c)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize that cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (d)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, and any costs
directly attributable to the construction of a building.
         (e)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value
on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
         (f)   Purchases made using federal and state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structure or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government’s general fixed assets.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
         (a)   Those funds used to account for operations:
            1.   That are financed and operated in a manner similar to private
business enterprise - where the intent of the governing body is that the costs
(expense, including depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general
public on a continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user
charges; or
            2.   Where the governing body has decided that periodic
determination of revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is
appropriate for capital maintenance, public policy, management control,
accountability and other purposes.
         (b)   The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of Spencer County, Indiana shall include
the municipally owned water and sewage utilities. Operation of these utilities
shall require enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
      FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production of sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g. land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
      HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchange for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most inventories
are common examples of items recognized under the historical cost attribute.
         (a)   1.   The definition of this group improvements to land for
better enjoyment attached or not easily removed, and will have a life
expectancy of greater than two years.
            2.   Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
         (b)   IMPROVEMENTS do not include roads, streets, or assets that are
of value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon county-owned land that
provide support to our facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon county-owned land for use by the public and
for the support of our facility are capital assets.
         (c)   The county will capitalize new improvements other than buildings
only if it meets the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (d)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (e)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
         (f)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      LAND.
         (a)   This county will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of
cost.
         (b)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright,
as easements, or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures
are roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs, and storm water
collections.
         (c)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or county workers, such as salary and benefits), such as
demolishing buildings, excavating, clean up, and/or inspection.
         (d)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on
the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
         (e)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
         (a)   The definition of machinery and equipment is: an apparatus,
tool, or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and
not become a part of a basic structure or building.
         (b)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up (including contractors and/or
county workers, such as salary and benefits) which makes such equipment
operable for its intended purpose will be capitalized.
         (c)   This county will capitalize items with an individual value equal
to or greater than $2,500. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one
unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be one
unit.
         (d)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
            1.   Total costs exceed $2500;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
         (e)   Examples include:
            1.   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights, or radios
for use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit.
            2.   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the county will capitalize each piece of equipment separately,
if it meets the required dollar amount.
            3.   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer)
is considered one unit.
            4.   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at
fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
            5.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   The county and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the county and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
      (2)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded, for example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
      (3)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detail record of the capital assets of the governmental
unit.
      (4)   The County Auditor will depreciate the capital assets of the county
by using the straight-line method or the composite/group method of
depreciation. Land is not depreciated according to generally accepted
accounting principles. Depreciable property must meet the following
qualifications. The asset must have a useful life of more than two years and
the asset must wear out or lose value over time.
      (5)   USEFUL LIFE is defined for each asset class as follows:
         (a)   Land: not depreciated.
         (b)   Buildings: 50 years.
         (c)   Improvements other than buildings: 15 years.
         (d)   Construction work in progress: not depreciated.
         (e)   Machinery and equipment: ten years, unless otherwise specified
below:
            1.   Distributor trucks and motor graders: 25 years.
            2.   Wheel loaders, dirt loaders, asphalt compactor rollers; snow
plows; sanders and chainsaws: 20 years.
            3.   Sanitation trucks: 15 years.
            4.   Dump trucks, pickups and excavators: ten years.
            5.   Boom mowers and tractors: eight years.
            6.   Patrol cars: five years.
            7.   Infrastructure assets:
               a.   Roads: 50 years.
               b.   Bridges: 75 years.
      (6)   Infrastructure recording keeping and reconciliation.
         (a)   The County Highway Superintendent shall be responsible for
maintaining accurate records regarding all county infrastructures. If roads or
bridges are permanently closed, or new roads are accepted into the county road
system by the Board of Commissioners, such changes shall be recorded by the
County Auditor in the year that such changes occur. If a gravel road is paved,
or if a road is totally redone by milling and paving, or chip sealing, such
improvement shall be considered a capital asset if the cost is $5,000 or
greater.
         (b)   Normal department operating activities regarding
infrastructures, such as feasibility studies, preliminary engineering, and
design, will be expensed rather than capitalized.
   (C)   Safeguarding of assets. Be it ordained that accounting controls be
designed and implemented to provide reasonable assurances that:
      (1)   Accounting controls shall be designed and implemented to provide
reasonable assurances as follows:
         (a)   Capital expenditures made by the county and its various
departments shall be in accordance with the actions documented in the minutes;
         (b)   Adequate detail records shall be maintained to assure
accountability for county-owned assets. All machinery and equipment, as defined
in herein, shall be placed into inventory and adequate detail records shall be
maintained of such inventory to assure accountability for county-owned assets;
         (c)   Access to assets shall be permitted in accordance with the
appropriate authorizations;
         (d)   For the maintenance of the capital asset accounting report and
inventory, the department heads shall have the responsibility to report
additions, retirements, and transfers in detail to the County Auditor in
accordance with procedures set out by the County Auditor. Details shall include
such data elements as asset description, location, make model, serial number,
date of acquisition, cost, life and other information deemed relevant. Reports
to the Auditor shall be made within 30 days, as the capital asset record and
inventory must be kept current. Property shall not be transferred, turned in
for auction or disposed of without the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
Department heads shall report all disposed items to the County Auditor, who
shall remove the items from the county capital asset inventory. All lost or
stolen items shall be reported to the County Auditor by the department heads;
and
         (e)   A physical inventory of capital assets and other inventory shall
be conducted by each department head as near as practicable to year-end. The
County Auditor will make available a list of inventory on file and department
heads will then compare physical observations of assets to the listing noting
whether the assets exist, the location if not apparent otherwise, and relevant
factors. If the condition of an asset has deteriorated to the point its useful
life has been impaired, the facts should be noted, and the reasons for such
omissions should be re-documented to the extent possible. Department heads
shall be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their
department.
      (2)   Capital expenditures made by the county, its various departments
and utilities be in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in
the minutes.
      (3)   Transaction of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles.
      (4)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability for
county and utility owned assets.
      (5)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization. The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any differences.
(Ord. 1997-12, passed 3-18-1997; Ord. 2007-15, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 2022-04,
passed 6-21-2022)
§ 35.26 PAYMENT OF HEALTHCARE-RELATED SERVICES; COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   A person confined to the county jail, except as provided in divisions
(B) and (C) below, shall be required to make co-payments in the amount provided
hereafter for each provision of any of the following services.
 
Type of Care     Co-Payment
Dental care      $10
Eye care         $10
Medical care     $10
Other healthcare $10
 
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to a person confined in the county
jail who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering
(provided, said inmate provides complete and accurate information to allow the
healthcare provider to file a claim for services rendered):
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; and
         (d)   Other healthcare.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for his or her own medical care.
   (C)   A person confined in the county jail is not required to make the co-
payments under division (A) above if:
      (1)   The inmate does not have funds of $5 or more in the inmate’s
commissary account at the time of medical service provided;
      (2)   The inmate does not have funds in the inmate’s commissary account
within 60 days after the service is rendered;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of injury in the jail; and
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or jail
commander.
   (D)   Only the original filling of a specific prescription shall be charged
a $10 co-payment. All refills ordered when the original prescription was
written shall be charged a $5 co-payment.
   (E)   Inmates at the county jail shall not be refused medical care because
of inability to pay. Should an inmate have a $5 balance in the inmate’s
commissary account, the transaction shall be carried on the books for a 60-day
period. Should an inmate receive money within the 60-day period, the co-payment
will be deducted from the inmate’s account. If the inmate receives no funds at
the end of the 60-day period, an adjustment entry will be made to negate the
medical billing transaction. Within the 60-day period if the inmate receives
monies, the outstanding co-payment will be deducted prior to a commissary order
being processed.
   (F)   Monies collected shall be deposited into the County Medical Care For
Inmates Fund, and will be used for the inmate’s medical care.
(Res. 2003-11, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 35.27 PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT OF INCARCERATION COSTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13-15, the Board hereby elects to implement the
provisions of the Act, effective August 1, 1998.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-50-5-4 and 36-2-13-15, a court may order persons
meeting the qualifications set forth in the Act, to execute a reimbursement
plan as directed by the court, and make repayments under the plan to the county
for the costs permitted by the Act.
   (C)   The County Council shall fix a per diem payable by the prisoners which
is reasonably related to the average daily cost of housing a prisoner in the
county’s facilities. Pursuant to the Act, the amount of reimbursement shall be
the sum of:
      (1)   The lesser of such per diem determined by the Council, or $15 per
day multiplied by each day, or part of, that such person is lawfully detained
for more than six hours;
      (2)   The direct cost of investigating whether the person is indigent;
and
      (3)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners hereby directs the County Sheriff to
collect and account for the prisoner reimbursement payments pursuant to the
Act. If the Sheriff fails to collect such amounts, the Sheriff is authorized to
recommend action to hire a collection agency to collect the amount owed. The
Board of Commissioners will consider the Sheriff’s recommendation with respect
to an agreement or arrangement with a collection agency or similar entity to
assist in said collection.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-3-1998; Council Ord. 2003-04, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 35.28 BOARD ALLOWANCES.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-payment procedures:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (6)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (7)   Payroll;
      (8)   State or federal taxes;
      (9)   Unemployment claims;
      (10)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (11)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
and
      (12)   Postage.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to state code, each payment of expenses must be
supported by a fully-itemized invoice or bill and certification by the County
Auditor. The Board of Commissioners shall review and allow the claims at its
next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expense.
      (2)   A payment of expenses under this section must be published in the
manner provided in I.C. 36-2-6-3 whereby the County Auditor shall publish all
claims for consideration of the County Executive at least three days before
each session of the Board of Commissioners in which the Commissioners approve
claims.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 35.29 PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agent.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall be hereby designated as the
purchasing agency for the county for any purchase costing $25,000 or more, and
for the purchase of any computer programs and technology, including services
related thereto, costing $2,000 or more. The Board of Commissioners, in
consultation with the appropriate department head or county office holder,
shall determine whether competitive bidding under I.C. 5-22-7, request for
proposals under I.C. 5-22-9, or invitation for quotes under I.C. 5-22-8-3 will
be used, and how the applicable rules and procedures will be implemented.
      (2)   For purchases by any county department or county office costing
less than $25,000, or for purchases of any computer programs and technology,
including services related thereto, costing less than $750, each department
head or county office holder shall serve as purchasing agent for their
respective department or office.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners, as purchasing agency, and each
department head or county office holder as purchasing agents, shall prepare,
issue, and maintain specifications for use in public purchases, issue and
receive bids, proposals, and quotes for supplies and make purchases pursuant to
the requirements of I.C. 5-22, except as otherwise provided herein or by
subsequent resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   For purchases of supplies costing less than $25,000, it is the
determination of the Board of Commissioners that competitive sealed bidding is
not practical or advantageous. All purchasing agents for, and on behalf of, the
county may use for such purchases requests for proposals using the rules and
procedures set forth in I.C. 5-22-9, or invitations for quotes using the rules
and procedures set forth in I.C. 5-22-8-3. However, for said purchases,
evidence of financial responsibility shall not be required unless, in the
discretion of the purchasing agent, the purchase is one for which it would be
advantageous for the county to require evidence of financial responsibility. In
addition, this provision shall not prevent any purchasing agent from using
competitive sealed bidding in the purchase of supplies costing less than
$25,000 when the purchasing agent believes the county would benefit from
competitive sealed bidding.
      (5)   Purchasing agents designated herein shall request bids, proposals,
and quotations using specifications which encourage the purchase of supplies
manufactured in the United States.
      (6)   Purchasing agents shall purchase from the Department of Correction
supplies and services produced or manufactured by the Department under I.C. 11-
10-6 as listed in the Department’s printed catalog unless the supplies and
services cannot be furnished in a timely manner. Supplies and services
purchased under this section must meet the specifications and needs of the
purchasing body, and be purchased at a fair market value.
   (B)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   The purchasing agent shall retain all offers received in a secure
location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened in order to
prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   After offers have been opened, the purchasing agent shall be
responsible for maintaining the offers in such a manner as to permit evaluation
of the offers by the persons responsible for evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Bids submitted in response to an invitation for bids must be
available for public inspection and copying after the time of the bid opening.
      (4)   The purchasing agent shall prepare a register of proposals for each
request for proposals issued which shall contain information concerning the
proposals available for public inspection and copying in accordance with I.C.
5-22-9-5.
   (C)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may be
obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for award in accordance with I.C. 5-
22-9.
   (D)   Delay of opening of offers. When the Board of Commissioners make a
written determination that its in the county’s best interests, offers may be
opened after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of
the rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the
originally scheduled opening.
   (E)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may not require evidence of financial
responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is less than $25,000.
      (2)   The solicitation may include a requirement that an offeror provide
evidence of financial responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility
is required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be
acceptable. If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
      (3)   The solicitation may include a requirement that an offeror provide
evidence of financial responsibility and, if required, must indicate the kind
of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is required,
it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
      (4)   The purchasing agent may determine that no evidence of financial
responsibility shall be required for a small business set-aside purchase.
   (F)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   The purchasing agent may include provisions to permit price
adjustments in a purchase contract. Any one or more of the following provisions
for price adjustments may be included.
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance, or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon.
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under such clauses, with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   (a)   The purchasing agent may include provisions in a purchase
contract concerning adjustments for time of performance under the contract.
         (b)   The County Commissioners, only, may include provisions in a
contract which allow for a renewal of a contract for purchase of supplies for
not more than a one-year period.
         (c)   Such an extension may not include any other variation in prices
from the original agreement. If any terms other than the extension of time are
varied at the time of renewal/extension, then an extension shall not be
allowable, and an invitation for quotes, request for proposals, or bidding
process must be followed as provided herein.
      (3)   The purchasing agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with the unilateral right of the county to order, in writing, changes
in the work within the scope of the contract, or to order temporary work
stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   The purchasing agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of work in a contract
and the actual quantity delivered.
   (G)   Purchase of services. The county determines that each county agency,
department, and office, and elected county official, may purchase services in
whatever manner the purchaser determines to be reasonable, except for services
related to computer programs and technology costing $2,000 or more. Except as
required by any applicable state or federal law, the county purchasing agent
may not require any county agency, department, or office, or any county elected
official, to purchase services in any particular manner, except for services
related to computer programs or technology costing $2,000.
   (H)   Small business set-aside purchases. The county hereby determines to
establish criteria for determining qualifications as a small business, and to
identify specific supplies for small business set-aside purchases under I.C. 5-
22-14.
      (1)   A business qualifies as a small business if it qualifies as a small
business under standards established by the State Economic Development
Corporation.
      (2)   Businesses that are not small businesses are as follows:
         (a)   A wholesale business, if its average annual sales for its most
recently completed fiscal year exceeds $4,000,000;
         (b)   A construction business, if its average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal years exceeds $4,000,000;
         (c)   A retail business or business selling services, if its annual
sales and receipts exceed $500,000;
         (d)   A manufacturing business, if it employs more than 100 persons;
and
         (e)   A business in any of the following sectors, if it employs more
than 100 persons or if its annual sales exceed $5,000,000:
            1.   Information technology;
            2.   Life sciences;
            3.   Transportation; and/or
            4.   Logistics.
   (I)   State business preference.
      (1)   An offeror is a state business if it is owned or operated, has its
principal place of business operations, or is incorporated in the state.
      (2)   The state business preference shall be applied in accordance with
I.C. 5-22-15.
   (J)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county purchases,
and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds, by an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 35.30 GRANTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any applicant for a grant shall provide to the County Auditor a
complete grant application with all documentation no less than two weeks in
advance of the County Board of Commissioners meeting to give sufficient time
for review of the grant application and the terms of the grant by the county.
      (2)   For any department with a board that governs its actions and
activities, before submitting said grant application to the County Auditor, the
department’s board must take official action in a public meeting to approve the
grant application for any grant which:
         (a)   Requires Board of Commissioner signature or approval;
         (b)   Will be administered through the County Government bank accounts
or funds or with County Auditor involvement in dispersal of funds or reporting;
or
         (c)   The objects or terms of the grant may result in impacts on the
county including, without limitation:
            1.   Additional personnel expenses such as regular pay, overtime
pay, employee benefits, or taxes; or
            2.   Additional insurance or maintenance costs on vehicles,
equipment, software, or other items acquired through grant funds or as a
condition of the grant.
   (B)   The county, through its Board of Commissioners, shall have authority
to approve, revise, or reject the grant application subject to this section
based upon their review and determination that the grant will or will not be in
the county’s best interests.
   (C)   For those grants approved by the county, requests to the Auditor for
disbursement shall be made no less than seven days prior to grant deadlines.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any PERSON(S) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who violates the
terms and conditions of §
35.10 by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for
total fee charged for the electronic map data, plus attorney’s fees and the
cost of collection.
      (2)   Any PERSON(S) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who violates the
restrictions on the use of electronic map data, as set forth in §
35.10(F), shall be guilty of an infraction, and may be fined by the county up
to $2,500, and each violation shall be deemed a separate offense. Also, in the
event that there is an improper use of electronic map data as set forth in §
35.10(F), or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the
PERSON(S) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data
and seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the PERSON
(S) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) who originally purchased the electronic map
data, or any other person(s) who has received a copy of the electronic map
data.
(Ord. 2003-14, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Innkeeper’s tax
   
36.02   County option income tax
   
36.03   Local homestead credit
   
36.04   Tax deduction; heritage barn
   
36.05   Drain tax
   
36.06   Economic development income tax
   
36.07   Dog licensing tax
   
36.08   Evidence of payment of personal property tax
   
36.09   Waiver, negotiation, settlement on delinquent property taxes
Tax Abatement Procedure
   
36.20   General standards and requirements
   
36.21   Application process
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The county does hereby impose the tax on any transaction in the
county in which any room, or rooms, lodging, or accommodations are rented or
furnished in any hotel, motel, boat motel, recreational vehicle, college or
university memorial union, college or university residence hall or dormitory,
or tourist cabin for consideration at a rate equal to 5% of the gross retail
income derived from lodging income only, which tax is in addition to the state
retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5-2, all as provided in I.C. 6-9-18. The tax
shall be imposed, paid, and collected in the same manner as the state gross
retail tax is imposed by I.C. 6-2.5-2, but that collection of said tax, and
payment thereof, shall be made on a monthly basis directly to the Treasurer of
the county. The gross retail income on which the tax is imposed shall not
include the amount of tax imposed on the transaction under I.C. 6-2.5-2.
      (2)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
         (a)   A student rents lodging in a college or university hall while
that student participated in a study for which the student receives college
credit from a college or university located in the county; or
         (b)   A person rents a room, lodging, or accommodations for a period
of 30 days or more.
   (B)   The Council will send a certified copy of this section to the
Commissioner of the State Department of Revenue immediately upon adoption of
this section.
   (C)   All of the provisions of I.C. 6-2.5 relating to the rights, duties,
liabilities, procedures, penalties, definitions, and administration are
applicable to the imposition and administration of the tax imposed under this
section, except to the extent those provisions are in conflict or inconsistent
with the specific provisions of this section or the requirements of the
Treasurer of the county. The return to be filed for the payment of tax under
this section may be either a separate return or may be combined with the return
filed for the payment of the State Gross Retail Tax, as the State Department of
Revenue may, by rule, determine.
   (D)   Money in the Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Promotion Fund shall
be used solely to promote and encourage recreation, visitor industry
development, special events, trade shows, and conventions in, and to, the
county, including administrative and other incidental expenses, if necessary.
Expenditures of funds so collected shall be set forth in a budget to be
submitted annually to the Council for its review and subject to its approval,
and no expenditure may be made using such funds unless it is in accordance with
an appropriation made by the Council in the manner provided by law.
   (E)   (1)   The tax shall be reported and paid to the County Treasurer on
approved forms. The tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer not more than 20
days after the end of the month the tax is collected, pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-
3. The tax shall be postmarked to the County Auditor on or before the twentieth
day of the month following the reporting period. The reporting period runs from
the first of the month through the last day of the month. A 10% penalty of the
base amount due will be assessed on delinquent taxes paid after the last day of
the month following the reporting period. An additional 1% interest will be
assessed on delinquent taxes every 30 days thereafter until all taxes and
penalties are paid in full.
      (2)   Should any taxes be delinquent 30 days or more, a form letter will
be sent to the innkeeper by the Spencer County Visitors Bureau, Inc. (Visitors
Bureau). The letter should indicate taxes are delinquent and notify the
innkeeper of the 10% penalty plus 1% interest due with the next payment.
      (3)   The business/innkeeper will be assessed for any costs and legal
fees associated with the collection of the delinquent taxes.
      (4)   In the event of non-payment or incorrect payment of the imposed
tax, the County Treasurer or the Visitors Bureau is authorized to initiate
legal action against the delinquent business or innkeeper. This includes but is
not limited to, filing lawsuits for the collection of unpaid taxes, penalties,
interest, and associated legal costs.
      (5)   For repeated non-compliance, the county or the Visitors Bureau may
impose additional fines up to $1,000 per incident, subject to review and
adjustment based on the severity and frequency of the violations.
      (6)   The Visitors Bureau is empowered to request audits of any business
suspected of underreporting or evading the innkeeper’s tax. Costs associated
with such audits will be charged to the audited business if non-compliance is
confirmed.
      (7)   A lien may be placed on the property of any business or innkeeper
that fails to pay the assessed tax, penalties, and interest in full. This lien
will secure the amount owed to the county and will be enforced according to
state and local laws.
   (F)   The county will retain 1% of all tax amounts and fees, plus
recuperation of any collection expenses incurred pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section, remitted for deposit into the County General Fund for expenses
incurred in the collection of the tax.
   (G)   (1)   The County Treasurer grants authority and gives permission to
the Visitors Bureau to collect and enforce this section.
      (2)   The department or organization initiating and overseeing collection
of innkeepers’ taxes, either the Visitors Bureau or County Treasurer, will be
responsible for all costs to implement local collection of the innkeeper’s tax.
This may include, but is not limited to, creating, printing, and the
distribution of tax coupons/vouchers, legal fees, and legal advertising. In the
event of joint/cooperative action between two departments or organizations to
collect innkeepers taxes, the parties shall share those costs equally, or as
otherwise agreed to in a written cost sharing agreement.
      (3)   Any department or organization initiating and overseeing collection
of innkeepers’ taxes shall keep record of all costs and legal fees associated
with the collection of delinquent innkeeper's taxes from the delinquent
business/innkeeper. If legal action was required and a court finds that a
business/innkeeper was delinquent in paying its taxes, the court shall order
the delinquent business/innkeeper to pay the applicable department or
organization the full costs and legal fees expended in association with the
collection of such delinquent taxes. If the Visitors Bureau incurs costs
associated with collecting delinquent innkeepers’ taxes without proceeding to a
final court adjudication, the Visitors Bureau may report all costs and fees
associated with the collection of delinquent innkeepers’ taxes from a
delinquent business/innkeeper to the county and the county shall issue an
assessment against that business/innkeeper to reimburse the Visitors Bureau the
full costs expended in association with the collection of those delinquent
taxes within 30 days.
(Council Ord. 1994-3, passed 6-1-1994; Council Ord. 2004-08, passed 5-18-2004;
Council Ord. 2008-17, passed 12-16-2008; Council Ord. 2014-2, passed 1-1-2015;
Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-5-2024; Ord. 2024-08, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.02 COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council permanently freezes the county option income tax
(“COIT”) rates at the rate in effect on January 1, 2003, being 0.3%. This
section remains in effect until an express recission, and shall take effect
July 1, 2003.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall record all votes taken on this section, and
immediately send a certified copy of the results by certified mail to the
Department of State Revenue.
(Council Ord. 2003-5, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 36.03 LOCAL HOMESTEAD CREDIT.
   (A)   The County Council permanently freezes the local homestead credit at
the rate in effect on January 1, 2003, being 4%. This section remains in effect
until an express recission. The local homestead credit shall be in addition to
the credit allowed for homesteads under I.C. 6-1.1-20.9-2.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall record all votes taken on this section, and
immediately send a certified copy of the results by certified mail to the
Department of State Revenue.
(Council Ord. 2003-6, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 36.04 TAX DEDUCTION; HERITAGE BARN.
   (A)   A person receiving a deduction against the assessed value of the
structure and foundation of a heritage barn for property tax under I.C. 6-1.1-
12-26.2 shall be required to pay an annual public safety fee of $50 for each
heritage barn for which the person receives a deduction under I.C. 6-1.1-12-
26.2.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall distribute any public safety fees collected
under I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2 equitably among the Police and Fire Departments in
whose territories each heritage barn is located.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall furnish a copy of this section to the
Department of Local Government Finance in the manner prescribed by the
Department.
(Council Ord. 2015-08, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 36.05 [RESERVED].
§ 36.06 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council imposes the county economic development income tax
on the county taxpayers.
   (B)   The county economic development income tax is imposed at a rate of
0.5% on the county taxpayers.
   (C)   This tax takes effect on July 1, 1990.
(Council Ord. 1990-2, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 36.07 DOG LICENSING TAX.
   Pursuant to I.C. 15-5-9-8(d), the Spencer County Humane Society, Inc., be,
and hereby is, designated to receive $0.50 from each dog tax payment hereafter
collected by the township assessor or township trustee, as the case may be, of
each township of the county, and that said humane society shall use the funds
disbursed to it to maintain an animal shelter.
(Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 36.08 EVIDENCE OF PAYMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   All persons filing an application for a registration of a motor
vehicle, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, tractor, farm tractor used in
transportation, bus, school bus, house, car, or special farm machinery, and
mobile homes with any auto license branch in the county shall, at the time of
registration, submit a valid receipt from the County Treasurer showing that all
personal property taxes have been paid in full, or if not subject to tax,
evidence of such fact of the type now, or formerly required, under the laws of
the state.
   (B)   Said license branch office shall enter, on the face of the
registration form, the number of the receipted tax duplicate and the county
from which issued, or in the event that certification is received from the
County Treasurer that the owner owes no taxes, or from the County Assessor that
the owner is not subject to assessment, the licenses branch shall number each
certificate receipt and scribe the number of each certificate on the
registration form.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.09 WAIVER, NEGOTIATION, SETTLEMENT ON DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   The policy of the county is to only waive, negotiate, or settle
penalties on delinquent property taxes in limited circumstances. Therefore, the
County Treasurer and the County Auditor will only consider waiving,
negotiating, or settling penalties on delinquent property taxes if all the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The County Assessor, Auditor, and Treasurer have agreed to the
waiver, negotiation, or settlement (hereinafter referred to as the
“settlement”).
      (2)   The penalties being waived, negotiated, or settled within the
settlement are associated with parcels (the “property”) for which the owner
(the “owner”) of the parcels has appealed the assessed value determined by the
County Assessor to the County Property Tax Board of Appeals.
      (3)   The appeal of the property tax assessments for the property has not
been resolved prior to when the property taxes on the property are first due
for the property tax assessments under appeal.
      (4)   The settlement is executed, in writing, between the County
Assessor, Auditor, Treasurer, and the owner.
      (5)   A copy of the executed settlement is provided to the owner or the
owner’s authorized representative.
   (B)   The County Auditor will ensure that the settlement is documented in
accordance with any requirements provided by the State Department of Local
Government Finance, and will provide all documentation related to the
settlement to the State Board of Accounts upon request.
(Council Res. 2021-02, passed 3-15-2021)
TAX ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 36.20 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for designation as an economic revitalization area shall
meet at least one of the following criteria.
      (1)   The area has become undesirable for, or impossible of, normal
development and occupancy because of a lack of development, cessation of
growth, deterioration of improvements, or character of occupancy, age,
obsolescence, substandard buildings, or other factors which have impaired
values or prevent a normal development of property, or use of property.
      (2)   Any area where a facility, or group of facilities, that are
technologically, economically, or energy obsolete are located, and where the
obsolescence may lead to a decline in employment and tax revenues.
   (B)   Tax abatement may be allowed for projects in the following categories:
      (1)   Manufacturing property consisting of new, improved, or expanded
building or structure, but not including land;
      (2)   Warehousing as a part of renovation and/or expansion of vacant
manufacturing structures, or the construction of a new facility; and
      (3)   Renovation of vacant manufacturing facilities.
   (C)   Tax abatement on the increase in assessed valuation of structures is
not available to retail businesses or other facilities, as set out in I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-3(e).
   (D)   Application for deduction from assessed valuation of structures in
economic revitalization areas will be made on forms prescribed by the State
Board of Tax Commissioners and be accompanied with a statement of benefits form
as prescribed by the State Board of Tax Commissioners. A completed statement of
benefits form must be submitted to the Council before the hearing specified in
I.C. 6-1.1-12.1, or before the installation of the new equipment for which the
person desires to claim a deduction.
   (E)   Tax abatement may be granted for NEW MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT, as
defined in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 and as described in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5. Tax
abatement for new manufacturing equipment may be granted for a period of five
or ten years, depending upon the facts and circumstances as set forth in the
statement of benefits for new manufacturing equipment which:
      (1)   Is used in the direct production, manufacture, fabrication,
assembly, extraction, mining, processing, refining, or finishing of other
tangible personal property;
      (2)   Was acquired by its owner for use as described in division (E)(1)
above, and was never before used by its owner for any purpose in the state; and
      (3)   Is installed in an economic revitalization area.
   (F)   Tax abatement will not be granted for a project that does not meet the
qualifications of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
   (G)   The project must begin within 12 months of the date of passage of the
tax abatement resolution.
   (H)   Data relating to current taxes, projected taxes with and without tax
abatement, and the tax deferral shall be provided as part of the application.
   (I)   For a real property tax abatement application, a site plan, maps,
plats, or simplified description of the area by describing its location in
relation to public ways, streams, or otherwise, must be submitted with the
application. For new manufacturing equipment tax abatement, the application
must include information concerning the new manufacturing equipment specific
enough to allow the equipment to be readily identified.
(Council Res. 1992-2, passed 2-18-1992; Council Res. 1997-01, passed 1-2-1997)
§ 36.21 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   An application seeking designation of an area as an economic
revitalization area shall be filed with the County Auditor and any other
appropriate county official. Such application shall be on forms prescribed by
the State Board of Tax Commissioners, and be accompanied by a completed
statement of benefits form prescribed by the State Board of Tax Commissioners,
and shall also contain supporting documentation relative to the matters set
forth in §
36.20.
   (B)   The application for tax abatement shall also contain all information
as required by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1, and any other pertinent state statute(s).
   (C)   The County Auditor, upon receipt of the application, is directed to
review each such application for completeness and accuracy, gather and request
additional information needed by the County Council to make an appropriate,
informed decision, analyze the application and supplemental material, and
submit such general comments on the acceptability or unacceptability of the
request for economic revitalization area designation as he or she deems
appropriate.
   (D)   Compliance with the statement of benefits filed by the applicant
seeking tax abatement shall be shown as prescribed by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
(Council Res. 1992-2, passed 2-18-1992; Council Res. 2006-05, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any manager or employee of any license branch in the county who issues
any registration or license plates without obtaining the proper evidence of
payment of all personal property, as stated in §
36.08, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine in a sum not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Use of recycled paper for use in operations
   
37.02   Adoption of Title VI
   
37.03   Adoption of the ADA Transition Plan
   
37.04   Internal control standards
   
37.05   National incident management system standards
   
37.06   Pretrial diversion program
   
37.07   Acquisition of environmentally-hazardous property
   
37.08   Highway Department charges for assistance to other municipalities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 USE OF RECYCLED PAPER FOR USE IN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The county shall purchase recycled paper for use in its operations if
recycled paper is reasonably cost competitive with virgin paper. REASONABLY
COST COMPETITIVE means that recycled paper is no more than 15% more expensive
than the alternative.
   (B)   The county hereby sets purchasing goals for recycled paper. The goal
for fiscal year 1994 is 10%. This amount shall increase by 10% each fiscal year
until 50% of paper purchases are recycled paper.
   (C)   The county hereby adopts the U.S. EPA specifications for recycled
paper as a guideline.
(Res. 1993-5, passed 7-2-1993)
§ 37.02 ADOPTION OF TITLE VI.
   (A)   The final County Title VI Nondiscrimination Plan (“the Plan”) is
adopted.
   (B)   The Title VI Coordinator and Co-Coordinator are hereby directed to
perform those tasks set forth in the Plan, including the following:
      (1)   Administer and implement the county’s Title VI Plan and policy;
      (2)   Develop and maintain the Title VI liaison team to ensure
departments are implementing, monitoring, and complying with the county’s Title
VI Plan and policy;
      (3)   Conduct Title VI yearly reviews with liaisons in an effort to
assist with identifying and addressing discrimination concerns in every
department;
      (4)   Conduct or facilitate Title VI training programs with department
liaisons for dissemination to employees;
      (5)   Address all Title VI discrimination complaints;
      (6)   Prepare and submit the annual Title VI update report; and
      (7)   Perform all other tasks and duties as set forth in the Title VI
Nondiscrimination Plan and policy.
(Res. 2016-13, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 37.03 ADOPTION OF THE ADA TRANSITION PLAN.
   The County ADA Transition Plan for Public Rights-of-Way and any and all
amendments made thereto by ordinance by the county are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code as if fully set out herein.
(Res. 2016-03, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 37.04 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA, contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual,
are hereby adopted by the county, and that county personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
   (B)   The county establishes the following materiality policy under I.C. 5-
11-1-10, I.C. 5-11-1-21, and I.C. 5-11-1-27.
      (1)   MATERIALITY, in the county government, is defined as $500 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage or other
irregularity is equal to or greater than $500, it must be reported to the State
Board of Accounts. The MATERIALITY definition is not limited to defalcations of
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions.
      (2)   If supplies, equipment, or other fixed assets belonging to the
county are suspected of being misappropriated, stolen, or used in a manner not
authorized by the county officials, and the value of those supplies, equipment,
or fixed assets are approximately $500, that misuse, or series of misuse,
should be reported. That is not to say that if a loss or shortage is less than
$500 it should be ignored.
      (3)   If there is a series of events within the same office or
department, that appears to be a structuring event to defraud or misappropriate
county funds or property, that event or series of events should be reported.
   (C)   (1)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be
reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts.
      (2)   For all material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts, the State
Board of Accounts shall:
         (a)   Determine the amount of funds involved, and report the amount to
the appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
         (b)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the condition; and
         (c)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body
or appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
            1.   The method of correcting the condition; and
            2.   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1), if any county employee knows or
suspects that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his or her responsibility to immediately notify his or her supervisor or the
Board of Commissioners; or if the supervisor or a Commissioner is involved, the
County Attorney; or if the employee has concerns about informing the County
Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be contacted.
   (E)   The County Ethics Policy/Internal Control/Materiality Declaration
regarding establishment of a policy on materiality and a process for reporting
material items, which was reviewed and approved by the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Council in April 2016, is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 37.05 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The President in Homeland Security Directive (HSPD)-5, directed the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop and administer a
National Incident Management System (NIMS), which would provide a consistent
nationwide approach for federal, state, local, and tribal governments to work
together more effectively and efficiently to prevent, prepare for, respond to,
and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size, or complexity.
   (B)   To facilitate the most efficient and effective incident management it
is critical that federal, state, local, and tribal organizations utilize
standardized terminology, standardized organizational structures, interoperable
communications, consolidated action plans, unified command structures, uniform
personnel qualification standards, uniform standards for planning, training,
and exercising, comprehensive resource management, and designated incident
facilities during emergencies or disasters.
   (C)   It is necessary and desirable that all county departments and
personnel coordinate their efforts to effectively and efficiently provide the
highest levels of incident management.
   (D)   The NIMS standardized procedures for managing personnel,
communications, facilities, and resources will improve the county’s ability to
utilize federal funding to enhance local readiness, maintain first responder
safety, and streamline incident management processes.
   (E)   The incident command system components of NIMS are already an integral
part of various incident management activities throughout the county.
   (F)   The County Commissioners do hereby establish the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) as the county standard for incident management.
(Res. 2005-14, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 37.06 PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The County Prosecutor’s office is hereby authorized to establish,
maintain, and administer a Pretrial Diversion Program concerning such
misdemeanors and infractions as the Prosecutor shall deem appropriate,
including the setting of terms and conditions of any deferred agreement, and
the imposition of a deferral program fees consisting of an initial user’s fee
of $50 and a monthly user’s fee of $10 for each month that the person remains
in the Pre-Trial Diversion Program, as the same may be set by the legislature
from time to time, and as is now provided in I.C. 33-37-4-1 and 33-37-4-2.
   (B)   The Pretrial Diversion Program fees, as collected by the Clerk, shall
be first subject to the payment of monthly claims submitted on oath to the
fiscal body of the county by the Pretrial Diversion Program of the County
Prosecutor’ s office with all amounts not so appropriated by the fiscal body
from the Deferral Program Fees as initially deposited in the County User Fee
Fund to be deposited by the Auditor of the county into the Pretrial Diversion
Program Fund.
   (C)   The amounts deposited in the Pretrial Diversion Program Fund,
maintained by the Auditor of the county, may be appropriated by the adoption of
an ordinance by the fiscal body pursuant to I.C. 33-37-8-7.
(Ord. 1995-8, passed 12- -1995)
§ 37.07 ACQUISITION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY-HAZARDOUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prior to any acquisition by the county of any real property for said
regional flood recovery projects, the existing landowner shall be required to
accurately complete a real estate disclosure form as required by I.C. 3-25-3
(State Responsible Property Transfer Law), disclosing any environmental defects
with regard to the property, along with a seller’s residential real estate
sales disclosure form, as required by I.C. 24-4.6-2 regarding the known
physical condition of the property.
   (B)   For any real property proposed to be acquired, which has any known or
suspected environmental defect based on the existing use and condition, or the
historical use or condition, of the property, or as a result of any disclosures
made in said disclosure documents, the county shall not be obligated to acquire
said property. For any such property subject to an environmental defect, the
county may, nevertheless, acquire said property after the landowner has
obtained a Phase I Environmental Assessment and cleaned up any environmental
defects reported in the said Phase I Environmental Assessment at the
landowner’s expense.
(Res. 1998-03, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 37.08 HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT CHARGES FOR ASSISTANCE TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   The Spencer County Highway Department may provide assistance to local
municipalities when clean-up is necessary following floods or storms or other
weather emergencies.
   (B)   Any Spencer County municipality may request the assistance of the
Spencer County Highway Department in the event of an emergency that requires
assistance of Spencer County Highway Department personnel and equipment.
   (C)   An agreement for reimbursement shall be executed by authorized
individuals of the municipality prior to the Spencer County Highway Department
sending personnel and equipment.
   (D)   The county shall keep track of the resources provided for said
emergencies. The charge to the requesting municipality shall be based on
charges using FEMA hourly rates for rental for vehicles as currently listed on
Exhibit A of Res. No. 2023-07. These charges shall be subject to change as the
FEMA rates change.
   (E)   In addition, the county charges shall include reimbursement for hourly
rates and payroll taxes actually incurred. Those payroll expenses shall include
any overtime rates that may be incurred by the county.
   (F)   Any county equipment shall only be operated by Spencer County Highway
Department personnel.
   (G)   The Spencer County Highway Department shall provide equipment and
personnel as they are available.
(Res. 2023-07, passed 11-21-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWAGE
      
51.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: SEWAGE
Section
   
50.01   Incorporation of state statutes
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For installer of utilities certification, see §
110.02
§ 50.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE STATUTES.
   The statutes, rules, and regulations of the Indiana Code and Indiana
Department of Health are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if
fully set forth herein, and as the same may be amended or revised from time to
time:
   (A)   410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, Residential On-site Sewage Systems, et seq.
   (B)   410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, Commercial On-site Sewage Systems, et seq.
   (C)   I.C. 13-18-12, Water Pollution Control.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person constructing, installing, replacing, or repairing any on-
site sewage disposal system without a valid certification, as provided by this
subchapter, in the county shall be deemed to be in violation of the subchapter.
A person who is in violation of this subchapter shall be fined, for the first
offense, not more than $500; and for the second and each subsequent offense not
more than $1,000. Each violation of this subchapter shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate a written abatement order properly issued
by the Health Officer shall be punished by a fine of $100. Each day the
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate
fine may be levied.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Removal of refuse in privately-owned containers fees
   
51.02   Securing of loads being hauled
Disposal of Garbage, Rubbish
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Permits
   
51.17   Inspection of public disposal sites and operations
   
51.18   Sanitary requirements
   
51.19   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 REMOVAL OF REFUSE IN PRIVATELY-OWNED CONTAINERS FEES.
   (A)   All persons, companies, corporations, partnerships, and other legal
entities who shall maintain a dumpster or other container which is privately
owned for their personal use, and which is emptied and the contents thereof
disposed of by county-owned equipment or by county personnel, shall pay a fee
for said services, which shall be assessed and changed or amended from time to
time.
   (B)   The amount of the fees so charged shall be the sum of $10 per dumpster
or container, per month.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to amend the fee
herein from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 81-1, passed 3-16-1981)
§ 51.02 SECURING OF LOADS BEING HAULED.
   (A)   No person shall haul any item on county roads without securing the
load to prevent escape.
   (B)   Any person hauling trash, debris, or other loose items in an open top
vehicle or trailer shall be required to keep the contents secured with ropes,
netting, tarp(s), or other cover sufficient to prevent escape of the load while
moving.
   (C)   Any person hauling trash in bags shall be required to load the vehicle
or trailer no higher than the sideboards (front side and rear) of the truck or
trailer, or, if higher, then the load shall be secured by tarp(s) or netting of
sufficient strength to contain the load.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-2-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners or its authorized
representatives.
   CONTAINER SITE. The area immediately surrounding a container.
   CONTAINERS. Sanitary receptacles for the receipt of refuse to be located at
various convenient pickup points throughout the county.
   COUNTY. The areas which are under the jurisdiction of the County Health
Officer, and situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including every waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food, or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fruit, or
vegetables.
   GROUNDWATER. Water in the ground that is in the zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Includes, but is not limited to, explosives,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials, and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her authorized
representatives.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, or association.
   PUBLIC DISPOSAL. Disposal of refuse which has been removed from the premises
used, owned, or leased by one or more persons, firms, corporations, or
associations, and transported to other premises and disposed either with or
without the payment of a fee.
   REFUSE. Any combination of garbage and rubbish.
   REFUSE VEHICLE. Any vehicle utilized for the transportation of refuse.
   RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery,
dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds, or litter of any kind.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing principles of
engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce it
to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a compacted layer of
suitable cover material at the conclusion of each day, and at more frequent
intervals as necessary.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SURFACE WATER. Any body of water whose top surface is exposed to the
atmosphere, including a flowing body as well as a pond and lake.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 51.16 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked
annual disposal permit from the Health Officer for each refuse vehicle operated
to engage in the county in the commercial pickup and disposal for profit of
refuse from the premises to a location other than the place of origin of such
refuse for disposal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked
annual disposal permit from the Health Officer for each refuse vehicle operated
to engage in the county in the commercial pickup and disposal for profit of
refuse on the premises other than the place of origin of such refuse, or on the
premises at the place of origin in such quantities as to have public health
significance.
   (C)   Only persons providing proof of proper registration and licensing of
their refuse vehicles in the county, and who comply with the requirements of
this subchapter, shall be entitled to receive and retain such an annual
disposal permit. The disposal permit shall be for the term of one year on a
calendar year basis, and shall be renewable annually. Any disposal permit
issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the person to whom the
permit is granted, the identification number and licensing information for that
particular refuse vehicle, the address of the person to whom it is issued, and
such other pertinent information as may be required by the Health Officer. A
disposal permit shall be issued to any person who has complied with the
requirements of this subchapter, and no permit, or renewal thereof, shall be
denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds. A disposal permit may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Officer upon violation by the holder of any of the
terms of this subchapter, or revoked after an opportunity for a hearing by the
Health Officer upon serious or repeated violation. A separate disposal permit
shall be required for each refuse vehicle operated, or to be operated, by any
person.
   (D)   No fee shall be charged for said permit. The permit shall be valid
when signed by the Health Officer and counter-signed by the County Auditor.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any dead animal in any container,
or at any container site or landfill site. It shall also be unlawful to dispose
of any tires, tubes, or similar items in any container or at any container
site, but these items must be taken directly to the sanitary landfill.
   (F)   Any retail or wholesale establishment or business not serviced by
municipal or commercial pickup facilities shall be responsible for delivering
their refuse directly to a county landfill site. It shall be unlawful for any
such establishment to deposit refuse at any of the various container sites
throughout the county. This division (F) shall not apply to those
establishments which have container sites established by the county landfill
operation on real property owned or leased by said establishments and donated
to the county for said container sites.
   (G)   A disposal site permit must be obtained from the County Health Officer
for the operation of any sanitary landfill site in the county which is not
operated by the County Board of Commissioners as a county function. A fee of $5
shall be charged for each disposal site permit, and said permit shall be valid
for a period of one year, unless sooner revoked. Before a disposal site permit
shall be issued by the Health Officer, the site must be properly zoned by the
County Area Planning Commission and approved by the County Board of
Commissioners, and detailed plans and specifications, including all necessary
reports, must be submitted to the Health Officer by a registered professional
engineer.
   (H)   Before a disposal permit is issued by the Health Officer for the
collection and transportation of refuse, all equipment and refuse vehicles to
be used which require a permit shall be inspected by the Health Officer or his
or her representative. All equipment and refuse vehicles used to transport
refuse to a disposal site shall be covered, and all vehicles requiring permits
shall be watertight and shall be cleaned as may be necessary to prevent
nuisances and health hazards.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 3-20-1989; Ord. passed 7-2-1990) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITES AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   At least once each month, the Health Officer and/or the County Board
of Commissioners shall inspect each refuse disposal site within the county.
   (B)   In case the Health Officer discovers a violation of any item of
sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall make
a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he or she deems necessary
for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be used in
determining compliance with the terms of this subchapter. Any violation of the
same item of the same ordinance on such second inspection shall call for
suspension or revocation of the permit.
   (C)   One copy of the Health Officer’s inspection report, on which
violations of any item of sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this
subchapter shall be enscribed, and shall be delivered to the permittees by the
Health Officer. Another copy of the aforementioned inspection report shall be
filed by the Health Officer with the records of the County Commissioners. The
person operating the public disposal site shall, upon request of the Health
Officer, permit access to all parts of the grounds by said Health Officer, and/
or his or her representative, and shall permit the copying of any and all
records pertaining to the sources of refuse transported thereto for public
disposal.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 51.18 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The issuance of any permit to a person for the operation of a proposed
refuse disposal site shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer,
who shall inspect the proposed site prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   Sanitary landfill operations shall be so designed and executed that
conditions of pollution will not be created, and injury to ground and surface
waters avoided, which might interfere with legitimate water uses. Water-filled
areas not directly connected to natural lakes, rivers, or streams shall be
drained, or may be filled with specific inert material not detrimental to
legitimate water uses, and which will not create a nuisance or hazard to
health. Special approval of the drainage method or of the inert material to be
used in such fill is required, in writing, from the Health Officer.
   (C)   Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it will not
interfere with prompt sanitary disposal of refuge or create unsightliness or
health hazards. This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill
operator to prevent salvaging as a part of his or her operational standards.
Scavenging shall not be permitted. All salvage material must be removed from
the disposal area at least once each week, except that any and all materials
containing food for rodents and insects, including tin cans, shall be disposed
of daily in a sanitary manner.
   (D)   No garbage, or rubbish containing garbage, shall be burned at a
sanitary landfill.
   (E)   Any person engaged in public refuse disposal by the sanitary landfill
shall have available, at all times, earth-moving equipment of adequate size and
capacity to satisfactorily operate such sanitary landfill. An all-weather road
shall be provided to the sanitary landfill site and site of operation.
   (F)   It shall be expressly forbidden to make uncooked garbage available for
animal consumption at any public refuse disposal site.
   (G)   Infestation of rodents and insects on the premises of a public refuse
disposal site shall constitute a violation of this subchapter, and such
violation shall be determined by the County Health Officer.
   (H)   Hazardous materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be
disposed of in a sanitary landfill unless special provisions are made for such
disposal through the Health Officer, the State Board of Health, and/or the
Stream Polluting Control Board. This provision in no way precludes the right of
a landfill operator to exclude any materials as a part of his or her
operational standards.
   (I)   The entire site, including the fill surface, shall be graded and
provided with drainage facilities to minimize runoff onto and into the fill, to
prevent erosion or washing of the fill, to drain off rainwater falling on the
fill, and to prevent the collection of standing water.
   (J)   Measures shall be provided to control dust and blowing paper. The
entire area shall be kept clean and orderly.
   (K)   Modification of the rules on sanitary landfills, as applicable, to
existing disposal areas may be made by the Health Officer. These modifications
must be approved in writing.
   (L)   Refuse shall be spread so that it can be compacted in layers not
exceeding a depth of two feet. Large and bulky items, when not excluded from
the site, shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (M)   A final layer of suitable cover material compacted to a minimum
thickness of two feet shall be placed over the entire surface of each portion
not later than one week following the placement of refuse within that portion.
   (N)   (1)   An inspection of the entire site shall be made by the Health
Officer to determine compliance with approved plans and specifications before
the earth equipment is removed from the site.
      (2)   Any necessary corrective work shall be performed before the
landfill project is accepted as completed.
      (3)   Arrangements shall be made for the repair of all cracked/eroded and
uneven areas in the final cover during the first two years following completion
of the landfill.
   (O)   Any other method of solid waste disposal not covered by these rules
shall be reviewed by the Health Department for the purpose of evaluating the
design and operational methods, with reference to the nuisance factor, the
safety of employees, and protection of the public health. Such disposal method
shall be subject to the evaluation and approval of the Health Officer.
   (P)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put, throw, dump, or
leave refuse in or upon the container site. All refuse shall be put into the
containers.
      (2)   In the event all containers on said sites shall be full, said
person or persons shall return on the next working day to dispose of their
refuse.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put, throw, dump, or leave
large and/or bulky items in refuse containers or areas, such as refrigerators,
chairs, tables, sofas, tree limbs, brush cuttings, fence, posts, pipe, and the
like, including brick stones or dirt, when the total weight is more than 50
pounds. All such items shall be taken directly to the sanitary landfill.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put, throw, dump, or leave
hazardous material, including, but not limited to, explosives, pathological
wastes, radioactive materials, and chemicals.
   (S)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, mutilate, destroy,
disfigure, or cause damage to refuse containers.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit burning material at a
landfill site, in containers, or at a container site.
   (U)   It shall be unlawful for a commercial refuse hauler to deposit trash
in containers. Commercial refuse haulers must deliver refuse to a landfill
site.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 3-20-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be by the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney, to whom the
County Sheriff’s Department shall report any violation of the provisions of
this subchapter, to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person
violating the provisions of this subchapter, and to prosecute to final
termination.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
51.15 through
51.19 shall, upon conviction, be punished for the first offense by a fine of
not less than $250, but not more than $500; for the second offense, by a fine
of not less than $500, but not more than $1,000; and for the third and each
subsequent offense, by a fine of not less than $1,000, but not more than
$2,500, and each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating
insanitary conditions and completing improvement to abate such conditions, as
ordered by the County Board of Health or by the duly appointed Health Officer
of the county, shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
   (C)   Overfilling the vehicle or trailer, or failing to cover and secure the
said load while the vehicle is moving, as stated in §
51.02, shall be a Class C infraction, and subject to fines and costs as a Class
C infraction in the state code.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-2-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Removal of vehicles from county roads during emergency
   
70.02   Procedures for truck hauling permit
   
70.03   Placement of traffic cameras
Weight Restrictions
   
70.15   Weight restrictions
   
70.16   Maximum load limits for bridges
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM COUNTY ROADS DURING EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall leave parked, stranded, or immobile vehicles on the
traveled portion of any county roadway.
   (B)   During a state of emergency in the county, which has been declared by
any authorized government official, the County Highway Department employees and
the County Sheriff’s officers shall be empowered to do the following: Any
authorized, on-duty County Highway Department employee or any County Police
Officer who finds a vehicle stranded upon any county road in violation of this
section shall be empowered to direct the person driving the vehicle to move the
vehicle to a position off the paved, improved, or main traveled part of said
county road.
   (C)   If the person so directed fails, refuses, or is unable to move the
vehicle, or if the vehicle is unattended, the vehicle may be moved to the side
of the road to clear the traveled portion of the roadway. Said vehicles shall
be moved using the most expedient means readily available to minimize damage to
the subject vehicle.
(Ord. 1996-19, passed 12- -1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PROCEDURES FOR TRUCK HAULING PERMIT.
   Upon receiving an application for a truck hauling permit on specified county
roads, the County Highway Superintendent shall follow these procedures:
   (A)   Make, with the applicant, a visual examination of said specified
county road and complete a report on road condition and bond determination;
   (B)   On the report on road condition and bond determination, the Highway
Superintendent shall specify the type of surface, the defects on said road,
and, based on said defects, shall determine the condition of said road
according to the following scale:
 
Poor Fair Good Excellent
 
   (C)   Based upon his or her determination of the road condition, the Highway
Superintendent shall determine, in said report, the tentative bond to be posted
by the applicant, in accordance with the following tables:
 
Road Condition Percent of Maximum Bond Required
Excellent      100%
Good           85%
Fair           70%
Poor           55%
 
Maximum Bond Required (per mile):
Chip and seal    $75,000
Gravel           $50,000
Surface blacktop $200,000
 
   (D)   After determining the total amount of bond to be posted by the
applicant, the Highway Superintendent shall determine the amount of said bond
which shall be posted as a cash bond and the amount which shall be posted as a
surety bond;
   (E)   Twenty percent of the total bond to be posted shall be in the form of
a cash bond. At the discretion of the applicant, the cash bond may be posted in
the form of a cashier’s check or certified check, or invested in a local
depository of public funds in a savings account or certificate of deposit. The
cash bond is to be issued in the name of the County Board of Commissioners with
any interest earned thereon to be credited to the applicant, or in the name of
the applicant with a full assignment of the instrument or account to the County
Board of Commissioners with any interest earned thereon to be credited to the
applicant. If the cash bond is not claimed by the Board of Commissioners, as
provided for in division (J) below and the agreement hereinafter set forth, the
cash bond, and any interest earned thereon, will be returned to the applicant.
No cash bond, however, shall be tentatively computed for businesses and
individuals who have continuously, under a duly issued permit, used, operated
over, and satisfactorily maintained, in the sole discretion of the Board of
Commissioners, designated county highways and roads for five immediately
preceding years, and who have not been in default on, sued upon, or forfeited
bonds on said highways and roads. Instead, only an approved surety bond shall
be tentatively required for said total bond;
   (F)   The Highway Superintendent’s determination of road condition and bond
requirement are recommendations, and only the tentative and final decision lies
with the Board of Commissioners in their sole discretion;
   (G)   Upon receiving an application for a truck hauling permit on specified
county roads for which such a truck hauling permit already exists for all or
some of the same specified county road, the Highway Superintendent shall
immediately notify the County Auditor of said application. The County Auditor
shall then immediately notify, by mail, the holder of such existing permit and
his or her surety of said application. Such notification shall not reduce the
amount of bond which the applicant will be required to post;
   (H)   The Highway Superintendent shall complete the attached agreement, and
have the applicant read and execute it;
   (I)   Upon completion of the application for a truck hauling permit on
specified county roads, the report of road condition and bond determination,
and the agreement, the Highway Superintendent shall supply a copy of these
forms to the applicant and present them at the next meeting of the Board of
Commissioners for their review and action. Upon approval by the Board of
Commissioners of the recommendations by the Highway Superintendent, the
agreement, and the bond, the Highway Superintendent shall issue to the
applicant a truck hauling permit on specified county roads. Said permit shall
be effective during the term said bond is effective and in full force, or until
revoked by the Board of Commissioners in their sole discretion, whichever shall
first occur;
   (J)   The Highway Superintendent shall routinely inspect said specified
county road for which a permit has been issued to assure that said road is
being maintained by the permittee in at least as well a condition as approved
by the Board of Commissioners. Should he or she find inadequate maintenance, he
or she shall immediately report such finding to the Board of Commissioners. He
or she shall also give three days’ notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or personal delivery to the permittee to repair or maintain said
road to his or her satisfaction. If the needed maintenance or repair is not
done within three days of delivery of the notice, the Highway Superintendent
shall immediately make the necessary repairs or provide the needed maintenance.
After the maintenance or repair work is completed, the permittee and the County
Auditor shall be notified by the Highway Superintendent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal delivery of the amount of money and
expense expended for such maintenance and repair. If the permitted does not pay
said amount to the County Auditor within seven days of delivery of the notice
to pay, the Board of Commissioners will withdraw said amount from the cash bond
and notify the permittee of the withdrawal by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or personal delivery. Within ten days of delivery of notice of
withdrawal, the permittee shall deposit a cash payment equal to said amount
with the County Auditor. If full payment is not made, the Board of
Commissioners may order that said permit be revoked until full payment is made.
The procedure set forth above shall in no way be construed to limit in time or
in order any or all other remedies available to the Board of Commissioners,
including, but not limited to, declaring cash and surety bonds breached,
enforcing their rights under said surety bond, requiring the permittee to pay
the expenses, costs, and attorney’s fees incurred by the Board in enforcing the
section, and immediately terminating said permit; and
   (K)   Upon the request of a permittee who declares that he or she has
terminated his or her operation and no longer will use said specified county
road for a continuous or extended period of time, the Highway Superintendent
shall, with the permittee, make a visual examination of said road, noting
defects in said road and making a preliminary determination of the condition of
said road at that time. He or she shall also notify the Board of Commissioners
of the request, who will schedule a public hearing on the matter at their next
meeting prior to which legal notice to the public of such hearing can be given
for one week. The Highway Superintendent shall present his or her findings and
determination to the Board of Commissioners at the public hearing, and the
public and the permittee shall have the right to be heard. Upon review and
approval by the Board of Commissioners of the Highway Superintendent’s report,
or after amendment thereof and compliance by the permittee, said permit shall
be terminated, and cash and surety bonds unclaimed during the term of the
permit shall be returned to the permittee.
(Document passed 11-3-1980; Am. Ord. 2008-04, passed 2-4-2008; Am. Ord. 2018-
10, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 70.03 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC CAMERAS.
   (A)   The Spencer County Sheriff’s Office is authorized to locate and
install the traffic monitor cameras alongside county roads at locations to be
determined with input of the County Highway Superintendent. Consideration for
specific placement shall be given to safety and protection of the public.
   (B)   The Superintendent and Sheriff shall take into consideration guidance
contained in the Indiana Department of Transportation Permit Operations Manual
which may be approved or revised by INDOT.
   (C)   The devices shall be installed on poles which are breakaway or
yielding when placed roadside.
   (D)   Maintenance of said cameras shall be the responsibility of the
Sheriff’s Department.
   (E)   Specific locations shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners
upon recommendations received by the Spencer County Sheriff and Spencer County
Highway Superintendent.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-18-2023)
WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
§ 70.15 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General weight restrictions.
      (1)   (a)   Truck hauling permit. All persons, companies, corporations,
partnerships, and other legal entities shall be required to obtain a truck
hauling permit prior to operating any motor vehicle upon any road within the
jurisdiction of the County Highway System if the total gross vehicle weight or
gross vehicle weight rating is in excess of the posted weight limit for said
road, as hereinafter provided.
         (b)   Requirement. Each motor vehicle required by this section to have
a truck hauling permit shall display the permit on the truck in a place visible
from the exterior of the truck.
      (2)   This section shall apply to all highways in the County Highway
System under the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners, except highways in
the State Highway System, and the state maintained routes thereof, through
cities and towns.
      (3)   The exemptions set forth below, as contained in I.C. 9-20-2-2, I.C.
9-20-2-1, and I.C. 9-13-2-77, all as amended from time to time, shall apply to
this section.
         (a)   I.C. 9-20-2-2, “farm vehicles loaded with a farm product”
defined; application of article.
            1.   Section 2(a), as used in this section, states the definition
of FARM VEHICLE LOADED WITH A FARM PRODUCT includes a truck hauling unprocessed
leaf tobacco.
            2.   Section 2(b) states, except for interstate highway travel,
this section does not apply to the following:
               a.   Machinery or equipment used in highway construction or
maintenance by the State Department of Transportation, counties, or
municipalities;
               b.   Implements of agriculture when used during farming
operations or when constructed so that the implements can be moved without
material damage to the highways; and
               c.   Farm drainage machinery.
            3.   Section 2(c) states that this section does not apply to
firefighting apparatus owned or operated by a political subdivision or
volunteer fire department (as defined in I.C. 36-8-12-2).
            4.   Section 2(d) states that, except for interstate highway
travel, this section does not limit the width or height of a farm vehicle
loaded with a farm product.
         (b)   I.C. 9-20-2-1, application of article; exception to size and
weight requirements: notice; permits.
            1.   Section 1(a) states that, except as provided in §§ 1(b) and 1
(c), this section does not apply to a vehicle:
               a.   While engaged in the construction of highways; and
               b.   When the movement of the vehicle is confined wholly to
highways or roads, or sections of highways or roads that are under construction
and not yet open to unlimited public use.
            2.   a.   Section 1(b) states that if the authority having
jurisdiction over the construction of the public highways gives written notice
to the owner or operator of a vehicle that the vehicle may not be operated in
violation of this section without a permit issued by the authority, the owner
or operator must obtain a permit from the authority before the vehicle is
operated within the highway construction area.
            3.   Section 1(c) states that if written notice is given under § 1
(b) and a permit is not obtained by the owner or operator, this section applies
to the owner’s or operator’s vehicle while engaged in the construction of a
public highway.
            4.   Section 1(d) states the written notice that this section
requires from the authority having jurisdiction to the owner or operator may be
in the form of any one of the following documents:
               a.   A letter;
               b.   A specifications document;
               c.   A contract document;
               d.   A written agreement; or
               e.   A written document that pertains to the construction work
being performed by the owner or operator.
         (c)   I.C. 9-13-2-77, implement of agriculture.
            1.   Section 77(1) defines IMPLEMENT OF AGRICULTURE to mean
agricultural implements, pull type and self-propelled, used for the:
               a.   Transport;
               b.   Delivery;
               c.   Application; or
               d.   Harvest of crop inputs, including seed, fertilizers, and
crop protection products.
            2.   Section 77(2) defines IMPLEMENT OF AGRICULTURE to also mean
vehicles that: states the bureau shall determine, by rule under I.C. 4-22-2,
whether a category of implement of agriculture was designed to be operated
primarily:
               a.   Are designed or adapted and used exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations; and
               b.   Are not primarily operated on or moved along a highway.
            3.   Section 77(3) defines IMPLEMENT OF AGRICULTURE to also mean
vehicles that are designed to lift, carry, or transport:
               a.   An agricultural implement described in § 77(1); or
               b.   A vehicle described in § 77(2).
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners shall determine, in its sole discretion,
the county highways and roads, and portions thereof, which shall be closed or
which shall be limited to vehicles not exceeding a total gross vehicle weight
or a gross vehicle weight rating, as determined by the Board of Commissioners,
for each of said county highways and roads, and as designated by the posting of
appropriate signs, as hereinafter provided. The determination of road closings
and limitations may be altered or amended from time to time by the addition or
deletion of roads, or portions thereof, or by the increase or decrease of
weight limits for any of said roads, as shall be determined to be necessary in
the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
      (5)   The County Highway Department is now authorized and directed to
erect and maintain signs designating the provisions of this section at each end
of the portion of any county highway or road affected thereby, and at
intersecting highways or roads.
      (6)   The provisions of division (A)(4) above shall not be effective
until signs designating the closing or weight limits are erected and maintained
at each end of the portion of county highway or road affected thereby, and at
all intersecting county highways or roads.
      (7)   Truck hauling permits shall be issued by the County Highway
Superintendent’s office, in the County Highway Office Complex. Prior to issuing
any truck hauling permit for any vehicle which shall be using a specific county
highway or road, the Highway Superintendent shall follow the procedures adopted
thereto by the Board of Commissioners, including the following requirements:
         (a)   Prior to issuance.
            1.   Prior to the issuance of any truck hauling permit, the County
Highway Superintendent shall review the permit and designate the most
appropriate route over the county roads to be permitted, considering the
following:
               a.   The place of origin and destination of each load;
               b.   The condition and load limits of various county roadways
which provide access;
               c.   The loads to be carried on the permitted roads;
               d.   The frequency of the loads; and/or
               e.   The likely damage to, and relative cost to, the county and
the permit applicant of various routes.
            2.   The truck hauling permit shall state which roads the permit is
granted for as designated by the County Highway Superintendent, in accordance
with this section.
         (b)   Safety features. The Board of Commissioners may, in its sole
discretion, require the applicant for a truck hauling permit to construct, at
the intersection of said county road with a state highway or road, such safety
features as ingress and egress lanes, passing blisters, and other traffic
control and caution devices as it deems appropriate for the public health,
safety, and welfare, upon the advice of the County Highway Superintendent, and
appropriate State Department of Transportation (INDOT) officials, and in
reliance upon the Indiana Department of Highways Driveway Permit Handbook
issued pursuant to 105 I.A.C. § 7.
         (c)   Indemnification of the county. The applicant shall agree to hold
the county, said County Board of Commissioners, and all county employees
harmless and agree to indemnify the county, said Board, and/or their employees
against any and all claims, actions at law or equity, litigation expenses,
judgments, and verdicts that should arise out of said applicant’s use of the
roadway, or out of the use, by any person, firm, or corporation, of the roadway
for purposes associated with said applicant’s activities. Should any judgment
be entered against the county, said Board, and/or its employees as a result of
said use, said applicant shall pay the same. The applicant shall, before
beginning the use of said roadway, file with the County Auditor a certificate
of insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state,
showing all peril liability insurance in a minimum of $500,000 and naming the
county and the County Board of Commissioners as additional insureds thereon.
         (d)   Bond.
            1.   The applicant for a truck hauling permit shall post with the
County Auditor cash and surety bonds, at least 20% of which shall be a cash
bond in a form approved by the Board of Commissioners, said bond equaling
$200,000 per mile for each mile of surfaced blacktop road to be used, $75,000
per mile for each mile of chip and seal road to be used, and $50,000 per mile
for each mile of gravel road to be used by said applicant. Said bonds shall
insure, and save harmless, the county from maintenance of, damage to, and
repairs to said road while said bonds are in effect.
            2.   For a five-day or one-day hauling duration, the Board of
Commissioners may, in its sole discretion, waive any cash bonding requirements
thereon after inspection and approval by an authorized representative of the
Board of Commissioners.
            3.   Said cash bond may be invested, at the discretion of the
individual, partnership, or company filing said bond, in a local depository of
public funds in a savings account or certificate of deposit in the name of the
County Board of Commissioners, with interest earned thereon, to be credited to
said individual, partnership, or company, or in the name of said individual,
partnership, or company with a full assignment of said savings account or
certificate of deposit to the County Board of Commissioners, with interest
earned thereon, to be credited to said individual, partnership, or company. The
County Board of Commissioners shall withdraw from said cash bond for the
purposes of maintaining and repairing roads for which the bond was filed under
the following procedure.
               a.   When the County Highway Superintendent finds that a
specified county road, for which a truck hauling permit has been issued, is in
need of repair or maintenance, the Superintendent shall give three days notice
by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personal delivery, to said
permittee to repair or maintain said road to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. If the needed maintenance or repair is not done within three
days of delivery of the notice, the Superintendent shall make the necessary
repairs or provide the needed maintenance. After the maintenance or repair work
is completed, said permittee and the County Auditor shall be notified by the
Superintendent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personal
delivery, of the amount expended for such maintenance and repair, which amount
shall be paid by said permittee to the County Auditor within seven days. If
said amount is not paid by said permittee within said time, the County Board of
Commissioners shall withdraw said amount from the cash bond and notify said
permittee of the withdrawal.
               b.   Within ten days of delivery of that notification, a cash
payment equal to said amount must be deposited by said permittee with the
County Auditor, or the County Board of Commissioners may order that said permit
be revoked until such a time as said cash payment is made. The procedure
hereinabove set forth shall in no way be construed to limit in time or in order
any or all other remedies available to the County Board of Commissioners,
including, but not limited to, declaring cash and surety bonds breached,
enforcing their rights under said surety bond, requiring the permittee to pay
the expenses, costs, and attorney’s fees incurred by the Board in enforcing
said section, and immediately terminating said permit.
            4.   Each bond posted in accordance with this section shall remain
posted throughout the entire period during which the applicant is using the
bonded roads with the heavy trucks or equipment. In order to ensure that
repairs of hidden damage to the road are reimbursed by the permit holder after
the heavy use project is finished, the bonds shall continue to be held by the
county for a six-month period after the applicant is no longer utilizing the
bonded roads for its heavy trucks or equipment. The bond may be released
earlier by the Commissioners if all repairs of damages are completed before the
expiration of the six-month period to the satisfaction of the county.
      (8)   No truck hauling permits shall be issued to any individual,
partnership, or corporation owing delinquent real or personal property taxes to
the county until such delinquency has been paid in full.
      (9)   Law enforcement personnel, owners, and operators of vehicles shall
have the same rights upon violation of this section, as set forth in I.C. 9-20-
17 and I.C. 9-20-18.
   (B)   Ten-ton weight limit. It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause to be
operated, any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, having a weight in excess of
ten tons on any county road besides those specifically enumerated in division
(C), excepting vehicles operating for an individual or company which has posted
a road bond.
   (C)   Fulda Shortcut Road weight limit. It shall be unlawful to operate, or
cause to be operated, any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, having a weight
in excess of a 20,000 gross vehicle weight rating on the road commonly known as
the Fulda Shortcut Road, excepting vehicles operating for an individual or
company which has posted a road bond.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 2-13-1984; Ord. 2008-04, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2018-10,
passed 10-2-2018; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-2-
2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 MAXIMUM LOAD LIMITS FOR BRIDGES.
   (A)   The county shall contract with the state for the making, constructing,
and erecting of load limit signs for all bridges with a maximum load limit of
less than 15 tons shown on such report of AECON, Inc., as revised and presented
to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The maximum load limits for all of such bridges, as shown upon said
report, be, and the same are, hereby adopted by the Commissioners and made the
absolute maximum load limits for each of such respective reports. Such report,
as revised, is so adopted and incorporated by reference herein, and made a part
hereof. A copy of such report is on file with the County Auditor, and is
available for inspection during regular court house hours.
(Ord. 84-8, passed 10-22-1984)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon judgment of violation of §
70.15(A), any such person found to have violated §
70.15(A) for the first time shall be fined in an amount no less than $100 and
not more than $1,000; for any second or subsequent violation of §
70.15(A), any such person shall be fined in an amount no less than $1,000 and
no more than $7,500. Each day of violation of §
70.15(A) shall constitute a separate violation. In addition, any such person
shall be ordered to pay restitution for any damages, loss, expenses, costs, and
attorney’s fees resulting from violation of §
70.15(A).
   (C)   Any person who violates §
70.15(B) through (C) shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall take, remove, knock down or pull down,
damage, destroy, in whole or in part, deface, paint over, or obscure the
lettering and numbers upon any such sign, as described in §
70.16, or any person who shall attempt to take, remove, knock down or pull
down, damage, destroy, deface, paint over, or obscure the lettering and numbers
upon any such sign shall be guilty of the violation of a Class B misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be imprisoned for a term of not more than 180 days,
and, in addition, may be fined not more than $1,000.
      (2)   It is a defense, under division (D)(1) above, that the person who
commits a violation of division (D)(1) above shall:
         (a)   Report said violation of division (D)(1) above to the Sheriff’s
Department within 24 hours of said violation by giving his or her name, home
address, and telephone number to said Sheriff;
         (b)   Report the violation of division (D)(1) above to the Highway
Department within 72 hours of such damage by giving his or her name, home
address, and telephone number to said Department; and
         (c)   Pay the costs of repair and/or replacement of such sign, as
determined by the County Highway Superintendent, within 14 days of being
notified, in writing, of such cost of replacement. The 14-day time period shall
begin to run on the day after such notification of costs has been served upon
him or her, either personally or by certified mail.
      (3)   Any person who shall cross any such posted bridge with a total
gross tonnage in excess of the maximum load limit so posted shall be guilty of
the violation of a Class B misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned for a fixed
term of not more than 180 days, and in addition he or she may be fined not more
than $1,000.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 2-13-1984; Ord. 84-8, passed 10-22-1984; Ord. 2008-04,
passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Operation of off-road vehicles on county highways
   
71.02   Operation of three- and four-wheeler vehicles by farmers for
agricultural purposes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON COUNTY HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES, as that term is defined under I.C. 14-8-2-185, if
appropriately registered, as required under I.C. 9-18-2.5, and if operated by
an individual who has a valid motor vehicle driver’s license, as required under
I.C. 14-16-1-20(c), may be operated on the public county highways of the county
which are not highways in the State Highway System, and which are not within
the corporate boundaries of any city or town.
   (B)   The off-road vehicle must meet those standards of headlight,
taillight, and brakes required under I.C. 14-16-1-21.
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle must adhere to the restrictions on
operation established under I.C. 14-16-1-23 and the duties in case of accident
established under I.C. 14-16-1-24.
   (D)   Any person operating an off-road vehicle on a county highway shall
have liability insurance specifically for such off-road vehicle in accordance
with the minimum insurance required for the operation of other motor vehicles
on public highways.
   (E)   Any operator of an off-road vehicle shall carry, in his or her
possession, any registration required under I.C. 9-18-2.5 and the certificate
of insurance required under this section for the off-road vehicle being
operated.
   (F)   In furtherance of the restriction established under I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)
(7) prohibiting the operation of off-road vehicles within 100 feet of a
dwelling between midnight and 6:00 a.m., off-road vehicles may not be operated
on county highways between midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (G)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on county highways in such
a manner which causes damage to the highway or disturbs the surface of the
highway. Any violator of this section, in addition to such penalties set forth
in §
71.99(A), shall be responsible for all costs of repair of such damage or
disturbance.
   (H)   Any law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of an off-road
vehicle on a county highway during emergencies.
   (I)   All law enforcement officers in this state shall have the power, and
it shall be their duty, to enforce the provisions of this section, unless
otherwise prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OPERATION OF THREE- AND FOUR-WHEELER VEHICLES BY FARMERS FOR
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby ratify and confirm the provisions of I.C.
14-1-3 for the use of three- and four-wheelers in the county and, pursuant to
the authority for local control of local highways contained therein, hereby
authorize the use of three- and four-wheeler vehicles (excluding snowmobiles)
on county roads and highways outside the corporate limits of incorporated
cities and towns, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Three- and four-wheeler vehicles shall be covered by liability
insurance to the same extent as is required by state law for regular highway
vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall operate a three- or four-wheeler vehicle without a
valid motor vehicle driver’s license.
   (C   A three- or four-wheeler vehicle operated on county roads and highways
shall be used only as a means of transportation by farmers in connection with
their farm operation, or non-farmers engaged in business and/or agricultural-
related activities.
   (D)   Three- or four-wheeler vehicles traveling on county roads and highways
must have lights burning at all times, travel in single file on the right hand
side of the road, and maintain a minimum of 100 feet between vehicles, in
addition to observing the restrictions of I.C. 14-1-3-11 and I.C. 14-1-3-14.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to, in any way, limit or replace any
requirements on the operation of OFF-ROAD VEHICLES (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-
185) provided in I.C. 14-1-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who operates an off-road vehicle in violation of §
71.01 shall be subject to imposition of the same judgment prescribed for a
Class C infraction as set out in I.C. 34-28-5-4, unless such violation is
otherwise designated by a state statute, or a rule or regulation, promulgated
by a state agency or department.
   (B)   Violations of any of §
71.02 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedules
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop and yield signs
   
III.   Railroad crossings
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Street(s), Road(s), or Highway(s) Speed Limit
Street(s), Road(s), or Highway(s)                                             Speed
                                                                              Limit
Base Rd. from Co. Rd. 1350 N to S.R. 62                                       35
                                                                              mph
Base Rd. from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 400 W                                       35
                                                                              mph
Base Rd. from U.S. 231 to the western Rockport city limit                     35
                                                                              mph
Brewery St., in the unincorporated community of St. Meinrad, from Second St.  25
to Sixth St.                                                                  mph
Candy Castle Rd. from S.R. 245 to S.R. 545                                    35
                                                                              mph
Carpenter Ave. from S.R. 45 to Lincoln Ave. (0.141 mile)                      20
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 50 N from S.R. 161 to Co. Rd. 350 W                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 50 W from Co. Rd. 150 S to Co. Rd. 100 S                              35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 100 E from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 1250 N                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 125 E from Co. Rd. 1350 N to the intersection of Co. Rd. 1300 N       30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 125 W from S.R. 62 to Co. Rd. 1350 N                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 150 E from Co. Rd. 1300 N to the intersection of Co. Rd. 1250 N       30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 150 S from Co. Rd. 100 W to Co. Rd. 50 W                              35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 150 S from Co. Rd. 500 W to Co. Rd. 600 W                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 350 N to Co. Rd. 300 N                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 1600 N to S.R. 162                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 E from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 700 N (5,350 feet)                      35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 N from a point 8.25 miles west of U.S. 231 to the intersection of 45
Co. Rd. 900 W (1.73 miles)                                                    mph
Co. Rd. 200 N from U.S. 231 to a point 8.25 miles west                        35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 S from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 850 W                                  40
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 W from a point 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 350 S to Co. Rd. 400 S  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 W from Co. Rd. 350 S to a point 0.25 mile south of Co. Rd. 350 S  25
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 W from S.R. 45 to Co. Rd. 350 S                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 W from S.R. 66 to Base Rd.                                        35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 200 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 200 N                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 225 E from S.R. 68 to U.S. 231                                        30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 275 E from Co. Rd. 1650 N to Co. Rd. 1600 N                           30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 275 W/300 W/325 W (Orchard Rd.) from U.S. 231 to a point 0.50 mile    25
north (0.50 mile)                                                             mph
Co. Rd. 275 W/300 W/325 W (Orchard Rd.) from a point 0.50 mile north of U.S.  35
231 to a point 7.25 miles north of U.S. 231 (6.75 miles)                      mph
Co. Rd. 275 W/300 W/325 W (Orchard Rd.) from a point 7.25 miles north of U.S. 45
231 to a point 10.51 miles north of U.S. 231 (3.26 miles)                     mph
Co. Rd. 300 E from Co. Rd. 1625 N to S.R. 162                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 300 E from two miles south of U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 1625 N              30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 300 E from U.S. 231 to two miles south of U.S. 231                    45
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 300 N from Co. Rd. 200 E to the Grandview city limits                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 300 N from Co. Rd. 900 W to Co. Rd. 1000 W                            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 300 S from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 200 W                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 325 E from Co. Rd. 1600 N to Co. Rd. 1625 N                           30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350                                                                   30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 E from Co. Rd. 400 N to Co. Rd. 350 N                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 E from Co. Rd. 1700 N to Dale city limit                          35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 S from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 200 W                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 W from Co. Rd. 200 S to Co. Rd. 300 S                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 200 N                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 350 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 200 S (also known as Patronville Rd.)   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 390 E from S.R. 162 to Co. Rd. 1700 N                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 400 N from Co. Rd. 900 W to S.R. 161                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 400 N from S.R. 161 to Co. Rd. 900 W                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 400 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 50 S                                    35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 450 W from a point 0.97 mile south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 35
N to a point 1.16 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N (0.19      mph
mile)
Co. Rd. 450 W from a point 1.16 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd.    25
900 N to a point 1.36 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N (0.20  mph
mile)
Co. Rd. 450 W from a point 1.36 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd.    35
900 N to a point 1.87 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N (0.51  mph
mile)
Co. Rd. 450 W from a point 1.87 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd.    45
900 N to a point 4.01 miles south of the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N, being mph
the intersection of Co. Rd. 500 N (2.14 miles)
Co. Rd. 450 W from Co. Rd. 900 N to Co. Rd. 975 N                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 450 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 200 N                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 450 W from the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N to a point 0.97 mile     45
south                                                                         mph
Co. Rd. 450 W from the intersection of Co. Rd. 975 N to a point 0.74 mile     35
south, being the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N and Co. Rd. 450 W              mph
Co. Rd. 475 E from S.R. 162 to Co. Rd. 1300 N                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 475 W from Co. Rd. 975 N to Co. Rd. 1060 N                            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 475 W from the intersection of Co. Rd. 1060 N to a point 0.82 mile    35
south, being the intersection of Co. Rd. 975 N and Co. Rd. 475 W              mph
Co. Rd. 500 E from Co. Rd. 1700 N to S.R. 162                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 500 N from Orchard Rd. to Co. Rd. 450 W                               35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 500 N from U.S. 231 to S.R. 161                                       45
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 500 W from Co. Rd. 50 S to Co. Rd. 200 S                              35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 550 E from Co. Rd. 1675 N to S.R. 245                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 550 E from Co. Rd. 1300 N to Co. Rd. 1350 N                           35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 600 E from a point 0.6 mile north of S.R. 245 to S.R. 62              30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 600 E from S.R. 245 to a point 0.6 mile north of S.R. 245             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 600 E from Co. Rd. 1200 N to Co. Rd. 1475 N                           35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 600 E from S.R. 66 to S.R. 70                                         35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 600 W from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 200 S                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 625 E from S.R. 162 to S.R. 245                                       35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from a point 925 feet south of Co. Rd. 1800 N to the limits of  35
incorporated Town of Santa Claus (0.90 mile)                                  mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from a point 950 feet north of S.R. 62 to the intersection of   35
Co. Rd. 1975 N (0.34 mile)                                                    mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from a point 1,700 feet north of S.R. 62 to the Dubois county   45
line (2.23 miles)                                                             mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from a point 3,300 feet south of S.R. 62 to 925 feet south of   45
Co. Rd. 1800 N (0.875 mile)                                                   mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from S.R. 62 to a point 950 feet north (0.18 mile)              25
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from S.R. 62 to a point 1,700 feet north (0.32 mile)            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from S.R. 62 to a point 3,300 feet south (0.625 mile)           35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 E from the intersection of Co. Rd. 1975 N to the Dubois county    45
line (2.03 miles)                                                             mph
Co. Rd. 700 N from Co. Rd. 200 E to Highland Rd. (3,388 feet)                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 N from Orchard Rd. to U.S. 231                                    45
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 700 W from Co. Rd. 200 S to River Rd.                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 750 N from Co. Rd. 200 E to U.S. 231 (5,289 feet)                     35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 750 N from Co. Rd. 450 W to Orchard Rd.                               35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 750 N from Old State Rd. to U.S. 231                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 785 N from S.R. 161 to Co. Rd. 450 W                                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 800 E from S.R. 70 to S.R. 66                                         35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 800 W from Old S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 400 N                               35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 850 W from Co. Rd. 200 S to S.R. 66                                   35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 850 W from Old S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 150 N                               35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 900 N from a point 0.50 mile west of J.B. Chrisney Rd. to Co. Rd. 450 45
W                                                                             mph
Co. Rd. 900 N from the Chrisney town limits to Co. Rd. 175 E                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 900 N from J.B. Chrisney Rd. to a point 0.50 mile west of J.B.        35
Chrisney Rd.                                                                  mph
Co. Rd. 900 W from River Rd. to Co. Rd. 200 S                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 900 W from S.R. 66 to one mile north of S.R. 66                       25
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 900 W from one mile north of S.R. 66 to the Warrick county line       40
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 950 E from S.R. 162 to S.R. 62                                        35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 950 N from S.R. 545 to the Perry county line                          35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 975 N from Co. Rd. 450 W to Co. Rd. 475 W                             35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 975 N from the intersection of Co. Rd. 475 W to a point 0.31 mile     35
east, being the intersection of Co. Rd. 450 W and Co. Rd. 975 N               mph
Co. Rd. 1000 N from Old State Rd. to S.R. 245                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1050 N from McDonald Ave. to Co. Rd. 1200 E                           35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1050 N from Stones Ln. to Co. Rd. 1200 E                              25
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1060 N from Co. Rd. 475 W to the Warrick county line                  35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1060 N from the Warrick county line to a point 0.65 mile east, being  35
the intersection of Co. Rd. 1060 N and Co. Rd. 475 W (0.65 mile)              mph
Co. Rd. 1100 E from Candy Castle Rd. to St. Peter’s Church Rd.              35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1100 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to S.R. 245                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1100 N from S.R. 245 to St. Peter’s Church Rd.                      45
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1160 N from Co. Rd. 1200 E to S.R. 545                                35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1200 E from Co. Rd. 1050 N to Co. Rd. 1160 N                          35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1200 N from Co. Rd. 1250 N to St. Peter’s Church Rd.                35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1250 N from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 1200 N                                35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1300 N from Co. Rd. 125 E to the intersection of Co. Rd. 150 E        30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1300 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to Co. Rd. 550 E                            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1300 N from S.R. 245 to S.R. 545                                      35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1350 N from Co. Rd. 125 W to U.S. 231                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1350 N from Co. Rd. 475 E to Co. Rd. 600 E                            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1350 N from U.S. 231 to the intersection of Co. Rd. 125 E             30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1360 E from a point 0.34 mile south of the Dubois county line to a    35
point 0.62 mile south of the Dubois county line (0.28 mile)                   mph
Co. Rd. 1360 E from a point 0.62 mile south of the Dubois county line to a    45
point 0.91 mile south of the Dubois county line (0.29 mile)                   mph
Co. Rd. 1360 E from a point 0.91 mile south of the Dubois county line to a    35
point 1.59 miles south of the Dubois county line, being the intersection of   mph
Co. Rd. 1360 E and S.R. 62 (0.68 mile)
Co. Rd. 1360 E from the Dubois county line to a point 0.34 mile south (0.34   45
mile)                                                                         mph
Co. Rd. 1400 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to S.R. 245                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1400 N from St. Peter’s Church Rd. to S.R. 545                      35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1450 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to Co. Rd. 475 E                            30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1475 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to the Santa Claus town limit               35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1550 N from Co. Rd. 1300 E to S.R. 545                                30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1600 N from Co. Rd. 275 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                            30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1600 N from Co. Rd. 300 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                            35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1600 N from Fulda Shortcut to S.R. 162                                35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1600 N from S.R. 162 to Co. Rd. 325 E                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1625 N from Co. Rd. 325 E to Co. Rd. 300 E                            30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1650 N from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 275 E                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1675 N from S.R. 245 to Co. Rd. 550 E                                 35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1700 N from Co. Rd. 300 E to Co. Rd. 550 E                            30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1850 N from Co. Rd. 225 E to S.R. 62 (3,115 feet)                     35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1900 N from the Dale city limit to Co. Rd. 225 E                      35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 1975 N from Co. Rd. 700 E to S.R. 162                                 30
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 2000 N from U.S. 231 to S.R. 68                                       35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 2100 N from Co. Rd. 500 E to the Dale city limit                      35
                                                                              mph
Co. Rd. 2100 N from S.R. 162 to Co. Rd. 875 E                                 35
                                                                              mph
Country Ridge Estates Subdivision, including Country Ln., Meadowland Dr.,     25
Greenfield Ct., Fairview Ct., and Fairview Dr.                                mph
Eureka Rd. (Co. Rd. 50 S) from U.S. 231 to Co. Rd. 850 W                      35
                                                                              mph
Eureka Rd. from the Rockport city limit to Co. Rd. 850 W                      35
                                                                              mph
Fulda Shortcut from S.R. 545 to S.R. 62                                       35
                                                                              mph
Grissom Ave. from S.R. 45 to Hart St. (0.455 mile)                            20
                                                                              mph
Hart St. from Grissom Ave. to its end (0.063 mile)                            20
                                                                              mph
Highland Rd. from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 400 N                                    35
                                                                              mph
Highland Rd. from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 700 N (1.23 miles)                       25
                                                                              mph
Huffman Mill Rd. from S.R. 545 to Perry county line                           35
                                                                              mph
Kennedy St. from Lincoln Ave. to Rimstidt St.                                 15
                                                                              mph
Lincoln Ave. from Carpenter Ave. to Grissom Ave. (0.059 mile)                 20
                                                                              mph
McDonald Ave. from Co. Rd. 1050 N to 0.31 mile north of Co. Rd. 1050 N        35
                                                                              mph
Monte Cassino Rd. from S.R. 62 to the Dubois county line                      35
                                                                              mph
Old Lamar Highway from Co. Rd. 1100 N to S.R. 70                              35
                                                                              mph
Old State Rd. from Co. Rd. 900 N to S.R. 62                                   35
                                                                              mph
Old State Rd. from Silverdale Rd. to Co. Rd. 500 N                            35
                                                                              mph
Short Johnnytown Rd. from S.R. 62 to S.R. 545                                 30
                                                                              mph
Silverdale Rd. from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 500 N                                  35
                                                                              mph
St. Peter’s Church Rd. from 0.31 mile north of Co. Rd. 1050 N to 3.75 miles 35
north of Co. Rd. 1050 N                                                       mph
St. Peter’s Church Rd. from 3.75 miles north of Co. Rd. 1050 N to S.R. 245  45
                                                                              mph
St. Peter’s Church Rd. from Co. Rd. 1100 N to Stones Ln.                    25
                                                                              mph
Stones Ln. from Old Lamar Highway to Co. Rd. 1050 N                           35
                                                                              mph
River Rd. from the Warrick county line to Co. Rd. 300 S at the northeast      20
corner of Section 10, Township 8 south, Range 6 west (18.8 miles)             mph
 
(Ord. 85-8, passed 12-2-1985; Ord. 1996-13, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 1996-17,
passed 11-19-1996; Ord. 16, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 17, passed 11-17-1998; Ord.
18, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 1998-21, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. 1999-07, passed 4-
20-1999; Ord. 1999-16, passed 11-1-1999; Ord. 2000-7, passed 7-3-2000; Ord.
2000-8, passed 7-3-2000; Ord. 2000-9, passed 8-15-2000; Ord. 2000-10, passed 8-
15-2000; Ord. 2000-11, passed 8-15-2000; Ord. 2000-12, passed 8-15-2000; Ord.
2000-14, passed 10-17-2000; Ord. 2000-15, passed 10-17-2000; Ord. 2000-19,
passed 12-19-2000; Ord. 2000-18, passed 12-19-2000; Ord. 2000-20, passed 12-19-
2000; Ord. 2001-8, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 2001-09, passed 4-21-2001; Ord. 2002-
09, passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 2002-11, passed 7-15-2002; Ord. 2002-12, passed 8-5-
2002; Ord. 2005-07, passed 11-15-2005; Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-22-2006; Ord.
2008-07, passed 5-20-2008; Ord. 2008-11, passed 8-5-2008; Ord. 2010-07, passed
4-19-2010; Ord. 2010-08, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 2015-06, passed 7-7-2015)
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Luce and Ohio townships (District 1).
Intersection Type of Sign Exception(s)
Intersection                     Type of Sign Exception(s)
Co. Rd. 1071 N from Co. Rd. 350               Traffic shall not be required to
W to Co. Rd. 340 W               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1071 N and Co. Rd. 340 W
Co. Rd. 1175 N from Co. Rd. 350               Traffic shall not be required to
W to Co. Rd. 340 W               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1175 N and Co. Rd. 340 W
Amherst St. from the dead end    Stop         Traffic on Chopline Dr. shall
north to the dead end south                   stop for traffic on Amherst St.
Apollo Dr. from Rebel Square E   Stop         -
to Rebel Square W
                                              Intersecting traffic shall not be
                                              required to stop at the
Barnett St. from Cherry St. to   Stop         intersection of Cherry St. and
Main St.                                      Barnett St.; traffic on Barnett
                                              St. shall stop for traffic on
                                              Main St.
Base Rd. W from Co. Rd. 800 W to Stop         -
Co. Rd. 875 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Base Rd. W;
Base Rd. W from the corporate                 all traffic shall stop at the
limits of Rockport to the curve  Stop         intersection of Base Rd. W and
at Co. Rd. 875 W                              Co. Rd. 400 W; all traffic shall
                                              stop at the intersection of Base
                                              Rd. W and Co. Rd. 500 W
                                              Traffic on Baste St. shall not be
Baste St. from Base Rd. N to     Stop         required to stop at the
Payne Ave.                                    intersection of Baste St. and
                                              Payne Ave.
Becky Dr. from the dead end      Stop         -
north to the dead end south
Bennett St. from Barnett St. to  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 110 N shall
S.R. 66                                       stop for traffic on Bennett St.
Boner Bridge on to Co. Rd. 1000  Stop         -
W at the Warrick county line
Carpenter Ave. from S.R. 45 to                Traffic shall not be required to
Lincoln Ave.                     Stop         stop at the intersection of
                                              Carpenter Ave. and Lincoln Ave.
Cherry St. from Middleton St. to Stop         -
Co. Rd. 110 N
Chestnut St. from Lincoln St. to              Traffic shall not be required to
Adams St.                        Stop         stop at the intersection of
                                              Chestnut St. and Lincoln St.
Chopline Dr. from Hubbard Dr. to Stop         -
the dead end
Chopline Dr. from the dead end   Stop         -
to Amherst St.
Chris Dr. from the dead end      Stop         -
north to the dead end south
Co. Rd. 19 W from the corporate
limits of Rockport to Co. Rd.    Stop         -
100 S
                                              West bound traffic shall not be
Co. Rd. 25 N/50 N from Co. Rd.   Stop         required to stop at the
200 W to Co. Rd. 350 W                        intersection of Co. Rd. 50 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 275 W
Co. Rd. 40 S from Co. Rd. 840 W               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 850 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 40 S and Co. Rd. 840 W
Co. Rd. 50 N from Co. Rd. 900 W               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 950 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 50 N and Co. Rd. 950 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 50 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 50 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 600
Co. Rd. 50 S from the corporate               W; all traffic shall stop at the
limits of Rockport to the curve  Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 50 S in
at Co. Rd. 950 W                              the unincorporated Town of
                                              Eureka; traffic shall not be
                                              required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 950 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 50 S
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 50 shall stop
Co. Rd. 50 W from S.R. 45 to Co.              for traffic on S.R. 45; north
Rd. 300 S                        Stop         bound traffic on Co. Rd. 50 W
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              200 S
Co. Rd. 55 N from Co. Rd. 875 W               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 900 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 55 N and Co. Rd. 875 W
Co. Rd. 57 N from Co. Rd. 875 W  Stop         -
to the end
Co. Rd. 60 N from Co. Rd. 875 W  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 900 W
Co. Rd. 65 N from Co. Rd. 875 W  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 900 W
Co. Rd. 70 N from Co. Rd. 875 W  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 900 W
Co. Rd. 70 N from the dead end   Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 950 W
Co. Rd. 75 E from Co. Rd. 400 N  Stop         -
to U.S. 231
Co. Rd. 75 N from the dead end   Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 925 W shall
to Co. Rd. 950 W                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 75 N
Co. Rd. 75 N from the dead end   Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1000 W
Co. Rd. 75 W from River Rd. to   Stop         -
Co. Rd. 100 W
Co. Rd. 80 N from Co. Rd. 875 W               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 900 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 80 N and Co. Rd. 875 W
Co. Rd. 85 N from the dead end   Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 900 W
Co. Rd. 100 N from Co. Rd. 1000  Stop         -
W to the Warrick county line
                                              East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 100
Co. Rd. 100 N from Old S.R. 66                N shall stop for traffic on Old
to the dead end west of Co. Rd.  Stop         S.R. 66; traffic on Co. Rd. 100 N
950 W                                         shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              950 W; traffic on Co. Rd. 100 N
                                              shall stop traffic Co. Rd. 900 W
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 100 S and
Co. Rd. 100 S from the corporate              Co. Rd. 100 W; traffic on Co. Rd.
limits of Rockport to Co. Rd.    Stop         100 S shall stop for traffic on
350 W                                         Co. Rd. 350 W; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              100 S shall stop for traffic on
                                              Joe Harlan Rd.
Co. Rd. 100 W from Co. Rd. 50 S               Traffic on Co. Rd. 100 W is not
to Co. Rd. 250 S                 Stop         required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 250 S
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 100 W from Co. Rd. 325 S              stop at the intersection of Co.
to River Rd.                     Stop         Rd. 100 W and Co. Rd. 325 S;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 100 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on River Rd.
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 110 N shall
Co. Rd. 110 N from Maple St. to  Stop         stop for traffic on Bennett St.;
the dead end                                  traffic on Co. Rd. 110 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Main St.
Co. Rd. 125 N from Co. Rd. 975 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1000 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 280 W shall
Co. Rd. 150 N from Co. Rd. 275 W              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 150
to Co. Rd. 300 W                 Stop         N; traffic shall not be required
                                              to stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 150 N and Co. Rd. 300 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N shall
                                              not stop at the intersection of
Co. Rd. 150 N from Co. Rd. 750 W Stop         Co. Rd. 150 N and Co. Rd. 850 W;
to Co. Rd. 975 W                              traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N shall
                                              not stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 150 N and Co. Rd. 950 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N shall
Co. Rd. 150 N from Orchard Rd.   Stop         stop for traffic on Orchard Rd.;
to Co. Rd. 300 W                              traffic on Co. Rd. 280 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N
Co. Rd. 150 S from Co. Rd. 50 W               South bound traffic on Co. Rd.
to River Rd.                     Stop         500 W and traffic on 150 S shall
                                              stop at that intersection
Co. Rd. 160 N from Co. Rd. 975 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1000 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd.200 W shall
Co. Rd. 150 W/240 W              Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 150
                                              W/240 W
Co. Rd. 150 W from Co. Rd. 300 N              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 250 N                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 150 W and Co. Rd. 250 N
Co. Rd. 160 N from Co. Rd. 975 W Stop         -
to S.R. 66
Co. Rd. 170 N from Co. Rd. 280 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 300 W
Co. Rd. 175 W from Co. Rd. 300 S              All traffic shall stop at the
to Co. Rd. 400 S                 Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 175 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 400 S
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Silverdale
                                              Rd.; all traffic shall stop at
                                              the intersection of Co. Rd. 200 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 350 W; all traffic
Co. Rd. 200 N from U.S. 231 to                shall stop at the intersection of
Co. Rd. 975 W                    Stop         Co. Rd. 200 N and Co. Rd. 450 W;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 161;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 900
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 975 W
Co. Rd. 200 S from S.R. 45 to    Stop         -
Co. Rd. 25 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 S shall
Co. Rd. 200 S from U.S. 231 to                stop for traffic on U.S. 231; all
Co. Rd. 850 W                    Stop         traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 200 S and
                                              Co. Rd. 850 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500
                                              N; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200
                                              N; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 West
                                              shall stop for traffic on U.S.
                                              231; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W
Co. Rd. 200 W from Co. Rd. 560 N              shall stop for traffic on Base
to Co. Rd. 500 S                 Stop         Rd. W; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              50 S; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              100 S; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W
                                              shall stop for traffic on S.R.
                                              45; traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              500 S
Co. Rd. 250 N from Co. Rd. 100 W              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 150 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 250 N and Co. Rd. 150 W
                                              East bound traffic shall not be
                                              required to stop at the
Co. Rd. 250 N from Co. Rd. 975 W              intersection of Co. Rd. 250 N and
to Co. Rd. 1050 W                Stop         Co. Rd. 990 W; traffic shall not
                                              be required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 250 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 1050 W
Co. Rd. 250 N from U.S. 231 to   Stop         -
Base Rd. N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 250 S shall
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 250 S and Co. Rd. 125 W; east
Co. Rd. 250 S from Co. Rd. 100 W              bound traffic on Co. Rd. 250 S
to Co. Rd. 200 W                 Stop         shall stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 250 S and Co. Rd. 125 W;
                                              traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 250 S and Co. Rd. 100 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 775 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 250
                                              W/225 W; all traffic shall stop
Co. Rd. 250 W/225 W              Stop         at the intersection of Co. Rd.
                                              225 W and Co. Rd. 950 N; traffic
                                              is not required to stop at the
                                              intersection on Co. Rd. 225 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 1050 N
Co. Rd. 250 W from Co. Rd. 600 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 275 W from Co. Rd. 700 N Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 275 W shall
to Co. Rd. 775 N                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 280 W from Co. Rd. 170 N              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 150 N                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 280 W and Co. Rd. 170 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 300 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 100
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 300 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200
                                              W; all traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 300 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 300 W; traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 300 N from Co. Rd. 100 W Stop         300 N shall stop for traffic on
to Co. Rd. 1050 W                             S.R. 161; traffic on Co. Rd. 300
                                              N shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 900 W; traffic on Co. Rd. 300
                                              N shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 990 W; traffic shall not be
                                              required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 300 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 1050 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 300 S/275 S
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              50 W; west bound traffic on Co.
Co. Rd. 300 S/275 S from Base                 Rd. 275 S shall stop for traffic
Rd. N to Co. Rd. 500 W           Stop         on Co. Rd. 125 W; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 300 S shall stop for traffic
                                              on U.S. 231; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              300 S shall stop for traffic on
                                              Co. Rd. 500 W
Co. Rd. 300 W from Co. Rd. 170 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 150 N
Co. Rd. 300 W from River Rd. to  Stop         -
U.S. 231
Co. Rd. 325 W from Co. Rd. 425 N Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 325 W shall
to Co. Rd. 350 N                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 425 N
                                              Traffic on Base Rd. N shall stop
Co. Rd. 350 N from Co. Rd. 200 E Stop         for traffic on Co. Rd. 350 N;
to Old State Rd.                              traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 350 N
Co. Rd. 350 N from Co. Rd. 200 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 300 W
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 350 N from Co. Rd. 325 W              Rd. 325 W and Co. Rd. 350 N;
to Co. Rd. 400 W                 Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 390 W shall
                                              stop for traffic at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 350 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 400 W
                                              West bound traffic on Co. Rd. 350
                                              N shall stop for traffic on Co.
Co. Rd. 350 W from Co. Rd. 350 N              Rd. 350 W; traffic on Co. Rd. 350
to Co. Rd. 300 S                 Stop         W shall not required to stop for
                                              east bound traffic on Co. Rd. 350
                                              N; traffic on West Base Rd. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 350 W
Co. Rd. 350 S from Co. Rd. 200 W Stop         -
to the end
Co. Rd. 375 N from Co. Rd. 300 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 325 W
Co. Rd. 375 N from Co. Rd. 900 W              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 1000 N                Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 375 N and Co. Rd. 1000 W
Co. Rd. 375 S/400 S from Co. Rd.              All traffic shall stop at the
100 W to Co. Rd. 200 W           Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 400 S and
                                              Co. Rd. 175 W
Co. Rd. 385 N from Harrison St.               Traffic shall not be required to
to Main St.                      Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 385 N and Harrison St.
Co. Rd. 390 W from Co. Rd. 350 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 300 N
Co. Rd. 392 N from Harrison St.  Stop         -
to Main St.
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 400 N from Co. Rd. 400 W              Rd. 400 N and Co. Rd. 400 W;
to Co. Rd. 900 W                 Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 400 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 161;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 400 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 900 W
Co. Rd. 400 N from U.S. 231 to   Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 75 E shall
Old State Rd.                                 stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400 N
Co. Rd. 400 W from Co. Rd. 400 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 350 N
Co. Rd. 400 W from S.R. 66 to                 All traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 300 S                    Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 400 W and
                                              Base Rd. W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 425 S/440 S
                                              shall stop for traffic on U.S.
Co. Rd. 425 S/440 S from Co. Rd.              231; traffic on Co. Rd. 425 S
200 W to River Rd.               Stop         shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              200 W; traffic on Co. Rd. 425 S/
                                              440 S shall stop for traffic on
                                              River Rd.
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 425 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Orchard Rd.;
Co. Rd. 450 N/Co. Rd. 425 N from              all traffic shall stop at the
Orchard Rd. to S.R. 161          Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 425 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 450 W; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              450 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              S.R. 161
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 450 W from Co. Rd. 500 N              intersection of Co. Rd. 450 W and
to S.R. 66                       Stop         Co. Rd. 425 N; all traffic shall
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 450 W and Co. Rd. 200 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200
                                              E; traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 500 N from Co. Rd. 200 E Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 500 N and
to Co. Rd. 875 W                              Orchard Rd.; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              500 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              S.R. 161; traffic shall not be
                                              required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 500 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 875 W
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 500 W and
                                              Base Rd. W; all traffic shall
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 500 W from Co. Rd. 200 N Stop         Rd. 500 W and Co. Rd. 150 S;
to Co. Rd. 300 S                              traffic on Co. Rd. 300 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500
                                              W; east bound traffic on River
                                              Rd. shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 500 W
Co. Rd. 500 S from Co. Rd. 100 W Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W shall
to U.S. 231                                   stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500 S
Co. Rd. 525 N from Co. Rd. 875 W              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 900 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 500 N and Co. Rd. 875 W
Co. Rd. 550 N from Co. Rd. 750 W Stop         -
and Co. Rd. 900 W
                                              South bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              550 W shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400
Co. Rd. 550 W from the dead end               N; north bound traffic on Co. Rd.
to Co. Rd. 200 N                 Stop         550 W shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 450
                                              N; south bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              550 W shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N
Co. Rd. 560 W from Lincoln St.                Traffic shall not be required to
to Adams St.                     Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 560 W and Lincoln St.
Co. Rd. 560 S from U.S. 231 to   Stop         -
River Rd.
Co. Rd. 572 W from Lincoln St.   Stop         -
to Adams St.
Co. Rd. 575 W from S.R. 66 to    Stop         -
the dead end
Co. Rd. 585 W from Division St.               Traffic shall not be required to
to Adams St.                     Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 585 W and Division St.
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N shall
Co. Rd. 600 N from Co. Rd. 500 W Stop         stop for traffic on S.R. 161;
to Co. Rd. 900 W                              traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 900 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 600 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200
Co. Rd. 600 W from S.R. 66 to    Stop         S; traffic on Co. Rd. 600 W shall
River Rd.                                     stop for traffic on River Rd.;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 600 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 66
Co. Rd. 625 N from Co. Rd. 750 W              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 800 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 625 N and Co. Rd. 800 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 650 N shall
Co. Rd. 650 N from Co. Rd. 500 W              stop for traffic on S.R. 161;
to Co. Rd. 750 W                 Stop         traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 650 N and Co. Rd. 750 W
Co. Rd. 650 W from Co. Rd. 400 N Stop         -
to S.R. 66
Co. Rd. 675 W from Co. Rd. 50 S  Stop         -
to the dead end
Co. Rd. 675 W from Co. Rd. 600 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 400 N
Co. Rd. 700 N from Co. Rd. 500 W Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 525 W shall
to Co. Rd. 700 W                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall
Co. Rd. 700 W from Co. Rd. 700 N Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700
to River Rd.                                  W; traffic on Co. Rd. 150 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 150 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 750
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 625 N shall
Co. Rd. 750 W from Co. Rd. 650 N Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 750
to River Rd.                                  W; traffic on Co. Rd. 550 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 750
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 750 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 800
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N shall
Co. Rd. 800 W from Co. Rd. 500 N Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 800
to River Rd.                                  W; traffic on Base Rd. W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 800
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 150 S shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 800 W
Co. Rd. 800 W from Co. Rd. 625 N              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 600 N                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 800 W and Co. Rd. 625 N
Co. Rd. 840 W from Co. Rd. 40 S               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 50 S                  Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 840 W and Co. Rd. 40 S
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 50 S and
                                              Co. Rd. 50 S; all traffic shall
Co. Rd. 850 W from Base Rd. W to Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
River Rd.                                     Rd. 850 W and Co. Rd. 200 S; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 850 W and
                                              River Rd.
Co. Rd. 850 W from Co. Rd. 500 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 300 N
Co. Rd. 860 W from Parker St. to Stop         -
the dead end
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 875 W from Co. Rd. 80 N  Stop         Rd. 875 W and Co. Rd. 80 N;
to Co. Rd. 55 N                               traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 875 W and Co. Rd. 55 N
                                              Traffic on Main St. shall stop
                                              for traffic on Old S.R. 66;
Co. Rd. 900 W (Main St.) from                 traffic on Co. Rd. 900 W shall
the Warrick county line to Base  Stop         stop for traffic on S.R. 66;
Rd. W                                         traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 900 W and Base Rd. W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 950 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Old S.R. 66;
Co. Rd. 950 W from Old S.R. 66                traffic on Co. Rd. 950 W shall
to Co. Rd. 50 N                  Stop         stop for traffic on S.R. 66;
                                              traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 950 W and Co. Rd. 50 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 975 W shall
Co. Rd. 975 W from S.R. 66 to    Stop         stop for traffic on S.R. 66;
dead end                                      traffic on Co. Rd. 975 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 300 N
Co. Rd. 984 W from Co. Rd. 125 N Stop         -
to dead end
Co. Rd. 990 W from Co. Rd. 250 N Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 300 N shall
to Co. Rd. 360 N                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 990 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 W shall
Co. Rd. 1000 W/Co. Rd. 1040 W    Stop         stop for traffic on Old S.R. 66;
Old S.R. 66 to River Rd.                      traffic on Co. Rd. 1040 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on River Rd.
Division St. from Co. Rd. 585 W  Stop         Traffic on Elm St. shall stop for
to Walnut St.                                 traffic on Division St.
East Reo Dr. from Rebel Square E Stop         -
to U.S Hwy. 231
East St. from Co. Rd. 40 S to    Stop         -
Co. Rd. 50 S
East St. from Roth St. to Parker              Traffic shall not be required to
St.                              Stop         stop at the intersection of Roth
                                              St. and Bast St.
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Elm St. from Fifth St. to                     stop at the intersection of Elm
Division St.                     Stop         St. and Fifth St.; traffic on
                                              Fourth St. shall stop for traffic
                                              on Elm St.
Elm St. from Lincoln St. to      Stop         -
Adams St.
                                              Traffic on Ely Rd. shall stop for
Ely Rd. from Co. Rd. 150 N to    Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 150 N; traffic
S.R. 66                                       on Ely Rd. shall stop for traffic
                                              on S.R. 66
Ferguson Circle from Jolly Ln.   Stop         -
to dead end
Fifth St. from Harrison St. to                Traffic shall not be required to
Elm St.                          Stop         stop at the intersection of Fifth
                                              St. and Elm St.
                                              Traffic on Elm St. shall stop for
First St. from Harrison St. to   Stop         traffic on Division St.; traffic
Maple St.                                     on Walnut St. shall stop for
                                              traffic on Division St.
Fourth St. from Harrison St. to  Stop         -
Elm St.
Green Acres from Parker St. to   Stop         -
the dead end
                                              Traffic on Lincoln Ave. shall
Grissom Ave. from S.R. 45 to     Stop         stop for traffic on Grissom Ave.;
Hart Ave.                                     traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Hart Ave.
Grizzly Ave. from the dead end   Stop         -
(east side) to Yogi St.
                                              Traffic on Harrison St. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 450
                                              N; traffic on Harrison St. shall
Harrison St. from Co. Rd. 450 N               stop for traffic on Lincoln St.;
to Co. Rd. 385 N                 Stop         traffic on Harrison St. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Adams St.;
                                              traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of
                                              Harrison St. and Co. Rd. 385 N
Hodges Dr. from Main St. (S.R.   Stop         Traffic on Jolly Ln. shall stop
161) back to Main St. (S.R. 161)              for traffic on Co. Rd. 360 N
Hubbard Dr. from the dead end to Stop         Traffic on Chopline Dr. shall
Co. Rd. 300 S                                 stop for traffic on Hubbard Dr.
Irwin Dr. from Short Sixth St.   Stop         -
to Short Seventh St.
                                              East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 100
                                              S shall stop for traffic on Joe
Joe Harlan Rd. from Co. Rd. 100  Stop         Harlan Rd.; traffic on Joe Harlan
S to Co. Rd. 100 W                            Rd. shall not be required to stop
                                              at its intersection of Co. Rd.
                                              100 S
Joe Harlan Rd. on Co. Rd. 100 W  Stop         -
Johnson St. from the dead end to Stop         Traffic on Johnson St. shall stop
Co. Rd. 110 N                                 for traffic on Co. Rd. 110 N
Jolly Ln. from Hodges Dr. to     Stop         Traffic on Ferguson Circle shall
Hodges Dr.                                    stop for traffic on Jolly Ln.
                                              Traffic on Kennedy St. shall not
Kennedy St. from Base Rd. N to   Stop         be required to stop at the
Co. Rd. 10 W                                  intersection of Kennedy St. and
                                              Co. Rd. 10 W
Kozy Dr. from the dead end north Stop         -
to the dead end south
Lincoln Ave. from Carpenter Ave.              Traffic shall not be required to
to Grissom Ave.                  Stop         stop at the intersection of
                                              Lincoln Ave. and Carpenter Ave.
                                              Traffic on Lincoln St. shall stop
                                              for traffic on Main St.; traffic
Lincoln St. from Co. Rd. 560 W                on Lincoln St. shall stop for
to Chestnut St.                  Stop         traffic on Maple St.; traffic
                                              shall not be required to stop at
                                              the intersection of Lincoln St.
                                              and Chestnut St.
Maple St. from Middleton St. to               Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 110 N                    Stop         stop at the intersection of Maple
                                              St. and Co. Rd. 110 N
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Maple St. from Second St. to                  stop at the intersection of Maple
Adams St.                        Stop         St. and Second St.; traffic on
                                              Maple St. shall stop for traffic
                                              on Adams St.
Meadow Rd. from Co. Rd. 350 W to Stop         -
the dead end
Middleton St. from the dead end               Traffic on Middleton St. shall
to Main St.                      Stop         stop for traffic on Main St. (Co.
                                              Rd. 900 W)
More Dr. from U.S. 231 to dead   Stop         Traffic on More Dr. shall stop
end                                           for traffic on U.S. 231
                                              Traffic on North Base Rd. shall
North Base Rd. from Co. Rd. 350               stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 350
N to the corporate limits of     Stop         N; traffic on North Base Rd.
Rockport                                      shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              200 N
North Reo Dr. from S.R. 66 to    Stop         -
Rebel Square N
Oak Court from the dead end to   Stop         -
More Dr.
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 25 W shall not
Old 45 from Co. Rd. 100 S to     Stop         be required to stop at the
S.R. 45                                       intersection of Co. Rd. 25 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 100 S
                                              Traffic on Old State Rd. shall
Old State Rd. from Co. Rd. 500 N              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500
to Sliverdale Rd.                Stop         N; traffic on Old State Rd. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Sliverdale
                                              Rd.
Old S.R. 66 from the Warrick                  Traffic on Old S.R. 66 shall stop
county line to S.R. 66 east of   Stop         for traffic on S.R. 66
Co. Rd. 800 W
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Orchard Rd. and
Orchard Rd. from Co. Rd. 500 N   Stop         Co. Rd. 500 N; traffic on Orchard
to S.R. 66                                    Rd. shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 900 N; traffic on Orchard Rd.
                                              shall stop for traffic on S.R. 66
                                              Traffic on Parker St. shall stop
                                              for traffic on Ely Rd.; traffic
Parker St. from Ely Rd. to                    on Parker St. shall stop for
Johnson St.                      Stop         traffic on Johnson St.; traffic
                                              on Parker St. shall stop for
                                              traffic on Main St. (Co. Rd. 900
                                              W)
                                              Traffic on Payne Ave. shall stop
Payne Ave. from Rimstidt St. to               for traffic on Rimstidt St.;
Baste St.                        Stop         traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Payne
                                              Ave. and Baste St.
Rebel Square S from Rebel Square Stop         -
E to Rebel Square W
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Rebel
Rebel Square W from Rebel Square Stop         Square W and Rebel Square N;
S to Rebel Square N                           traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Rebel
                                              Square W and Rebel Square S
Rimstidt St. from Base Rd. N to  Stop         -
the dead end
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of River
                                              Rd. and Co. Rd. 300 S; traffic on
                                              Co. Rd. 500 W shall not be
                                              required to stop for traffic on
River Rd. from Co. Rd. 300 S to  Stop         River Rd.; traffic on River Rd.
the Warrick county line                       shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              500 W at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 500 W Co. Rd. 300 S; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of River Rd. and Co.
                                              Rd. 850 W
Roth St. from Ely Rd. to East                 Traffic shall not required to
St.                              Stop         stop at the intersection of Roth
                                              St. and East St.
                                              Traffic on Second St. shall stop
Second St. from Main St. to                   for traffic on Main St.; traffic
Maple St.                        Stop         shall not be required to stop at
                                              the intersection of Second St.
                                              and Maple St.
Short Seventh St. from South                  Traffic on Short Seventh St.
Sixth St. and the corporate      Stop         shall not be required to stop for
limits of Rockport to Irwin Dr.               traffic on Irwin Dr.
Short Sixth St. from South St.                Traffic on Short Sixth St. shall
and the corporate limits of      Stop         not be required to stop for
Rockport to Irwin Dr.                         traffic on Irwin Dr.
                                              Traffic on Silverdale Rd. shall
Silverdale Rd. from Co. Rd. 500               stop for traffic on U.S. 231/S.R.
N to U.S. 231                    Stop         66; traffic on Sliverdale Rd.
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              500 N
Sycamore St. from Johnson St. to Stop         -
the dead end
Walnut St. from Second St. to    Stop         Traffic on Division St. shall
Adams St.                                     stop for traffic on Walnut St.
Yogi St. from Co. Rd. 100 N to   Stop         -
Grizzly Ave.
 
   (B)   Grass, Jackson, Clay, and Carter Townships (District 2).
Intersection Type of sign Exception(s)
Intersection                     Type of sign Exception(s)
Base Rd. N from Co. Rd. 700 N to Stop         -
Co. Rd. 600 N
Base Rd. N from Co. Rd. 900 N to Stop         -
the dead end
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Base
                                              Rd. N and Co. Rd. 1500 N; all
Base Rd. N from Co. Rd. 1500 N   Stop         traffic shall stop at the
to S.R. 62                                    intersection of Base Rd. North
                                              and Co. Rd. 1350 N; traffic on
                                              Base Rd. N shall stop for traffic
                                              on S.R. 62
Co. Rd. 10 W from Co. Rd. 1475 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1350 N
Co. Rd. 75 W from Co. Rd. 1350 N              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 1300 N                Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 75 W and Co. Rd. 1300 N
Co. Rd. 75 W from S.R. 62 to Co.              Traffic shall not be required to
Rd. 1150 N                       Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 75 W and Co. Rd. 1150 N
Co. Rd. 100 E from Co. Rd. 1250  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 N shall
N to Co. Rd. 1200 N                           stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 100 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1150 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 100
Co. Rd. 100 W from Co. Rd. 1300               W; traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 N
N to Co. Rd. 950 N               Stop         shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              100 W; traffic on Co. Rd. 1050 N
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              100 W
Co. Rd. 125 W/150 W from Co. Rd.              Traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N shall
600 N to Co. Rd. 500 N           Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 125
                                              W/150 W
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 125 W from Co. Rd. 1350               stop at the intersection of Co.
N to S.R. 62                     Stop         Rd. 125 W and Co. Rd. 1350 N;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 125 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 62
Co. Rd. 150 E from Co. Rd. 1300  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 N shall
N to Co. Rd. 900 N                            stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 150 E
Co. Rd. 150 E from S.R. 162 to   Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 150 E shall
the dead end                                  stop for traffic on S.R. 162
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 150 W from Co. Rd. 750 N              stop at the intersection of Co.
to Co. Rd. 600 N                 Stop         Rd. 150 W and Co. Rd. 750 N;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 150 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 175 E from Co. Rd. 900 N Stop         -
to the dead end
Co. Rd. 175 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1250 N
Co. Rd. 175 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to S.R. 70
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 E shall
Co. Rd. 200 E/225 E from Co. Rd.              stop for traffic on S.R. 162;
1600 N to Co. Rd. 1250 N         Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 225 E shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1250
                                              N
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 600 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 500 N
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 1000  Stop         -
N to Co. Rd. 900 N
Co. Rd. 200 E from S.R. 70 to    Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 750 N shall
Co. Rd. 700 N                                 stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 200 W from Co. Rd. 150   Stop         -
W/240 W to Co. Rd. 500 N
Co. Rd. 215 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to S.R. 68
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 225 E and
                                              Co. Rd. 1950 N; both south bound
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 225 E and west
                                              bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1900 N
Co. Rd. 225 E from S.R. 68 to                 shall stop at their north
S.R. 62                          Stop         intersection; both north bound
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 225 E and east
                                              bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1900 N
                                              shall stop at their south
                                              intersection; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              1850 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              Co. Rd. 225 E
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 225 W and Co. Rd. 1050 N; all
Co. Rd. 225 W from Co. Rd. 1050  Stop         traffic shall stop at the
N to Co. Rd. 700 N                            intersection of Co. Rd. 225 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 950 N; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              775 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              Co. Rd. 225 W
Co. Rd. 240 W/Co. Rd. 150 W from              Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 W shall
Co. Rd. 600 N to Co. Rd. 500 N   Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 240
                                              W/150 W
Co. Rd. 250 W from Co. Rd. 700 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 600 N
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 275 E from Co. Rd. 1650  Stop         Rd. 275 E and Co. Rd. 1650 N;
N to Co. Rd. 1600 N                           traffic on Co. Rd. 275 E shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1600
                                              N
Co. Rd. 275 W from Co. Rd. 775 N              East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 775
to Co. Rd. 700 N                 Stop         N shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 275 W
Co. Rd. 290 E from Co. Rd. 1625               Traffic shall not be required to
N to Co. Rd. 1600 N              Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 290 E and Co. Rd. 1625 N
Co. Rd. 300 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1100 N
Co. Rd. 300 E from the Dubois                 All traffic shall stop at the
county line to S.R. 68           Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 300 E and
                                              Co. Rd. 2000 N
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 325 E from Co. Rd. 1650               Rd. 325 E and Co. Rd. 1650 N;
N to Co. Rd. 1600 N              Stop         north bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              325 E shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1625
                                              N
Co. Rd. 350 E from Co. Rd. 1100  Stop         -
N to Co. Rd. 1000
Co. Rd. 350 E from the corporate              Traffic on Co. Rd. 350 E shall
limits of Dale to Co. Rd. 1700 N Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1700
                                              N
Co. Rd. 350 E from the dead end  Stop         -
(north) to the dead end (south)
Co. Rd. 360 E from Co. Rd. 1200  Stop         -
N to Co. Rd. 1100 N
Co. Rd. 390 E from Co. Rd. 1700  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1650 N shall
N to S.R. 162                                 stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 390 E
Co. Rd. 400 E from S.R. 162 to                Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 1475 N                   Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 400 E and Co. Rd. 1475 N
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 400 W from Co. Rd. 1100               Rd. 400 W and Co. Rd. 1100 N;
N to Co. Rd. 800 N               Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 1075 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400
                                              W; traffic on Co. Rd. 975 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400 W
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 425 W from Co. Rd. 800 N Stop         Rd. 425 W and Co. Rd. 800 N;
to Co. Rd. 725 N                              north bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              425 W shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 785 N
Co. Rd. 442 W from Co. Rd. 785 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 780 N
Co. Rd. 410 E from Co. Rd. 1100               Traffic shall not be required to
N to Co. Rd. 1050 N              Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 410 E and Co. Rd. 1050 N
Co. Rd. 450 E from Co. Rd. 1900               Traffic shall not be required to
N to Co. Rd. 1800 N              Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 450 E and Co. Rd. 1800 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 975
                                              N; south bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              450 W shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 450 W from Co. Rd. 975 N Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N and
to Co. Rd. 500 N                              Co. Rd. 450 W; all traffic shall
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 450 W and Co. Rd. 785 N;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 475 E shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 162;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 1540 N shall
                                              not be required to stop for
Co. Rd. 475 E from S.R. 162 to   Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 475 E; all
Co. Rd. 1200 N                                traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 475 E and
                                              Co. Rd. 1350 N; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 475 E shall stop for traffic
                                              on Co. Rd. 1200 N
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 475 W and
Co. Rd. 475 W from the Warrick   Stop         Co. Rd. 1060 N; traffic shall not
county line to Co. Rd. 975 N                  be required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 475 W and
                                              Co. Rd. 975 N
Co. Rd. 500 E from the dead end
to the corporate limits of Santa Stop         -
Claus
Co. Rd. 500 E from the Dubois    Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 2000 N shall
county line to the dead end                   stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200
Co. Rd. 500 N from Co. Rd. 200 E              E; traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall
to Co. Rd. 500 W                 Stop         stop for traffic on U.S. 231; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 500 N and
                                              Orchard Rd.
Co. Rd. 525 W from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 700 N
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 550 E and
Co. Rd. 550 E from Co. Rd. 1450  Stop         Co. Rd. 1350 N; traffic shall not
N to Co. Rd. 1300 N                           be required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 550 E and
                                              Co. Rd. 1300 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd 1700 N shall
Co. Rd. 550 E from S.R. 245 to                stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 550
Co. Rd. 1675 N                   Stop         E; traffic shall not be required
                                              to stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 550 E and Co. Rd. 1675 N
Co. Rd. 550 N from Co. Rd. 200 E Stop         -
to U.S. 231
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 600 E and Co. Rd. 2100 N;
Co. Rd. 600 E from Co. Rd. 2100  Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 2010 N/525 E
N to S.R. 245                                 shall yield to traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              600 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 1900 N
                                              shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              600 E
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 600 E from the corporate              intersection of Co. Rd. 600 E and
limits of Santa Claus to Co. Rd. Stop         Co. Rd. 1350 N; all traffic shall
1000 N                                        stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 600 E and Co. Rd. 1200 N
                                              Traffic on Base Rd. N shall stop
                                              for traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N;
Co. Rd. 600 N from U.S. 231 to   Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 240 W shall
Co. Rd. 500 W                                 stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 600
                                              N; traffic on Co. Rd. 250 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N
Co. Rd. 625 E from Co. Rd. 1675  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1675 N shall
N to S.R. 162                                 stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 625 E
Co. Rd. 650 E from Co. Rd. 1300               Traffic shall not be required to
N to Co. Rd. 1200 N              Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 650 E and Co. Rd. 1300 N
Co. Rd. 650 N from Co. Rd. 450 W
to Luce Township line (Co. Rd.   Stop         -
500 W)
Co. Rd. 650 N from Orchard Rd.   Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 400 W
Co. Rd. 675 E from Co. Rd. 1930  Stop         -
N to the dead end
Co. Rd. 687 E from Co. Rd. 1930  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1920 N shall
N to the dead end                             stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 687 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 694 E shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1930
                                              N; south bound traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 694 E from Co. Rd. 1930  Stop         694 E shall stop for traffic on
N to Co. Rd. 1905 N                           Co. Rd. 1910 N; traffic shall not
                                              be required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 694 E and
                                              Co. Rd. 1905 N
Co. Rd. 700 E from Co. Rd. 1350               Traffic shall not be required to
N to Co. Rd. 1300 N              Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 700 E and Co. Rd. 1300 N
Co. Rd. 700 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 1000 N
                                              North bound traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 700 E from the dead end  Stop         700 E shall not be required to
(north) to the dead end (south)               stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1200
                                              N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 700 E shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 62;
Co. Rd. 700 E from the Dubois                 traffic shall not be required to
county line to the corporate     Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
limits of Santa Claus                         Rd. 700 E and Co. Rd. 1905 N;
                                              traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 700 E and Co. Rd. 1900 N
Co. Rd. 700 N from Co. Rd. 500 W Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 525 W shall
to Co. Rd. 700 W                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231;
Co. Rd. 700 N from U.S. 231 to   Stop         traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall
Co. Rd. 450 W                                 stop for traffic on Orchard Rd.;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W
Co. Rd. 700 W from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 710 N from Co. Rd. 450 W Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 500 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 780 N shall
Co. Rd. 725 N/780 N from Orchard Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 450
Rd. to Co. Rd. 450 W                          W; traffic on Co. Rd. 725 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Orchard Rd.
Co. Rd. 750 N from Co. Rd. 200 E              Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 150 W                 Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 750 N and Co. Rd. 150 W
                                              West bound traffic shall not be
Co. Rd. 775 N from Co. Rd. 225 W Stop         required to stop at the
to Co. Rd. 325 W                              intersection of Co. Rd. 775 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 275 W
Co. Rd. 775 N from Co. Rd. 725 N Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 450 W
Co. Rd. 775 N from S.R. 161 to   Stop         -
the dead end
                                              North bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              425 W shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 785
Co. Rd. 785 N from Co. Rd. 425 W Stop         N; all traffic shall stop at the
to the Warrick county line                    intersection of Co. Rd. 785 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 450 W; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              785 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              S.R. 161
Co. Rd. 800 E from the dead end               Traffic shall not be required to
to Co. Rd. 1900 N                Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 800 E and Co. Rd. 1900 N
Co. Rd. 800 E from the dead end  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 2100 N
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 400 W shall
Co. Rd. 800 N from Co. Rd. 325 W              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 800
to Co. Rd. 425 W                 Stop         N; traffic shall not be required
                                              to stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 800 N and Co. Rd. 425 W
Co. Rd. 800 N from U.S. 231 to   Stop         -
Old State Rd.
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall
Co. Rd. 900 N from Co. Rd. 200 E Stop         stop for traffic on U.S. 231;
to Co. Rd. 450 W                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 100 W shall
Co. Rd. 950 N from U.S. 231 to                stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 950
Co. Rd. 400 W                    Stop         N; all traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 950 N and
                                              Co. Rd. 225
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W shall
Co. Rd. 975 N from Co. Rd. 400 W              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 975
to Co. Rd. 475 W                 Stop         N; traffic shall not be required
                                              to stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 975 N and Co. Rd. 475 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 245;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N shall
Co. Rd. 1000 N from S.R. 245 to               stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 600
Old State Rd.                    Stop         E; traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N
                                              shall stop for traffic on U.S.
                                              231; traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N
                                              shall stop for traffic on Old
                                              State Rd.
Co. Rd. 1050 N from Co. Rd. 100               Traffic shall not be required to
W to Co. Rd. 225 W               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1050 N and Co. Rd. 225 W
Co. Rd. 1060 N from Co. Rd. 475               All traffic shall stop at the
W to the Warrick county line     Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 1060 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 475 W
Co. Rd. 1075 N from Co. Rd. 400  Stop         -
W to Co. Rd. 325 W
Co. Rd. 1100 N from Co. Rd. 100  Stop         -
W to Old State Rd.
Co. Rd. 1100 N from Co. Rd. 400               Traffic shall not be required to
W to Co. Rd. 475 W               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1100 N and Co. Rd. 400 W
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 1100 N from U.S. 231 to               intersection of Co. Rd. 1100 N
S.R. 245                         Stop         and Co. Rd. 250 N; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 1100 N shall stop for traffic
                                              on Co. Rd. 600 E; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 1100 N shall stop for traffic
                                              on S.R. 245
Co. Rd. 1150 N from Co. Rd. 100               Traffic shall not be required to
W to Co. Rd. 75 W                Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1150 N and Co. Rd. 75 W
Co. Rd. 1200 N from Co. Rd. 100  Stop         -
E to Co. Rd. 150 E
                                              All traffic shall stop at the
Co. Rd. 1200 N from Co. Rd. 1250              intersection of Co. Rd. 1200 N
N to S.R. 245                    Stop         and Co. Rd. 600 E; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 1200 N shall stop for traffic
                                              on S.R. 245
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1250 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231;
                                              west bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              1250 N shall stop for traffic on
Co. Rd. 1250 N from U.S. 231 to  Stop         Co. Rd. 1200 N; traffic on Co.
Co. Rd. 475 E                                 Rd. 1250 N shall stop for traffic
                                              on Co. Rd. 475 E; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 1250 N shall stop at the
                                              intersection of the Norfolk
                                              Southern Railway
Co. Rd. 1275 N from Co. Rd. 125  Stop         -
W to the dead end
Co. Rd. 1300 N from Co. Rd. 550               Traffic shall not be required to
E to Co. Rd. 600 E               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 550 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 100 W shall
Co. Rd. 1300 N from the Warrick               stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1300
county line to Co. Rd. 75 W      Stop         N; traffic shall not be required
                                              to stop at the intersection of
                                              Co. Rd. 1300 N and Co. Rd. 75 W
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1350 N and Co. Rd. 125 W;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 75 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1350
                                              N; traffic on Co. Rd. 10 W shall
Co. Rd. 1350 N from Co. Rd. 125  Stop         not be required to stop for
E to Co. Rd. 125 W                            traffic on Co. Rd. 1350 N; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 1350 N
                                              and Base Rd. N; traffic shall not
                                              be required to stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 1350 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 125 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1350 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 245; all
                                              traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 1350 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 600 E; all traffic
Co. Rd. 1350 N from S.R. 245 to  Stop         shall stop at the intersection of
Co. Rd. 225 E                                 Co. Rd. 1350 N and Co. Rd. 550 E;
                                              all traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Co. Rd. 1350 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 475 E; traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 1350 N shall stop for traffic
                                              on Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 1400 N from S.R. 245 to  Stop         -
Co. Rd. 600 E
Co. Rd. 1425 N from U.S. 231 to  Stop         -
the dead end
Co. Rd. 1450 N from Co. Rd. 600               Traffic on Co. Rd. 550 E shall
E to the dead end                Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1450
                                              N
Co. Rd. 1450 N from S.R. 245 to               Traffic on Co. Rd. 1450 N shall
Co. Rd. 600 E                    Stop         not be required to stop for
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 600 E
Co. Rd. 1475 N/400 E from Co.    Stop         -
Rd. 475 E to S.R. 162
Co. Rd. 1475 N from the Warrick  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1475 N shall
county line to Base Rd. N                     stop for traffic on Base Rd. N
Co. Rd. 1500 N from Co. Rd. 150  Stop         -
E to Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 1540 N from the dead end Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 475 E
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
Co. Rd. 1600 N from Co. Rd. 200  Stop         Rd. 200 E and Co. Rd. 1600 N;
E to Co. Rd. 290 E                            traffic shall not be required to
                                              stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 290 E and Co. Rd. 1600 N
                                              East bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              1625 N shall stop for traffic on
                                              Co. Rd. 300 E, west of the
Co. Rd. 1625 N from Co. Rd. 325  Stop         railroad crossing; traffic on Co.
E to Co. Rd. 290 E                            Rd. 1625 N shall stop at the
                                              intersection on the Norfolk
                                              Southern and Hoosier Southern
                                              Railway
Co. Rd. 1630 N from Co. Rd. 300  Stop         -
E to Co. Rd. 275 E
                                              East bound traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 1650 N from Co. Rd. 390               1650 N shall stop for traffic on
E to Co. Rd. 325 E               Stop         Co. Rd. 390 E; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              1650 N shall not be required to
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 325 E
Co. Rd. 1675 N from S.R. 245 to               Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 550 E                    Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1675 N and Co. Rd. 550 E
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 1700 N shall
Co. Rd. 1700 N from Co. Rd. 550               stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 550
E to the dead end west of Co.    Stop         E; traffic on Co. Rd. 1700 N
Rd. 300 E                                     shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              300 E
Co. Rd. 1750 N from the dead end Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 350 E
Co. Rd. 1800 N from Co. Rd. 450               Traffic shall not be required to
E to Co. Rd. 350 E               Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
                                              Rd. 1800 N and Co. Rd. 450 E
Co. Rd. 1800 N from Co. Rd. 750               Traffic on Co. Rd. 700 E shall
E to Co. Rd. 700 East            Stop         not be required to stop for
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 750 E
Co. Rd. 1850 N from S.R. 62 to   Stop         -
Co. Rd. 225 E
Co. Rd. 1900 N from Co. Rd. 700               Traffic on Co. Rd. 675 E shall
E to Co. Rd. 675 E               Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1900
                                              N
Co. Rd. 1900 N from the
corporate limits of Dale to S.R. Stop         -
245
                                              Both south bound traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 225 E and west bound traffic
Co. Rd. 1900 N from the                       on Co. Rd. 1900 N shall
corporate limits of Dale to the  Stop         stop at their north intersection;
Warrick county line                           both north bound traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 225 E and east bound traffic
                                              on Co. Rd. 1900 N shall stop at
                                              their south intersection
Co. Rd. 1910 N from Co. Rd. 675  Stop         Traffic on Co. Rd. 1910 N shall
E to Co. Rd. 700 E                            stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 E
Co. Rd. 1920 N from Co. Rd. 700  Stop         -
E to Co. Rd. 687 E
                                              Traffic on west end of Co. Rd.
                                              1930 N shall stop for traffic on
Co. Rd. 1930 N from S.R. 62 to                S.R. 62; traffic on Co. Rd. 1930
S.R. 62                          Stop         N shall stop for traffic on Co.
                                              Rd. 700 E; traffic on east end of
                                              Co. Rd. 1930 N shall stop for
                                              traffic on S.R. 62
Co. Rd. 1975 N from the Harrison
Township border (Co. Rd. 800 E)  Stop         -
to Co. Rd. 700 E
Co. Rd. 2000 N from Co. Rd. 500               All traffic shall stop at the
E to S.R. 68                     Stop         intersection of Co. Rd. 2000 N
                                              and Co. Rd. 300 E
Co. Rd. 2010 N/525 E from Co.                 Traffic on Co. Rd. 2010 N/525 E
Rd. 2100 N to Co. Rd. 600 E      Stop         shall yield to traffic on Co. Rd.
                                              600 E
Co. Rd. 2100 N from Co. Rd. 800  -            -
E to County
                                              Traffic shall not be required to
Co. Rd. 2100 N from Co. Rd. 600               stop at the intersection of Co.
E to U.S. 231                    Stop         Rd. 2100 N and Co. Rd. 600 E;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 2100 N shall
                                              stop for traffic on U.S. 231
                                              Traffic on Old State Rd. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 900
                                              N; traffic on Old State Rd. shall
Old State Rd. from S.R. 62 to    Stop         stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700
Co. Rd. 500 N                                 N; traffic on Old State Rd. shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500
                                              N; traffic on Old State Rd. shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 62
                                              Traffic on Orchard Rd. shall stop
Orchard Rd. from the Warrick                  for traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N; all
county line to Co. Rd. 500 N     Stop         traffic shall stop at the
                                              intersection of Orchard Rd. and
                                              Co. Rd. 500 N
 
   (C)   Hammond, Huff, and Harrison Townships (District 3).
Intersection Type of Sign Exception(s)
                                                                             Type
Intersection                                                                 of    Exception(s)
                                                                             Sign
                                                                                   Traffic on Brewery St. shall stop for traffic on Second St.; traffic on
Brewery St. from the dead end to Sixth St.                                   Stop  Brewery St. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545; south bound traffic on Sixth
                                                                                   St. shall not be required to stop for traffic on Brewery St.
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 300 N to Co. Rd. 350 N                            Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 200 E and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 00 N
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 500 N to Co. Rd. 550 N                            Stop  West bound traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall not be required to stop for traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 700 N to S.R. 70                                  Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 200 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 70; west bound traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 700 N shall not be required to stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 200 E from Co. Rd. 900 N to Co. Rd. 1000 N                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 250 E from the dead end to S.R. 70                                   Stop  -
Co. Rd. 250 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to Co. Rd. 900 N                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 250 E from Co. Rd. 400 N to Co. Rd. 350 N                            Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersections of Co. Rd. 250 E
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 400 N
Co. Rd. 260 E from Co. Rd. 300 N to S.R. 66                                  Stop  -
Co. Rd. 275 E from Co. Rd. 350 N to Co. Rd. 300 N                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 275 E from Co. Rd. 900 N to S.R. 70                                  Stop  -
Co. Rd. 300 E from Co. Rd. 575 N (Highland Rd.) to Co. Rd. 350 N             Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 550 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 300 E
Co. Rd. 300/325 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to Co. Rd. 900 N                       Stop  -
Co. Rd. 300 N from the corporate limits of Grandview to Co. Rd. 200 E        Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 300 N and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 325 E from Co. Rd. 900 N to S.R. 70                                  Stop  -
Co. Rd. 350 E from Co. Rd. 400 N to Co. Rd. 350 N                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 350 E (Highland Rd.) from Co. Rd. 550 N to Co. Rd. 400 N             Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 350 E (Highland Rd.) shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400
                                                                                   N
Co. Rd. 350 N from Co. Rd. 350 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 360 E/400 E (Finch Hill Rd.) from Co. Rd. 500 N to Co. Rd. 400 N     Stop  -
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 375 E shall not be required to stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 375 E from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 750                                    Stop  750 N; east bound traffic on Co. Rd. 750 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   375 E
Co. Rd. 400 E from Co. Rd. 750 N to Co. Rd. 550 N                            Stop  -
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 400 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 245; traffic on Co.
Co. Rd. 400 N from S.R. 245 to Co. Rd. 250 E                                 Stop  Rd. 400 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 66; traffic shall not be required to
                                                                                   stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 400 N and Co. Rd. 250 E
Co. Rd. 460 E/Co. Rd. 550 E from River Rd. E to S.R. 66                      Stop  -
Co. Rd. 475 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to S.R. 245                                Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 475 E
Co. Rd. 550 E/Co. Rd. 575 E from S.R. 66 to Co. Rd. 600 N                    Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 550 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 70; west bound traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 600 N shall not be required to stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 575 E
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 650 E and
Co. Rd. 500 N/650 E from Co. Rd. 625 N to Co. Rd. 550 E                      Stop  Co. Rd. 625 N; west bound traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall not be required to
                                                                                   stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 575 E
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 350 E; east bound
Co. Rd. 500 N from S.R. 245 to Co. Rd. 200 E                                 Stop  traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N shall not be required to stop at the intersection of
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 500 N and Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 550 E from Co. Rd. 900 N to Co. Rd. 600 N                            Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 550 E
Co. Rd. 550 N from Co. Rd. 300 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 550 N from S.R. 245 to Co. Rd. 350 E                                 Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 400 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 550 N
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 794 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 583 E; traffic
Co. Rd. 583 E from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 786                                    Stop  shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 583 E and Co. Rd.
                                                                                   786 N
Co. Rd. 600 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to Co. Rd. 600 N                           Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 600 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 70
                                                                                   West bound traffic on Co. Rd. 600 N shall not be required to stop for traffic
Co. Rd. 600 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to S.R. 245                                 Stop  on Co. Rd. 575 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 550 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   600 N
Co. Rd. 600 N from Highland Rd. to the dead end                              Stop  -
Co. Rd. 625 N from Co. Rd. 775 E to Co. Rd. 600 E                            Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection on Co. Rd. 625 N and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 650 E
Co. Rd. 625 N from S.R. 245 to Highland Rd.                                  Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 400 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 625 N
Co. Rd. 650 from Co. Rd. 625 N to Co. Rd. 500 N                              Stop  -
Co. Rd. 675 N from Co. Rd. 800 E to Co. Rd. 775 E                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 700 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to Co. Rd. 700 N                           Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 E; traffic shall
                                                                                   not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 700 E and Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 700 N from Co. Rd. 775 E to Co. Rd. 700 E                            Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 750 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N
Co. Rd. 700 N from Highland Rd. to Co. Rd. 200 E                             Stop  East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 700 N shall not be required to stop at the
                                                                                   intersection of Co. Rd. 700 N and Co. Rd. 200 E
Co. Rd. 700 N from the dead end to S.R. 245                                  Stop  -
Co. Rd. 725 E from S.R. 66 to the Ohio River                                 Stop  -
Co. Rd. 725 N from Co. Rd. 900 E to the dead end                             Yield -
Co. Rd. 750 E from S.R. 245/70 to Co. Rd. 700 N                              Stop  -
                                                                                   West bound traffic on Co. Rd. 750 N shall not be required to stop at the
Co. Rd. 750 N from the dead end to Highland Rd.                              Stop  intersection of Co. Rd. 750 N and Co. Rd. 375 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 400 E
                                                                                   shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 750 N
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 775 E and
Co. Rd. 775 E from Co. Rd. 700 N to Co. Rd. 800 E                            Stop  Co. Rd. 700 N; traffic on Co. Rd. 775 E shall yield to traffic on Co. Rd. 800
                                                                                   E
Co. Rd. 786 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to Co. Rd. 583 E                            Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 786 N and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 583 E
Co. Rd. 794 N from Co. Rd. 600 E to Co. Rd. 583 E                            Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 794 N and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 583 E
Co. Rd. 800 E from the dead end to Co. Rd. 2100 N                            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 800 E from the dead end to S.R. 62                                   Stop  -
Co. Rd. 800 E from S.R. 245 to the Ohio River                                Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 775 shall yield to traffic on Co. Rd. 800 E; traffic on Co.
                                                                                   Rd. 800 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 66
Co. Rd. 850 E from Co. Rd. 800 E/Co. Rd. 1850 E to Co. Rd. 1750 N            Stop  -
Co. Rd. 850 E from Co. Rd. 1000 N to S.R. 70                                 Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 850 E
Co. Rd. 850 E from Co. Rd. 1500 N to Co. Rd. 1450 N (St. Peter’s Church Rd.Stop  -
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 875 E and
Co. Rd. 875 E from Co. Rd. 2200 N to Co. Rd. 2050 N                          Stop  Co. Rd. 2200 N; west bound traffic on Co. Rd. 2050 N shall stop for traffic on
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 875 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 875 E shall yield for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   2050 N
Co. Rd. 900/925 E from S.R. 70 to S.R. 66                                    Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 725 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 900/925 E
Co. Rd. 900 E from Co. Rd. 1300 N to Co. Rd. 1200 N                          Stop  -
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 E; traffic on
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 245; traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N
Co. Rd. 900 N from Co. Rd. 1000 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                           Stop  shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 700 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop
                                                                                   for traffic on Co. Rd. 600 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 475 E
Co. Rd. 900 N from Co. Rd. 1430 E to S.R. 545                                Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 900 N and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 1430 E
Co. Rd. 925 N from Co. Rd. 1240 E to Stones Ln.                              Stop  North bound traffic on Stones Ln. shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 925 N
Co. Rd. 950 E from Co. Rd. 900 N to S.R. 70                                  Yield -
Co. Rd. 950 E from S.R. 162 to S.R. 62                                       Stop  -
Co. Rd. 950 N from Co. Rd. 1100 E to Old Lamar Highway                       Stop  West bound traffic on Co. Rd. 950 N shall stop at the intersection of Co. Rd.
                                                                                   950 N and Old Lamar Highway
Co. Rd. 950 N from the Perry county line to S.R. 545                         Stop  -
Co. Rd. 975 E from Co. Rd. 1200 N to Co. Rd. 1100 N                          Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1125 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 975 E
Co. Rd. 1000 E from Co. Rd. 1400 N to Co. Rd. 1300 N                         Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1000 E from Co. Rd. 1600 N to Co. Rd. 1400 N                         Stop  Both west bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1550 N and north bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   100 E shall stop at the intersection
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1000 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1175 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N shall stop for traffic on Co.
Co. Rd. 1000 N from Co. Rd. 1175 E to Co. Rd. 200 E                          Stop  Rd. 950 E (Old Lamar Highway); traffic shall not be required to stop at the
                                                                                   intersection of Co. Rd. 1000 N and Co. Rd. 850 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N
                                                                                   shall stop for traffic on S.R. 245; traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 N shall stop for
                                                                                   traffic on Co. Rd. 600 E
Co. Rd. 1025/1000 E from Old Lamar Highway to S.R. 66                        Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 900 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 E
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 1240 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1025 N; east bound
                                                                                   traffic on Co. Rd. 1025 shall not be required to stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
Co. Rd. 1025 N from S.R. 545 to McDonald Ave.                                Stop  1200 E; traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd.
                                                                                   1025 N and McDonald Ave.; east bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1025 N shall not be
                                                                                   required to stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1150 E
Co. Rd. 1050 E from Co. Rd. 1225 N to St. Peter’s Church Rd. (Co. Rd. 1125 Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1050 E
N)                                                                                 and Co. Rd. 1225 N
Co. Rd. 1050 E from Co. Rd. 2160 N to S.R. 62                                Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1050 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62
Co. Rd. 1075 N from the Perry county line to S.R. 545                        Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1075 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545
Co. Rd. 1100 E from Co. Rd. 950 N to Old Lamar Highway                       Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1100 E
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 950 N
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1460 N; traffic on
Co. Rd. 1100 E from Co. Rd. 1460 N to St. Peter’s Church Rd.               Stop  Co. Rd. 1100 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1400 N; traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   1100 E shall stop for traffic on St. Peter’s Church Rd.
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1100 N
Co. Rd. 1100 N from McDonald Ave. to S.R. 245                                Stop  and Co. Rd. 975 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 950 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   1100 N
Co. Rd. 1125 N from Co. Rd. 1050 E to Co. Rd. 975 E                          Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1125 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1050 E
Co. Rd. 1150 E from Plum St. to Jefferson St.                                Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1150 E
                                                                                   and Plum St.
Co. Rd. 1150 N from Co. Rd. 1200 E to Co. Rd. 1100 E                         Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1160 N from S.R. 545 to Co. Rd. 1200 E                               Stop  South bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1160 N
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1260 N; south
Co. Rd. 1200 E from Co. Rd. 1260 N to Co. Rd. 1025 N                         Stop  bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 E shall stop for west bound traffic on Co. Rd.
                                                                                   1160 N
Co. Rd. 1200 N from Saint Peter’s Rd. to S.R. 245                          Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 N shall stop for traffic on St. Peter’s Rd.; traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 1200 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 245
Co. Rd. 1200 N from the dead end to S.R. 545                                 Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1375 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 N
Co. Rd. 1225 N from Co. Rd. 1100 E to Co. Rd. 1050 E                         Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1225 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1050 E
Co. Rd. 1225 N from Co. Rd. 1425 E to Co. Rd. 1375 E                         Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1250 E from Monte Cassino Rd. to Co. Rd. 2160 N                      Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1250 E
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1200 E
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1250 N
Co. Rd. 1250 N from Co. Rd. 1350 E to Co. Rd. 1200 E                         Stop  and Co. Rd. 1350 E; all traffic shall stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1250
                                                                                   N and S.R. 545
Co. Rd. 1260 N from Co. Rd. 1200 E to Co. Rd. 1100 E                         Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1200 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1260 N
Co. Rd. 1275 E/1300 E from S.R. 545 to the dead end                          Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1300 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545; traffic on Co.
                                                                                   Rd. 1740 N shall yield for traffic on Co. Rd. 1275 E
Co. Rd. 1275 N from Co. Rd. 1100 E to the dead end                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1275 N from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1350 E                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1280 E from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1550 N                           Stop  -
                                                                                   Traffic on Co. Rd. 1300 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1550 N; traffic
Co. Rd. 1300 E from Co. Rd. 1550 N to Co. Rd. 1350 N                         Stop  shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1300 E and Co.
                                                                                   Rd. 1350 N
Co. Rd. 1300 N from Co. Rd. 1100 E to S.R. 245                               Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1000 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1300 N
Co. Rd. 1300 E from S.R. 545 to S.R. 66                                      Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 925 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1300 E
Co. Rd. 1300 N from S.R. 545 to the dead end                                 Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1350 N from Co. Rd. 1300 E to the dead end                           Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1350 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1300 E
Co. Rd. 1350 N from Co. Rd. 1440 E to Huffman Mill Rd.                       Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1360 E from the Dubois county line to S.R. 62                        Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1360 E shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62
Co. Rd. 1375 E from Co. Rd. 1225 N to Co. Rd. 1200 N                         Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1225 N shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1375 E
Co. Rd. 1400 N from Huffman Mill Rd. to Saint Peter’s Rd.                  Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1400 N; traffic on
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 1000 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1400 N
Co. Rd. 1450 E from Co. Rd. 1075 N to Huffman Mill Rd.                       Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1450 E shall stop for traffic on Huffman Mill Rd.; traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 1450 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1075 N
Co. Rd. 1450 N from Saint Peter’s Rd. to S.R. 245                          Stop  -
                                                                                   North bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1460
Co. Rd. 1460 N from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1500 N                           Stop  N; traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1460 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1500 N
Co. Rd. 1490 N from Huffman Mill Rd. to Co. Rd. 1350 E                       Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1490 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1350 E
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1500 N
Co. Rd. 1500 N from Co. Rd. 1460 N to S.R. 245                               Stop  and Co. Rd. 1460 N; traffic on Co. Rd. 1500 N shall stop for traffic on S.R.
                                                                                   245
Co. Rd. 1550 N from Co. Rd. 1350 E to Co. Rd. 1000 E                         Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1550 N shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545; traffic on Co.
                                                                                   Rd. 1000 E shall yield to traffic on Co. Rd. 1550 N
Co. Rd. 1600 N from the Harrison Township border to Fulda Shortcut Rd.       Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1600 N shall stop for traffic on Fulda Shortcut Rd.
Co. Rd. 1615 N from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1280 E                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1615 N from the dead end to S.R. 545                                 Stop  -
Co. Rd .1700 N from Fulda Shortcut Rd. to S.R. 162                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1700 N from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1275 E                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1740 N from Co. Rd. 1300 E/1275 E to S.R. 545                        Stop  East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1740 N shall yield for traffic on Co. Rd. 1275 E
Co. Rd. 1740 N from Long Johnny Town Rd. to Fulda Shortcut Rd.               Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1750 N from S.R. 162 to Co. Rd. 850 E                                Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 1750 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 850 E
Co. Rd. 1950 N from S.R. 62 to S.R. 62                                       Stop  -
Co. Rd. 1950 N from the Perry county line to S.R. 545                        Stop  -
                                                                                   East bound traffic on Co. Rd. 2050 N shall not be required to stop for traffic
Co. Rd. 2050 N/1900 N from Co. Rd. 800 E to S.R. 162                         Stop  on Co. Rd. 875 E; traffic on Co. Rd. 875 E shall yield to east bound traffic
                                                                                   on Co. Rd. 2050 N
Co. Rd. 2100 N from Co. Rd. 800 E to S.R. 162                                Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 875 E shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 2100 N
Co. Rd. 2100 N/2160 N from Co. Rd. 1200 E to Co. Rd. 1360 E                  Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 2160 N
                                                                                   and Co. Rd. 1200 E
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Co. Rd. 2160 N
Co. Rd. 2160/2140 N from Co. Rd. 975 E to Monte Cassino Rd.                  Stop  and Co. Rd. 975 E; both west bound traffic on Co. Rd. 1050 N and north bound
                                                                                   traffic on Co. Rd. 975 E shall stop for intersecting traffic
Co. Rd. 2160 N from Co. Rd. 1360 E to the dead end                           Stop  -
Co. Rd. 2160 N from the Perry county line to Co. Rd. 1360 E                  Stop  -
Dilger Rd. (Co. Rd. 1175 E/1125 E) from S.R. 62 to Monte Cassino Rd.         Stop  -
Fifth St. from Green St. to the dead end                                     Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Fifth St. and
                                                                                   Green St.
Fifth St. from S.R. 62 to Brewery St.                                        Stop  -
First St. from the dead end to S.R. 62                                       Stop  Traffic on First St. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62
Fourth St. from Green St. to Brewery St.                                     Stop  Traffic on Main St. shall stop for traffic on Fourth St.
Fulda Shortcut Rd. from S.R. 62 to S.R. 545                                  Stop  Traffic on Fulda Shortcut Rd. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62; traffic on
                                                                                   Fulda Shortcut Rd shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Green St. and
Green St. from Third St. to Fifth St.                                        Stop  Fifth St.; traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Green
                                                                                   St. and Third St.
Hassfurther Rd. from Fulda Shortcut Rd. to Co. Rd. 800 E                     Stop  Traffic on Hassfurther Rd. shall stop for traffic on Fulda Shortcut Rd.;
                                                                                   traffic on Hassfurther Rd. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 162
Highland Rd. from S.R. 70 to Co. Rd. 400 N                                   Stop  Traffic on Highland Rd. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 70; traffic on Highland
                                                                                   Rd. shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 400 N
Huffman Mill Rd. from the Perry county line to S.R. 545                      Stop  Traffic on Huffman Mill Rd. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 545
Long Johnny Town Rd. from Short Johnny Town Rd. to S.R. 545                  Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1740 N shall stop for traffic on Long Johnny Town Rd.
Main St. from First St. to Sixth St.                                         Stop  Traffic on Fifth St. shall stop for traffic on Main St.
McDonald Ave. from Co. Rd. 1100 N to Co. Rd. 1025 N                          Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1025 N shall not be required to stop for traffic on
                                                                                   McDonald Ave.
Monte Cassino Rd. from the Dubois county line to S.R. 62                     Stop  Traffic on Monte Cassino Rd. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62
Old Lamar Highway from Co. Rd. 1100 N to S.R. 66                             Stop  Traffic on Old Lamar Highway shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1100 N; traffic
                                                                                   on Old Lamar Highway shall stop for traffic on S.R. 66
                                                                                   Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Plum St. and Vino
Plum St. from Vino St. to Co. Rd. 1150 E                                     Stop  St.; traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Plum St. and
                                                                                   Co. Rd. 1150 E
Schwindel Alley from First St. to Second St.                                 Stop  -
Second St. from the dead end to Co. Rd. 1950 N                               Stop  Traffic on Second St. shall stop for traffic on S.R. 62; traffic on Second St.
                                                                                   shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1950 N
Short Johnny Town Rd. from S.R. 62 to S.R. 545                               Stop  Traffic on Long Johnny Town Rd. shall stop for traffic on Short Johnny Town
                                                                                   Rd.
Sixth St. from the dead end to Brewery St.                                   Stop  Traffic on Main St. shall stop for traffic on Sixth St.; traffic on Sixth St.
                                                                                   shall not be required to stop for traffic on Brewery St.
St. Peter’s Church Rd. from Co. Rd. 1450 N to Co. Rd. 1100 N               Stop  Traffic on Co. Rd. 1450 N shall not be required to stop for traffic on St.
                                                                                   Peter’s Church Rd.
Stones Ln. from Co. Rd. 1025 N to Old Lamar Highway                          Stone North bound traffic on Stones Ln. shall stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 1025 N;
                                                                                   traffic on Stones Ln. shall stop for traffic on Old Lamar Highway
Third St. from Green St. to S.R. 62                                          Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Third St. and
                                                                                   Green St.; traffic on Main St. shall stop for traffic on Fourth St.
Vino St. from Plum St. to Jefferson St.                                      Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Vino St. and Plum
                                                                                   St.
Washington St. from S.R. 545 to West St.                                     Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of Washington St.
                                                                                   and West St.
West St. from Washington St. to Jefferson St.                                Stop  Traffic shall not be required to stop at the intersection of West St. and
                                                                                   Washington St.; traffic on Plum St. shall stop for traffic on West St.
 
   (D)   Other intersections.
 
Intersection                     Type of Sign Exception(s)
Co. Rd. 200 N and Silverdale Rd. Stop         -
(four-way stop)
                                              Traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on S.R. 66 at
                                              the intersection of Co. Rd. 450 W
                                              and S.R. 66; all traffic shall
Co. Rd. 450 W from S.R.66 to Co. Stop         stop at the intersection of Co.
Rd. 500 N                                     Rd. 450 W and Co. Rd. 200 N;
                                              traffic on Co. Rd. 450 W shall
                                              stop for traffic on Co. Rd. 500 N
                                              at the intersection of Co. Rd.
                                              450 W and Co. Rd. 500 N
 
(Ord. 1998-15, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 2012-03, passed 3-8-2012; Ord. 2017-03,
passed 7-5-2017)
SCHEDULE III. RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   Stop signs shall be erected, and all traffic shall stop at each railroad
crossing of the county highways at the following locations:
   (A)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 2100 N between Old 231 and Co. Rd. 500 E;
   (B)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 2000 N one mile east of Old 231;
   (C)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1900 N one-fourth mile west of State Rd.
245;
   (D)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1800 N one-fourth mile east of Co. Rd.
350 E;
   (E)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1750 N just east of Co. Rd. 350 E;
   (F)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 350 E just north of Co. Rd. 1700 N;
   (G)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1700 N just west of Co. Rd. 350 E;
   (H)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 300 E and 1625 N at the junction;
   (I)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 200 E/225 E one and one-half mile south
of State Rd. 162;
   (J)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1250 N (Bradley Station) one-fourth mile
west of Co. Rd. 225 E;
   (K)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 150 E one-fourth mile south of Co. Rd.
1200 N;
   (L)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1100 N one-fourth mile east of Old 231;
   (M)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1000 N just west of Old 231;
   (N)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 950 N just west of Old 231;
   (O)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 900 N just west of Old 231;
   (P)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 800 N just west of Old 231;
   (Q)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 750 N just west of Old 231;
   (R)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 700 N just west of Old 231;
   (S)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 600 N just west of Old 231;
   (T)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 500 N just west of Old 231;
   (U)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 400 N just west of Old 231;
   (V)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 350 N just west of Old 231;
   (W)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 250 N one-fourth mile west of Old 231;
   (X)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 200 N one-half mile west of Old 231;
   (Y)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 300 E just south of Co. Rd. 1625 N;
   (Z)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 475 E south of Co. Rd. 1540 N;
   (AA)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 550 E north of Co. Rd. 1350 N;
   (BB)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 600 E just north of Co. Rd. 1350 N;
   (CC)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1350 N one-fourth mile east of Co. Rd.
600 E;
   (DD)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 700 E just south of Co. Rd. 1350 N;
   (EE)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1200 N just west of Co. Rd. 900 E;
   (FF)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1100 N at the junction of Co. Rd. 975 E;
   (GG)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1100 N one mile east of Co. Rd. 975 E;
   (HH)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1100 N one and one-fourth mile east of
Co. Rd. 975 E;
   (II)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1150 E just north of Co. Rd. 1050 N;
   (JJ)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1050 N at the junction of Co. Rd. 1150E;
   (KK)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 1240 E just south of Co. Rd. 1025 N;
   (LL)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 200 E one and one-fourth mile south of
Co. Rd. 1600 N;
   (MM)   Railroad crossing of Co. Rd. 150 E; and
   (NN)   Railroad crossing of Base Rd. just north of Co. Rd. 1475 N.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 11-5-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   RESERVED
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Illegal Trash Burning
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Applicability
   
90.04   Definitions
   
90.05   Acts prohibited
   
90.06   Acts allowed
   
90.07   Variances
   
90.08   Burning guidelines
   
90.09   Enforcement authority
   
90.10   Investigation
   
90.11   Enforcement
   
90.12   Indirect liability
Property Maintenance
   
90.25   Title
   
90.26   Purpose
   
90.27   Authority
   
90.28   Definitions
   
90.29   Trash and junk
   
90.30   Weeds
   
90.31   Abandoned and junk vehicles
   
90.32   Investigation
   
90.33   Violations
   
90.34   Notice of violation
   
90.35   Hearing
   
90.36   Enforcement by other means
   
90.37   Remedies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ILLEGAL TRASH BURNING
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter is titled “Joint Spencer County Illegal Trash Burning
Ordinance,” and may be referred to as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare, and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety, and
welfare, of the citizens of the county due to the air pollution and fire
hazards of outdoor burning and burning trash.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane, or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace, or other heating device, unless the material being burned includes
TRASH, as defined in §
90.04.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a device intended for heating
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues, as is in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. Any situation that because of posing a threat to the
public health, the safety of public or private property, or the welfare of the
environment:
      (1)   The type of material being burned (for example, hazardous or
noxious materials);
      (2)   The atmospheric conditions during the burning; or
      (3)   The careless nature in which the burning is occurring.
   EXEMPTION. As defined under 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3, and includes, but is not
limited to, allowances for open burning to occur when burning clean, untreated
wood and natural wood products (including leaves), charcoal and other
traditional food cooking fuels, vegetation from a farm, an orchard, a nursery,
a tree farm, or a drainage ditch, as well as fires used for recreational or
ceremonial purposes, such as school pep rally fires or the celebration of scout
activities, unless prohibited by a burn ban or local ordinance.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any waste that, because of its quantity, concentration,
or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to health or to the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed of,
or otherwise managed;
      (3)   Be nondegradable or persistent in the environment;
      (4)   Be biologically magnified;
      (5)   Cause, or tend to cause, cumulative effects; and/or
      (6)   Be defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.3, and any future amendments.
   NOXIOUS MATERIALS. Materials that, when burned, produce by-products that may
be injurious to human health or the environment. This list of materials shall
include, but not be limited to, tires, roofing material, treated lumber, waste
oil, oil contaminated products, and herbicide/pesticide products and their
containers.
   OPEN BURNING. As defined under 326 I.A.C. 4-1-0.5(6), the burning of any
materials wherein air contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted
directly into the air without passing through a stack or chimney from an
enclosed chamber.
   PERSON. As defined in I.C. 13-11-2-158, any individual, partnership, co-
partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, municipal corporation, city, school city, town, school district,
school corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency, a contractor, or any other legal entity.
   PREDOMINANTLY WOODEN STRUCTURE. A CLEAN WOOD, as defined in this section,
structure with no coatings, wiring, plumbing fixtures, or other non-wood items.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, or other discarded or disposed
materials, including solid, liquid, or semi-solid, or contained gaseous
materials resulting from any operation, activity, or source. For the purposes
of this subchapter, this definition excludes HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, as defined
above.
   STACK. A duct, chimney, flue, or other conduit arranged for the purpose of
emission or channeling of air pollutants into the atmosphere.
   TRASH. Any waste material except clean wood products and leaves.
   UNATTENDED BURNING. The burning of materials without a person in attendance.
This definition shall include, but not be limited to, leaving the property
where open burning is occurring, being outside of visual sight of where the
open burning is occurring, going indoors while open burning, and leaving a fire
before it is fully extinguished.
   VARIANCE. A permit allowing open burning with the approval of the State Air
Pollution Control Board or its designated agent or agents.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.05 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are prohibited:
   (A)   Burning of all HAZARDOUS MATERIALS and all NOXIOUS MATERIALS, as
defined in §
90.04, or as defined by any state or federal laws, rules, or regulations;
   (B)   Burning of household trash, either on the ground or in a burn barrel,
including, but not limited to, food waste, packaging, newspaper, corrugated
cardboard, container board, office paper, plastic containers, polystyrene, and
disposable diapers;
   (C)   Burning wood products that are painted, varnished, or stained,
including, but not limited to, plywood and composite wood products;
   (D)   Unattended burning that creates, or could create, an emergency
situation; and
   (E)   Any burning not exempt as provided herein, or allowed by a variance.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ACTS ALLOWED.
   The following acts are allowed:
   (A)   All acts, as defined by I.C. 13-17-9-1, subject to the conditions of
I.C. 13-17-9-3, and as amended, including EXEMPTIONS, as defined in §
90.04;
   (B)   Burning of clean wood, leaves, weeds, brush, stumps, and any other
vegetative debris. If the brush pile is more than 125 cubic feet (for example,
five feet long, five feet wide, and five feet high), the County Dispatch must
be notified at (812) 649-2286 or (800) 498-7300 before igniting;
   (C)   Recreational or ceremonial fires that meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Only clean, untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper
products can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   If the pile is more than 125 cubic feet (for example, five feet
long, five feet wide, and five feet high), the County Dispatch must be notified
at least 24 hours prior to any burning.
      (3)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place, and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (4)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example, ten feet long, ten feet wide, and ten feet high).
      (5)   The fires shall not be used solely for disposal purposes.
      (6)   Fires shall not take place within 500 feet of any fuel storage area
or pipeline.
   (D)   Burning of predominantly wood structures on real property, or wood
remnants of the demolition of a predominantly wooden structure originally
located on real property. The County Solid Waste Management District must be
notified 72 hours (three days) before the planned burn; and
   (E)   All allowed acts and variances are subject to, and shall adhere to,
the “Illegal Trash Burning Ordinance Policies and Guidelines,” as adopted by
the County Solid Waste Management District Board.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.07 VARIANCES.
   Variances must be obtained from the State Air Pollution Control Board or its
designated agent or agents for the following circumstances:
   (A)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
   (B)   Burning for the purpose of fire training; and
   (C)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation or removal
of natural growth for change in the use of the land.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.08 BURNING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All allowed acts and variances must follow these guidelines (defined
in 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3).
      (1)   Only wood products, or other pre-approved material, may be burned.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished
and all cold.
      (3)   Burning shall occur only in daylight hours, with the exception of
rallies and recreational or ceremonial fires.
      (4)   If a fire creates an air pollution problem, a nuisance, or a fire
hazard, it shall be extinguished.
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions, such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, and the
like.
      (6)   All persons during burning shall have sufficient fire suppression
equipment present.
      (7)   Burning must be in compliance with any state and/or local burn
bans.
   (B)   Any granted variance cannot violate the provisions of 326 I.A.C. 4-1-
3 et seq., as amended, or I.C.13-17-9.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The following shall be authorized enforcement agents in the enforcement of
this subchapter within the limits of the county:
   (A)   Area law enforcement officials serving the county;
   (B)   The County Health Department; and
   (C)   The County Solid Waste Management District.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.10 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agents to evaluate
any report or complaint of a violation of this subchapter for proper
enforcement procedures.
   (B)   Authorized enforcement agents shall provide a written illegal burning
case report of all reported burning violations to the Solid Waste Management
District.
   (C)   The Solid Waste Management District shall be responsible for issuing
the violator a notice of violation for illegal burning and, if necessary,
enforcement of penalties or fines, as set forth herein.
   (D)   (1)   If access to property is granted, the investigation shall
proceed on a voluntary basis. If access is needed to proceed with any
investigation but is denied, the authorized enforcement agents may seek any
necessary authorizations, including a search warrant, to enter the property;
provided, however, in cases of a visible emergency situation, access to
property shall be deemed granted.
      (2)   Any pertinent evidence may be considered to determine whether a
violation of this subchapter has occurred, and the identity of any violator.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a condition violating this subchapter exists on real property, the
authorized enforcement agents may take the following actions.
      (1)   In cases of actions violating this subchapter, a certified notice
of violation shall be issued by the Solid Waste Management District to all
owner(s) of record at their last known mailing address.
      (2)   In cases of an emergency situation, an authorized enforcement
agent, as set forth herein, may take immediate action to suppress the fire. If
action to suppress the fire and bring the property into compliance is taken,
the costs of these actions may be recovered as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with any
authorized enforcement agent while in the performance of his or her duties
hereunder.
   (C)   The owner(s) of property on which illegal burning acts have occurred
may be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation.
   (D)   A notice of subchapter violation shall state the name of the person(s)
to whom the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation, the specific
section of this subchapter that has been violated, the date of the notice, and
the fine imposed, if warranted, for the violation in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (E)   The notice of subchapter violation shall direct the person to whom it
is issued to respond to the Director of the County Solid Waste Management
District, and submit an acceptable clean-up plan, specifying dates, and an
acceptable plan for any future solid waste disposal.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 90.12 INDIRECT LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material(s) which constitutes, or contributes to, a fire causing air pollution
may not refute liability for the violation of this subchapter on the basis that
said fire was set by vandals, accidental, and/or an act of God, pursuant to 326
I.A.C. 4-1.
   (B)   A property owner cannot direct another person to carry out actions in
violation of this subchapter, or knowingly allow another person to carry out
actions in violation of this subchapter, on his or her property.
   (C)   Violating this provision constitutes a violation of the subchapter,
and carries the equivalent sanctions and penalties as the violation.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 90.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as “The Property Maintenance Ordinance,” and may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.26 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the
accumulation of trash, junk, weeds, and vehicles.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.27 AUTHORITY.
   The following shall be authorized enforcement agents in the enforcement of
this subchapter within the unincorporated areas of the county, and their
representatives/agents are hereby authorized to investigate violations and to
perform all actions necessary for the enforcement and administration of this
subchapter, and will be referred to as enforcement agents:
   (A)   Law enforcement officials serving in the county;
   (B)   Health Department;
   (C)   Planning Commission; and
   (D)   Solid Waste Management District.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.28 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more than 48
hours.
      (2)   A vehicle that is mechanically inoperable, and left on private
property continuously in a location visible from public property for more than
20 days.
   ACCUMULATE. As pertaining to junk and trash, means any one of the following.
      (1)   Improperly collecting junk and trash in an inappropriate storage
container.
      (2)   Collecting junk and trash in an accumulation greater than three
cubic yards.
   BUSINESS ZONE. The zones used for business including B-1 Neighborhood
Business Zone, B-2 Rural Business Zone, and B-3 General Business Zone, as
classified in the county zoning ordinance.
   COMPOST. The product produced by the process of composting vegetative
matter, and other types of organic material.
   COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic components of vegetative matter, and other types of
organic material, under controlled conditions to produce a usable product.
   COUNTY. The County of Spencer, State of Indiana.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The County Commissioners, or any person(s) designated as
such by the Commissioners under authority of I.C. 36-7-9-2.
   HIGHWAY or ROAD. The portion of the state or county public highway or road
system so designated on the general highway and transportation map, as amended,
which are kept by the State Department of Transportation and the County Highway
Department.
   JUNK. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials; the term shall
include paper, rags, tin, metals, residue from burning, and household goods,
including, but not limited to, mattresses, furniture, major appliances,
clothing, and other household items not intended for exposure to rain and other
inclement weather.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Vehicles that are inoperable or incapable of movement by their
own locomotion or power, or vehicles without a valid current state registration
and license plate.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONE. The zone used for single-family or multi-family dwellings,
per the county zoning ordinance.
   SECOND VIOLATION. A violation that is committed by a person within two
calendar years of a previous violation.
   SHERIFF. The duly-elected Sheriff of the county, or a duly-appointed Deputy
Sheriff of the County Sheriff’s Department.
   STANDARD CONTAINER. Sturdy, tied plastic bags, or durable metal, plastic, or
similarly constructed container designed for the storage of garbage. Food
scraps and other household trash that attracts animals and/or rodents must be
placed in a vermin-proof and waterproof container with a tight-fitting lid.
   TRASH. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual activity using
the state highway, county road, or his or her own real property.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, bushes, shrubs,
ornamental plants, or agricultural plants cultivated in an orderly manner for
the purpose of producing food and/or feed.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2021-14, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 90.29 TRASH AND JUNK.
   (A)   No person shall permit the accumulation of trash and/or junk:
      (1)   In a Residential or Business Zone, per the county zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Within 100 feet of any single-family residence; or
      (3)   Where such material is visible from any public road or right-of-
way.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for the owner, or anyone
having a substantial property interest in real property, including open or
vacant property, within the county to deposit or allow to remain on that real
property any TRASH or JUNK, as defined in §
90.28, which items might provide food or harborage for insects, rodents, pests,
or pose a fire safety hazard.
   (C)   No person shall permit junk or trash to be situated on his or her
property so that the material can be carried, by wind, to any highway, right-
of-way, easement, or upon the property of any other person.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to apply to county-owned or
operated recycling or salvage operations, or any other operation that is in
compliance with the county zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Nothing in the subchapter shall be deemed to apply to compost and
composting.
   (F)   Nothing in the subchapter shall be deemed to apply to the use of
standard containers or dumpsters for the temporary containment of trash or junk
awaiting disposal. Trash that attracts animals or rodents must be placed in a
vermin-proof and waterproof container with a tight fitting lid. Such containers
shall be constructed, handled, and placed in a way that will not promote a
safety or health issue.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2021-14, passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see
§
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, collection, and disposal, see
Chapter 51
§ 90.30 WEEDS.
   (A)   No person shall permit the growth of grass or weeds in excess of 18
inches in height:
      (1)   In a Residential or Business Zone, per the county zoning ordinance;
or
      (2)   Within 100 feet of any single-family residence.
   (B)   Nothing in the subchapter shall be deemed to apply to agricultural
plants or crops, such as hay and pasture.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2021-14, passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.31 ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, park, or store any junk
or abandoned vehicle(s), or parts thereof, on public or private property if
such vehicle(s), or parts thereof, are not kept in a garage or other enclosure.
   (B)   A vehicle shall not be considered an abandoned or junk vehicle if it
is stored in a garage or other building, or within a fenced area which blocks
the vehicle from being visible.
   (C)   A garage or other building does not include a tarp, plastic sheeting,
or any other similar material or impermanent means that are used to cover a
motor vehicle.
   (D)   A garage or other building, as contemplated in this section, is given
its ordinary meaning.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to apply to
farm machinery.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to apply to
vehicle(s) located within areas that are properly zoned, as defined in the
county zoning ordinance, in which vehicles, or parts of vehicles, are kept,
stored, or parked as an incident to conducting business.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to apply to
vehicle(s) screened by natural objects, plantings, fences, or other appropriate
means so as not to be visible.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of vehicles from county roads during emergency, see §
70.01
§ 90.32 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agent(s) to
evaluate a report or complaint of a violation of this subchapter for proper
enforcement procedures.
   (B)   Authorized enforcement agent(s) shall provide an inspection report to
the Solid Waste Management District and, if feasible, to the property owner.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.33 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Trash and junk. In cases of actions violating §
90.29, a notice of violation shall be issued by the County Solid Waste
Management District requiring the violator to remove and properly dispose of
the trash and/or junk from the premises within 15 days from the date of the
notice.
   (B)   Weeds. In cases of actions violating §
90.30, a notice of violation shall be issued by the County Solid Waste
Management District requiring the violator to cut and/or remove the
accumulation of weeds from the premises within seven days from the date of the
notice.
   (C)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. In cases of actions violating §
90.31, a notice of violation shall be issued by the County Solid Waste
Management District requiring the violator to remove the abandoned and/or junk
vehicle(s) from the premises within 15 days from the date of the notice.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.34 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall be sent a notice of violation, which includes a statement that
the violator must correct the violation and contact the Solid Waste Management
District within five business days from the date of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected as provided in the first notice of
violation, a second notice of violation letter shall be sent pursuant to
provisions provided in division (E) below.
   (C)   The Solid Waste Management District (SWMD) shall be responsible for
issuing the notice of violation.
   (D)   The notice of violation shall state:
      (1)   The date and location of the violation;
      (2)   The nature of the violation;
      (3)   The time period for collecting the violation;
      (4)   The fine and fines for subsequent violation(s);
      (5)   The procedures if the violation is not corrected in the time
specified on the notice of violation;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to contact
regarding the correction of the violation; and
      (7)   The date, time, and location for the hearing before the Hearing
Authority to present evidence and arguments as to why the notice of violation
was issued in error.
   (E)   All notice of violation letters shall be considered properly served by
sending by United States Postal Service (USPS) first class, postage prepaid, to
the last known address of the property owner. The last known address of the
property owner may be the physical location of the property if a structure is
located thereon, or the address maintained by the County Treasurer and County
Auditor for purposes of mailing property tax bills. Notice shall be sent to the
owner of the parcel. If the parcel is occupied by individuals or entities other
than the owner, then notice shall also be sent to the occupant.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 2020-04, passed 7-21-2020)
§ 90.35 HEARING.
   (A)   Per the notice of violation, if the recipient of the notice of
violation believes he or she has received the notice in error, the recipient is
entitled to appear at the hearing before the property maintenance Hearing
Authority to present evidence and arguments as to why the notice of violation
was issued in error.
   (B)   The Hearing Authority can affirm, modify, or rescind the notice of
violation.
   (C)   If the recipient of the notice of violation does not appear at the
hearing, or does not comply with the notice of violation, the County
Commissioners may order that the violation be corrected.
   (D)   If the notice of violation is affirmed or modified by the Hearing
Authority, the recipient has the right, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-8, to appeal
the Hearing Authority’s decision by filing a verified complaint, including the
findings of fact and the action taken by the Hearing Authority with the County
Circuit Court within ten days after the date when the action was taken.
   (E)   The Hearing Authority will issue a report, with all supporting
evidence, to the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.36 ENFORCEMENT BY OTHER MEANS.
   The county may enforce this subchapter through any other means provided by
law, including, but not limited to, I.C. 36-1-6, “The Enforcement of
Ordinances.”
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.37 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The County Commissioners may bring actions in the County Circuit Court
for mandatory or injunctive relief for the enforcement of, and to secure
compliance with, any order, or orders, to otherwise provide for the enforcement
of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined
with an action to recover the penalties, costs, and expenses provided in this
subchapter.
      (2)   In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this
subchapter, the county may seek recovery of costs and expenses reasonably
incurred to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Class C violation. Any person who violates any of the provisions
of §§
90.01 through
90.12, except the burning of noxious materials and/or hazardous materials, and
whose violation is a first violation, commits a Class C violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12. Class C violations have no fines if the person(s) responsible for a
Class C violation shall:
         (a)   Contact the County Solid Waste Management District within the
permitted time on the notice of violation;
         (b)   Pay for the costs of fire-suppression if the Fire Department was
required to extinguish the fire;
         (c)   Provide evidence/receipts that the site of the illegal burn,
including the burn barrel, has been cleaned up and the waste has been properly
disposed, or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs related
to the clean-up; and/or
         (d)   Provide an acceptable plan for any future trash disposal.
      (2)   Class B violation. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
§§
90.01 through
90.12, except the burning of noxious materials and/or hazardous materials, and
whose violation is a second violation, or any other subsequent violation,
commits a Class B violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12. Person(s) responsible for a Class B violation shall:
         (a)   Contact the County Solid Waste Management District within the
permitted time on the notice of violation;
         (b)   Pay a fine of $100, except as provided in division (A)(5)(b)
below;
         (c)   Pay for the cost of fire suppression if the Fire Department was
required to extinguish the fire;
         (d)   Provide evidence/receipts that the site of the illegal burn,
including the burn barrel, has been cleaned up and the waste has been properly
disposed, or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all costs related
to the clean-up; and/or
         (e)   Provide an acceptable plan for any future trash disposal.
      (3)   Class A violation. Any person whose acts violate §§
90.01 through
90.12 by the burning of noxious materials and/or hazardous materials commits a
Class A violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12. Person(s) responsible for a Class A violation shall:
         (a)   Contact the County Solid Waste Management District within the
permitted time on the notice of violation;
         (b)   Pay a fine of $250, except as provided in division (A)(5)(c)
below;
         (c)   Pay for the cost of fire suppression if the Fire Department was
required to extinguish the fire;
         (d)   Provide receipts evidencing all costs related to the clean-up of
the waste and proper disposal of any waste related to the violation, or
reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for all cost related to the clean-
up; and/or
         (e)   Provide an acceptable plan for any future waste disposal.
      (4)   Further action. If further actions in violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 occur, or if no action to bring a property into compliance by the
property owner(s) occurs within the permitted time, litigation may be pursued
in the County Circuit Court or any successor court. The County Attorney, the
Solid Waste Management District Attorney, or a designated agent of these, may
pursue litigation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 in the County Circuit Court or any successor court.
      (5)   Adjudication or admission. Upon adjudication or admission of any
violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 in the County Circuit Court or any successor court, the violator shall be
subject to the following fines and penalties.
         (a)   Any person who has committed a Class C violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall be fined by the court a sum of not less than $100, and not greater
than $500 per violation.
         (b)   Any person who has committed a Class B violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall be fined by the court a sum of not less than $250, and not greater
than $1,000 per violation.
         (c)   Any person who has committed a Class A violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall be fined by the court a sum of not less than $500, and not greater
than $2,500 per violation.
         (d)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.12, whether by admission or adjudication, shall, in addition to any fines as
set forth above, be required to provide an acceptable plan for any future solid
waste disposal, be assessed all costs and expenses of the fire suppression,
investigation, clean-up, and removal of waste connected with the violation, and
shall, in addition, be liable for all reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs,
and other costs incurred by the county or district in connection with the
enforcement of §§
90.01 through
90.12.
         (e)   Failure or refusal to bring property into compliance with §§
90.01 through
90.12 after adjudication of a violation shall constitute a Class A violation of
§§
90.01 through
90.12. Each day a noncompliance continues shall constitute a separate violation
of §§
90.01 through
90.12.
   (B)   (1)   Failure, refusal of owner. Upon the failure of refusal of an
owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession of the premises (who was the
recipient(s) of the notice of violation) to correct the violation of §§
90.25 through
90.37, as stated in the notice of violation, he or she shall be subject to a
$100 fine for a first violation. For the second violation, and subsequent
violation(s) that are committed by a person within two calendar years of a
previous violation, he or she shall be subject to a $200 fine.
      (2)   Removal of trash, junk, or weeds.
         (a)   The County Commissioners may authorize the removal of the trash,
junk, or weeds as listed in the notice of violation. The removal of trash,
junk, or weeds can be performed either by the county’s own workers and
equipment, or by a contractor hired by the Commissioners for this purpose.
         (b)   Compliance with abandoned and/or junk vehicle violations will be
handled by the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (3)   Invoices, payments. The County Auditor’s office shall issue an
invoice to the owner(s) of the property for the total costs incurred by the
county to bring the property into compliance with §§
90.25 through
90.37, plus any fines that have not been paid. Payment is due no later than 30
days following the date of the invoice.
      (4)   Costs incurred. If the fine and the costs incurred by the county
are not paid when due, they may be added to the property taxes and/or be a lien
against the property.
(Ord. 2005-6, passed 9-6-2005; Ord. 2008-14, passed 12-1-2008)
CHAPTER 91: RESERVED
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Inference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.,
as amended; the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended; and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05, 92.06, 92.07, or 92.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families, or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual, or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant, or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined under the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS. Also,
pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include
families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender
identity, or marital status of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under state law.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of, or
addictions to, a CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does
the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non-
incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C.,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010; Ord. 2012-13A, passed 11-20-2012)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09, and of I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the
sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and of I.C.
22-9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to, all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold
or rented:
         (a)   Without the use, in any manner, of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person.
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling, or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling, or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03, and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination, based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or perspective entry,
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin; and
   (F)   (1) To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations, by rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; and
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs;
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms, such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the
American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility
an usability for physically-handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3. above; and
            5.   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity, whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions, to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans, or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization, or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings; and
   (B)   Discriminate against him or her in the terms or conditions, of such
access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 INFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05, or
92.06.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Subject to the fines in §
92.99(B) include whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force, or
threat of force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or
attempts to injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person, because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is, or has
been, selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person, or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; and
      (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen, or any other citizen, from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
92.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined, or set forth, under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization,
operated, supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious
organization, association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race,
color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodging to its members, or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter, and referral of complaints hereunder, to the Commissioner, as set
forth in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of
the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief Elected Official
of the county shall refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided
for under division (A) above, to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief, as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the county, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.08 shall be fined according to local, state, and federal law; and if bodily
injury results, shall be fined not more than $2,500 for the first violation,
and $7,500 for second or subsequent violations, or imprisoned not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years, or for life.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 3-29-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
114.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT; SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Registration of solid waste haulers
   
110.02   Installer of utilities certification
   
110.03   Transient merchants, peddlers; regulations, licensing
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 REGISTRATION OF SOLID WASTE HAULERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to haul solid waste
material that originates in the county without first having completed and filed
with the County Solid Waste Management District the necessary registration
forms.
   (B)   SOLID WASTE HAULER shall mean any owner or operator of a solid waste
hauling company, independent contractor, or private individual which provides
solid waste disposal service to the county, or which benefits residents,
businesses, or others which reside or do business in the county.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall not apply to any person hauling or
transporting waste which originates from the hauler’s own property or business,
unless the hauling of such waste requires the owner or operator to use a rear
loader commercial type vehicle, front end loader commercial type vehicle, roll
off, or transfer type commercial vehicle.
      (2)   The owner or operator of the above described transfer-type
commercial vehicle shall be a solid waste hauler, whether or not said owner or
operator receives compensation for providing such service.
   (D)   Any county governmental subdivision and its employees, including any
city or town, shall not be considered a solid waste hauler when hauling,
transporting, or disposing of solid waste for, and on behalf of, such
subdivision.
   (E)   (1)   All solid waste haulers shall be required annually to register
and obtain a permit before providing solid waste hauling, transportation, or
disposal services within the County Solid Waste Management District. Said
permit shall be obtained from the County Solid Waste Management District
office.
      (2)   The solid waste hauler shall provide the following information on
the registration form provided by the Solid Waste Management District:
         (a)   The hauler’s full name;
         (b)   Address;
         (c)   Daytime phone number;
         (d)   Emergency phone number;
         (e)   Designated responsible person to be in contact with concerning
the hauler’s day-to-day operations;
         (f)   General location of the waste hauler; and
         (g)   Route designation of various areas served within the waste
disposal district and, where possible, maps of service territories.
      (3)   The route and map information may be forwarded to the County
Highway Department for its use.
      (4)   In addition, the hauler shall be required to file a report each
calendar quarter with the Solid Waste Management District indicating the total
tonnage of recyclables processed, the tonnage of municipal waste collected, and
the final disposal site.
   (F)   The Solid Waste Management District shall be entitled to impose a
reasonable fee for the issuance of an annual permit to defray the cost of its
issuance and the record keeping requirements associated therewith, which fee
shall be $15 per permittee regardless of how many vehicles any one permittee
may operate in the county.
   (G)   A permit license issued pursuant to this section shall run from
January 1 through December 31 of the same year.
   (H)   Any permittee operating a vehicle subject to this section shall boldly
display on the back and sides of each such vehicle operated in the county the
name of the permittee in letters not less than four inches high.
   (I)   (1)   Drivers of all vehicles subject to this section shall cause the
contents of such vehicles to be adequately confined during conveyance so as to
prevent littering.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the drivers of any waste hauling vehicle
to allow the contents thereof to spill upon any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1999-08, passed 6-1-1999) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 INSTALLER OF UTILITIES CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall construct, install, replace, or repair any part
of any on-site sewage disposal system in the county until the person is
certified by the County Health Department as a certified installer for the type
of system to be installed.
      (2)   In order to become certified, an individual must do all of the
following:
         (a)   File an application for certification accompanied by an annual
fee;
         (b)   Present a certificate of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in the state showing coverage for the entire term of the
certificate. The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons for
whom faulty work may be performed, for a minimum of $100,000;
         (c)   Demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, and
regulations before becoming certified by passing a proficiency examination
conducted by the County Health Department; and
         (d)   Comply with continuing education requirements of at least three
hours each year as approved by the County Health Department.
      (3)   (a)   Certificates issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of
one year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year, and
shall be renewed annually.
         (b)   The certification shall bear the name of the certified
installer, the expiration date, and signature of the Environmental Health
Regulator, and shall not be transferable.
         (c)   Any certification that is not renewed within one year of the
expiration date shall be considered void, and the installer must re-apply for
certification and pass the proficiency test.
      (4)   If an installer has passed the certification exam, complies with
the continuing education requirements of three hours per year thereafter, and
renews annually the certification, then no recertification test will be
required for renewal of the certification.
      (5)   The installer shall maintain, in his or her possession, a copy of
the certification at all times when installing on-site soil absorption systems.
      (6)   A certified installer shall be on the site at all times during
construction, and shall be deemed responsible for the installation. A certified
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the installation.
      (7)   A property owner wishing to install, repair, or otherwise work on
the on-site sewage disposal system serving his or her own dwelling shall be
required to demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, and
regulations by taking the proficiency exam conducted by the Health Department.
   (B)   On and after the passage of this section, each utility company serving
the residents of the county shall require a copy of the potential customer’s
building permit or special exception grant prior to providing utility service.
(Ord. 79-1, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-4-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS; REGULATIONS, LICENSING.
   (A)   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person, other than those
expressly excluded from the operation of this section, not operating an
established place of business or selling produce regularly to some established
business, within the confines of the county, to solicit, peddle, sell, offer to
sell, take orders for the sale of, or in any other form or manner attempt to
sell, barter, or dispose of any wares, produce, merchandise, gadget, item, or
thing of any kind or character, within said confines of the county, without
first having obtained a license so to do in the form and manner, and from the
authority hereafter prescribed.
   (B)   Such license referred to in division (A) above may be issued to any
person or organization upon application therefor made to the Auditor or
Commissioners of the county, which officials may, in their sole discretion,
issue or refuse to issue such license.
   (C)   The license fee for a transient merchant license shall be set at $50
for each six-month period in which the applicant proposes to transact business.
   (D)   All war veterans organizations, public school associations, wholesale
distributor, churches having established weekly church services, schools, and
nonprofit organizations may be exempted from the operation of this section upon
prior written approval obtained from the County Commissioners or County
Auditor.
   (E)   All farmers and truck farmers residing within the county may sell
their farm produce or products, grown and produced by them outside of the
confines of any incorporated town or city, without obtaining said license.
(Ord. 78-2, passed 8-1-1978; Res. 1999-6, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The doing of any prohibited act, or the omission of any required act
governed by §
110.01 is declared to be a violation of §
110.01. Any person found to have violated §
110.01 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined in an amount up to
$2,500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate violation. If a
person is found to have violated §
110.01 by a court of competent jurisdiction, the court can award reasonable
attorney’s fees from the violator for the necessity of prosecuting an action.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
110.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $25 for each
of such violations so committed.
   (2)   Any utility company who violates any of the provisions of §
110.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $10, and not more than $300, for each offense, such fine to inure
to the county. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 78-2, passed 8-1-1978; Ord. 79-1, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 1999-08, passed
6-1-1999)
CHAPTER 111: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   License requirements, procedure for issuance, fees, exemptions
   
111.03   Minimum requirements
   
111.04   Sale, examination, and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated, or
misbranded food
   
111.05   Food establishment inspection, correction of violations; revocation of
license
   
111.06   Temporary suspension of license
   
111.07   Inspection of temporary/mobile food establishment
   
111.08   Submission, approval of plans for construction or alteration of a food
establishment, pre-operation inspection
   
111.09   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is pertaining to restaurants, retail food stores, bed and
breakfast establishments, temporary food establishments, mobile food
establishments, push carts, commissaries, vending machines, and other food
service establishments; requires fees for inspection of food establishments;
prohibits sale of adulterated, unwholesome, or misbranded food; regulates
inspection of such establishments; and provides for the State Department of
Health rules to apply to such establishments in the county.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-19-2004)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE, FEES, EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a food establishment, bed
and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food
establishment, or push cart in the county who does not possess a valid license
from the Health Department.
   (B)   Such license may be provided by the County Health Department if a
completed application is presented.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of rules
adopted by the State Department of Health in the Indiana Administrative Code
shall be entitled to retain such a license.
   (D)   The licenses for a food establishment shall be for a term of one year,
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the calendar year. The fee for
the license shall be due and payable in full prior to issuance or renewal of
any license. Failure to apply for renewal of a license and payment of the
license fee on or before December 31 of a license year shall result in
automatic termination of the license to operate after the end of that calendar
year. In addition to other available remedies, a fine of $50 per day shall be
imposed for operating without a license. All fines must be paid prior to
issuance of a new license.
   (E)   The fee for a new food establishment shall be prorated as follows.
      (1)   A person obtaining a license prior to July 1 shall pay the full
amount of the regular annual license fee.
      (2)   A person obtaining a license on or after July 1 shall pay half of
the regular annual license fee.
   (F)   A separate license shall be required for each food establishment, bed
and breakfast establishment, mobile food establishment, or push cart operated,
or to be operated, by any person.
   (G)   No new license shall be issued, and no license shall be renewed, until
all outstanding fines and fees are paid in full.
   (H)   Any license issued by the Health Department shall contain the name of
the person to whom the license is granted, and any such pertinent data as may
be required by the Health Department. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the food establishment.
   (I)   (1)   A license is not transferable to another location or to another
person. In the event of a change of ownership by conveyance, sale contract,
lease, or other means, the current license shall become void and a new license
shall be required. A license shall not be issued to a food establishment under
new ownership until it is in full compliance with all applicable state and
local laws.
      (2)   In the event the Health Department is not notified of a change of
ownership of a food establishment, a license for the next year shall not be
issued until:
         (a)   The food establishment is in full compliance with all applicable
state and local laws; and
         (b)   All outstanding fines and fees are paid for in full.
   (J)   No license shall be required, and no fee for services shall be paid,
for a food establishments operated by religious, educational, or charitable
organizations. However, such establishments shall comply with the other
provisions of this chapter, and are subject to inspection and approval by the
Health Officer or authorized representative.
   (K)   An organization that is exempt from the state’s gross income tax as a
state not-for-profit organization, and that offers food for sale to the final
consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization, is exempt from
complying with the requirements of this chapter that may be imposed upon the
sale of food at that event if:
      (1)   A copy of the tax exempt certification form shall be provided as
proof to the County Health Department to be kept on file;
      (2)   Members of the organization prepare the food that will be sold;
      (3)   Events conducted by the organization under this section take place
for no more than 30 days in any calendar year; and
      (4)   The name of each member who has prepared a food item is attached to
the container in which the food item has been placed.
   (L)   This section does not prohibit an exempted organization from waiving
the exemption and applying for a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-19-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All food establishments, bed and breakfast establishments, and vending
machines shall comply with the minimum requirements of State Department of
Health Rules governing said establishment as found in the Indiana
Administrative Code, and as those rules may be adopted, amended, or revised
from time to time.
   (B)   All food establishments and bed and breakfast establishments may be
required to attend a food service training as required by the County Health
Department. Notice of any required food service training shall be given by the
County Health Department at least 14 days in advance by delivering a written
notice by first class mail.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-19-2004)
§ 111.04 SALE, EXAMINATION, AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED, OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food
establishment, mobile food establishment, temporary food establishment, bed and
breakfast establishment, or vending machine, any food which is unwholesome,
adulterated, or misbranded, as provided in the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
I.C. 16-42-1-1 through 16-42-1-35.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Inspector as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration, or misbranding. The Health Inspector may impound and forbid the
sale of any food which is unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded, or which he
or she has probable cause to believe is unfit for human consumption,
unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded; provided, that in the case of
misbranding, which can be corrected by proper labeling, such food may be
released to the operator for correct labeling under the supervision of the
Health Inspector. The Health Inspector may also cause to be removed or
destroyed any dairy products, meat, meat product, seafood, poultry, poultry
product, confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit, or other perishable
articles which, in the Health Inspector’s opinion, are unsound or contain any
filthy, decomposed, or putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or
deleterious to health, or otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 FOOD ESTABLISHMENT INSPECTION, CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS; REVOCATION OF
LICENSE.
   (A)   The Health Inspector may inspect each food establishment at whatever
frequency the Health Inspector determines appropriate, under the provisions of
this chapter, and the state code and applicable regulations.
   (B)   The person operating the food establishment or mobile food
establishment shall, upon the request of the Health Inspector, permit the
Health Inspector access to all parts of such food establishment or mobile food
establishment and shall permit the Health Department to collect evidence and
exhibits, and to copy any or all records relative to the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (C)   If, during the inspection of any food establishment, the Health
Inspector discovers the violation of any of the requirements of this chapter or
the state code, a written inspection report listing such violations shall be
issued to the proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge,
and fixing a time within which the proprietor of the food establishment shall
abate and remedy such violations. A copy of the written inspection report shall
be filed with the records of the Health Department. In addition, the Health
Inspector may order the temporary suspension of any license in accordance with
the terms in §
111.06.
   (D)   If, upon a return inspection, the Health Inspector finds that such
food establishment, person, or employee is in violation any of the provisions
of this chapter which were in violation on the previous inspection, and
concerning which a written inspection report was issued, the Health Inspector
may elect one of the following remedies:
      (1)   Issue an immediate, temporary suspension of his or her license,
pursuant to the terms of §
111.06;
      (2)   Issue a written order to the owner of the food operation to appear
at a certain time, no later than ten days from the date of inspection, and at a
place in the county fixed in the order to show cause why the license issued
under the provision of §
111.01 should not be revoked; or
      (3)   Furnish evidence of the violation(s) to the County Prosecutor for
prosecution of violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If, at the administrative hearing, the owner or person in charge
should fail to show cause as to why his or her license should not be suspended
or revoked, the Health Department shall suspend or revoke the license of such
food establishment of such action to the owner or person in charge. The Health
Department shall maintain a permanent record of its proceedings, which shall be
filed in the office of the Health Department.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 111.06 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any license issued under this chapter may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Department without notice or hearing after an initial
or subsequent inspection for a period not to exceed 30 days for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   An imminent health hazard, in which the food establishment shall
immediately cease food service operations. Operations shall not be resumed
until authorized by the Health Department;
         (b)   Insanitary or other conditions which, in the Health Inspector’s
opinion, endanger the public’s health;
         (c)   Interference with the Health Inspector in performance of his or
her duties; and
         (d)   Undue harassment of the Health Department Inspector in the
performance of duties.
      (2)   Upon written application from the owner, or from the person in
charge, served upon the Health Department within 30 days after the suspension,
the Health Officer will conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least
five days written notice of the time, place, and purpose thereof to the
suspended owner; provided, further, that any suspension order shall be issued
by the Health Department, in writing, and served upon the owner by leaving a
copy at his or her usual place of business, or by delivery of registered or
certified mail.
   (B)   Any person whose license has been suspended may, at any time, make
application to the Health Department for the reinstatement of his or her
license.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 111.07 INSPECTION OF TEMPORARY/MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   At least once in each 24-hour period the Health Department may inspect
each temporary food establishment, or at whatever frequency determined
appropriate, under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If, during the inspection of any temporary food establishment, the
Health Department discovers the violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, the Health Inspector may order the immediate correction of the
violations.
   (C)   Upon failure of any person maintaining or operating a temporary food
establishment to comply with any order of the Health Department, the Health
Department may summarily forbid the further sale or serving of food therein,
and require said food establishment be removed from the premises at that time.
Failure by the person operating the food establishment to comply may result in
referral to a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 111.08 SUBMISSION, APPROVAL OF PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF A FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, PRE-OPERATION INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a food establishment or mobile food establishment is
constructed or extensively remodeled, or whenever an existing structure is
converted for use as a food establishment or mobile food establishment properly
prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling, or
conversion shall be submitted to the Health Department before construction,
remodeling, or conversion is begun.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans, and construction material of work areas, and the
type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities.
      (3)   The Health Department shall approve the plans and specification if
they meet the requirements of this chapter. No food establishment or mobile
food establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted
except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Health
Department.
   (B)   When plans and specifications required by this section are to be
submitted to the Health Department, the Health Department shall inspect the
food establishment or mobile food establishment prior to the start of
operations to determine compliance with the approved plans and specifications,
and with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 111.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Health Department, with the assistance
of the County Attorney, or his or her appointed deputies, and, in appropriate
cases, by the County Prosecuting Attorney.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any civil penalty that may be otherwise imposed by this
chapter, or under state law, any person who violates any provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. A person who commits a
Class B misdemeanor may be fined not more than $1,000.
   (B)   The Health Inspector, pursuant to §
111.05, may issue a written citation, and assess a fine in the amount of $50
for each continuing violation. Each day of operation in violation of the
provisions of §
111.05 shall constitute a distinct or separate offense. Upon correction of the
repeated violation, the County Health Department must be notified so the fine
does not continue to accrue.
(Ord. 1998-06, passed 4-6-1998)
CHAPTER 112: BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Authority, applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Body art establishments, body artists subject to regulation
   
112.04   License requirements
   
112.05   Inspections
   
112.06   Body artist, body art establishment responsibilities
   
112.07   Body artist minimum training, certification requirements
   
112.08   Minimum standards for all body art establishments
   
112.09   Patron records
   
112.10   Body art on minors
   
112.11   Prohibited body art
   
112.12   Hand washing/sink requirements
   
112.13   Personal protective equipment
   
112.14   Body art equipment
   
112.15   Needles
   
112.16   Reusable equipment requiring sterilization
   
112.17   Dyes or pigments
   
112.18   Work environment
   
112.19   Infectious waste containment
   
112.20   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
   
112.21   Post body art infection prevention
   
112.22   Effect of state regulations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of Home Rule Law (I.C. 36-1-3)
and I.C. 35-45-21-4(f). This chapter shall not apply to any person licensed
under I.C. 25-22.5 as a physician, or under I.C. 25-14 as a dentist, or a
person acting under the direction and control of such persons.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   HBV;
      (2)   HCV; and/or
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment by permitted
establishments and operators using, but not limited to, the following
techniques: body piercing; tattooing; cosmetic tattooing; branding; cutting;
ink rubbing; and scarification. This definition does not include practices that
are considered medical or dental procedures by a state medical or dental board,
such as implants under the skin, which shall not be performed in a body art
establishment. Nor does this definition include piercing of the outer perimeter
or lobe of the ear with presterilized, single-use, stud-and-clasp ear-piercing
systems.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any room or space where body art is performed, or
where the business of body art is conducted.
   BODY ART OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or
owns any body art establishment.
   BODY ARTIST. Any person who performs body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic
tattooing, branding, and scarification on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part, other than ear lobes,
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration, or for some other
nonmedical purpose.
   BRANDING. Involves burning a design into the skin.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence, or reasonably anticipated presence, of blood or
other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) on an item or surface.
   COSMETIC TATTOOING. Applied in a process known by a variety of names,
including micropigmentation, micropigment implantation, permanent cosmetics,
and dermal pigmentation. All of these names describe the process of implanting
pigment into the dermal layer of the skin by various methods. This shall not
include COSMETIC TATTOOING or permanent makeup applied with lasers.
   CUTTING. A design cut into the skin with a surgical scalpel or other sharp
instrument that usually produces a fine scar. Different forms of coloring can
be rubbed into a fresh CUTTING, resulting in a colored scar called INK RUBBING,
as defined in this section.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy blood borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles, and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly-appointed Health Officer, as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2-16. The County Health Officer, or his or her designee, shall be authorized
to enforce this chapter. The HEALTH OFFICER may designate a representative in
the Health Department to perform those duties and responsibilities of the
HEALTH OFFICER.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps, or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals,
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and/or
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INK RUBBING. Different forms of coloring that can be rubbed into a fresh
cutting, resulting in a colored scar called an INK RUBBING.
   IOSHA BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS STANDARD. “Indiana Occupational Safety and
Health Administrations Blood Borne Pathogen Standards,” which is currently
found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM.
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and/or
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin from a human,
living or dead.
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing
medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SCARIFICATION. A general name for various forms of body art that result in a
scar on the skin.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designed and maintained to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD or BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood or blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores and viruses.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   (a)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or
other mark placed with the aid of needles or other instruments, upon or under
the skin.
         (b)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring
upon or under the skin.
      (2)   Shall not include application of permanent makeup by use of lasers.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. A surgical procedure by which a human tongue is cut or
split by any means into two or more parts.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other blood-borne pathogens.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.03 BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS, BODY ARTISTS SUBJECT TO REGULATION.
   (A)   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer to affix any type
of permanent body art to a person shall be, in all respects, regulated by, and
comply with, the terms of this chapter, and shall maintain the premises in
which body art is performed, and equipment used in the body art process, in a
sanitary manner.
   (B)   To that end, no person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate a business that offers body art services, unless the County
Health Department has approved the business, under 410 I.A.C. 1-5 and this
chapter;
      (2)   Perform a body art procedure without being licensed to do so under
this chapter;
      (3)   Perform a body art procedure outside of a body art establishment
with a valid license pursuant to this chapter;
      (4)   Perform a body art procedure in a manner that does not meet the
safety and sanitation standards established under 410 I.A.C. 1-5 and this
chapter; and/or
      (5)   Perform a body art procedure in a manner that does not meet the
standards for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of invasive equipment,
or parts of equipment, used in performing the procedures established by this
chapter, and under 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Inspection and approval by the Health Department. No license for a
body art establishment, or body artist, shall be issued unless, following
reasonable investigation by the Department, the applicant has demonstrated
compliance with the provisions of this section and all other provisions of this
chapter. All licenses shall be conditioned upon continued compliance with the
provisions of this section, as well as all applicable provisions of this
chapter. All licenses shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous area where
clients may readily observe them.
   (B)   License application. Each application for a license shall include:
      (1)   Name, date of birth, sex, residence, mailing address, phone number,
place(s) of employment, training and/or experience, proof of the applicant’s
attendance at a blood-borne pathogen training program (or equivalent), and
approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Demonstration of knowledge of infectious disease control, including
waste disposal, washing techniques, sterilizing equipment operation and
methods, and sanitation/disinfection/sterilization methods and techniques, and
facility safety and sanitation. Knowledge of the above subjects may also be
demonstrated through submission of documentation of attendance/completion of
courses (examples of courses approved by the Department include preventing
disease transmission (American Red Cross) and blood-borne pathogen training
(U.S. OSHA). Training and courses, provided by professional body art
organizations/associations or by equipment manufacturers, may also be submitted
for consideration.
   (C)   Insurance. Before the County Health Department shall issue a license
under this chapter, the licensee shall file with the County Health Department a
certificate of insurance. The certificate of insurance shall certify that a
policy of insurance has been issued to the body art establishment and provides
professional liability coverage to the operator, and all body artists at the
establishment, for the period of the license, and is in full force and effect,
and that the premium has been paid thereon. The policy of insurance shall be in
the sum of no less than $500,000 conditioned for the payment of any judgments
received against the body art establishment operator or body artist for the
death or injury of persons caused by the operation of a body art establishment
or body artist.
   (D)   Terms of license. Every license issued hereunder shall be for a period
lasting from the date of issuance through the end of the calendar year of
issuance. No license is transferable.
   (E)   Body art establishment license. Each body art establishment shall
obtain a license therefor from the County Health Department. The applicant
shall provide the following information on the application for a license:
      (1)   The name and address of the establishment;
      (2)   Name and address of all owners if a sole proprietor or partnership;
      (3)   Names and addresses of all persons owning 10% or more interest in
the establishment if the proposed licensee is a business entity other than a
sole proprietor or partnership; and
      (4)   Name and address of the manager, or person responsible for the
operation of the establishment.
   (F)   Application fees. An application fee must be submitted prior to
issuance of a license. The amount of each application fee shall be established
by formal action of the Board of the County Health Department. A new
application for said license shall be required each year for renewal, along
with the application fee.
   (G)   Body artist license.
      (1)   Every person desiring to perform any body art shall obtain a body
artist license from the Department prior to performing any body art. The
license shall be posted in the body art establishment where the body art is
performed, and shall be clearly visible to the public.
      (2)   In the event the body art establishment is a sole proprietorship,
the business license is obtained as provided above, and if only the owner
performs body art at that location, the sole proprietor shall not be required
to obtain a body artist license. The sole proprietor shall only be required to
obtain body art establishment license.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of every body
art establishment located in the county. The Health Department shall conduct a
minimum of one inspection per year.
   (B)   The Health Department may conduct additional inspections as they
determine necessary, or in response to complaints submitted. The results of the
inspections shall be provided to each operator.
   (C)   Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected
immediately.
   (D)   The Department shall conduct follow up inspections to determine
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.06 BODY ARTIST, BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each body art establishment shall comply with the following training
responsibilities:
      (1)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s blood-borne pathogens standard (currently found in
29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all body artists, anyone employed by the
body art establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the establishment who
has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
      (2)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is
provided to all body artists, anyone employed by the body art establishment,
and anyone acting on behalf of the establishment who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
blood or OPIM;
      (3)   Ensure that a record of training, described in division (A)(1)
above, is maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and
Health Administration’s blood-borne pathogens standard (currently found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is
provided. The record shall be made available to the Health Department for
inspection upon request; and
      (4)   Ensure that a record of training, described in subdivision (A)(2)
above, is maintained.
   (B)   The body art establishment shall ensure that all body artists, anyone
employed by the body art establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the
establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM, are provided personal
protective equipment and expendables needed to implement the precautions
required by this chapter and the IOSHA’s blood-borne pathogen standard.
   (C)   The body art establishment shall require all body artists, anyone
employed by the body art establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the
establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM, to provide evidence or
compliance with universal precautions training requirements contained in §
112.07.
   (D)   The body art establishment shall display written materials prepared or
approved by the Health Department explaining universal precautions and patron’s
rights under this chapter. These materials shall include information on how to
report violations of universal precautions, and shall include information
regarding the Department’s duties to investigate.
   (E)   The body art establishment shall ensure that no illegal drugs or
alcohol are consumed or permitted in the body art establishment.
   (F)   The body art establishment shall develop a written policy in
compliance with this chapter and the requirements of the IOSHA’s blood-borne
pathogen standard that:
      (1)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing body art
and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated skin, eye,
mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
      (2)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
      (3)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if
warranted, for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious
waste safely.
   (G)   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of a
body art establishment and available for inspection by the Department:
      (1)   Full name, date of birth, gender, home address, home/work phone
numbers, and identification photos of all body art operators, body artists, and
other employees;
      (2)   For each individual listed in division (G)(1) above, a detailed job
description;
      (3)   Establishment name, hours of operation, and the owner’s name and
address;
      (4)   A complete description of all procedures performed;
      (5)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps, and
all inks used for any and all body art procedures, including names of
manufacturers and serial or lot numbers, if available, or as applicable; and
      (6)   A copy of this chapter.
   (H)   Licenses of all body artists and the body art establishment shall be
prominently displayed in the body art establishment, and shall not be defaced
or altered in any manner.
   (I)   The manager or operator of each body art establishment must be a
minimum of 18 years of age.
   (J)   The body art establishment and body artists shall refuse service to
any person who, in the opinion of the operator, is under the influence of
alcohol or drugs.
   (K)   The body artist shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness,
conform to hygienic practices, and wear clean clothes when performing body art
procedures.
   (L)   In performing body art procedures, the body artist shall wear
disposable medical gloves. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum, after
the completion of each procedure on an individual client.
   (M)   If, while performing a body art procedure, the body artist’s gloves
are pierced, torn, or otherwise contaminated, the contaminated gloves shall be
immediately discarded and the hands washed thoroughly before a fresh pair of
gloves are applied. Any item or other instrument used for body art, which is
contaminated during the procedure, shall be discarded and replaced immediately
with new ones before the procedure resumes.
   (N)   CONTAMINATED or INFECTIOUS WASTE, as defined in §
112.02, shall be handled as described below in §§
112.19 and
112.20. Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps
containers. Contaminated waste, which does not release liquid blood or body
fluids when compressed or does not release dried blood or body fluids when
handled, may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of through normal,
approved disposal methods.
   (O)   Any skin or mucosa surface to receive a body art procedure shall be
free of rash, infection, or any other visible pathological condition.
   (P)   (1)   The skin of the body artist shall be free of rash, infection, or
any other visible pathological condition.
      (2)   No person or operator affected with boils, infected wounds, open
sores, impetigo, scabies, abrasions, exudative lesions, draining or open skin
infections, acute respiratory infection, productive cough, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, fever, jaundice, or any other symptoms of acute disease shall work in
any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in which there is a
likelihood of contaminating body art equipment, supplies, or working surfaces
with pathogenic organisms.
   (Q)   Each body artist and body art operator should be able to provide the
following information, upon request of the Department.
      (1)   Each body artist and body art operator has either completed, or
been offered and declined, in writing, the hepatitis B vaccination series.
      (2)   Antibody testing has revealed that the employee is immune to
hepatitis B.
      (3)   The vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 BODY ARTIST MINIMUM TRAINING, CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All body artists, anyone employed by the body art establishment, and anyone
acting on behalf of the establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall
complete the following training prior to engaging in any activity related to
performance of a body procedure, or otherwise being employed in or around a
body art establishment, and annually thereafter.
   (A)   A blood-borne pathogen training session conducted by the American Red
Cross meeting the requirements of the IOSHA’s blood borne pathogens standard.
   (B)   A CPR and basic first aid class certified by the American Red Cross.
   (C)   The body art establishment’s policies on handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The following procedures, practices, and rules shall apply to any body art
establishment offering body art.
   (A)   Body art on any person under 18 years of age will be permitted only
with a legal guardian present, and must comply with §
112.10. Both parties must provide valid identification. Both parties must fully
understand post body art aftercare suggestions.
   (B)   Body art on an obviously intoxicated person is prohibited.
   (C)   The use of properly configured, autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items is mandatory. Monthly efficacy testing, via a spore test, is
mandatory; “dry” heat, glass bead, or pressure cookers are not acceptable
methods of sterilization.
   (D)   All counter tops, displays, or doorknobs must be non-porous and
frequently disinfected throughout the day, and as needed.
   (E)   An understanding of, and vigilant use of, cross-contamination
prevention and infection control must be documented.
   (F)   Thorough hand washing, utilizing sufficient amounts of soap and hot,
running water, must be performed immediately prior and immediately after each
individual service. Single-use, disposable paper products are to be used.
   (G)   New, clean, and fresh disposable medical gloves are to be worn for
each new service. Gloves must be changed after each occurrence of
contamination. Gloves should be stored in a very clean, closed container when
not in use.
   (H)   All needles must be individually bagged and autoclave sterilized, used
on one client, and one client only, and immediately disposed of in an OSHA-
approved sharps container. Removal of full (two-third’s), sealed, labeled
containers, by a medical waste disposal service, which follows State Infectious
Waste Rule (410 I.A.C. 1-3), must be documented.
   (I)   After soaking in an enzymatic detergent such as Enzol (or its
equivalent) for no less than ten minutes, used reusable tools must be
thoroughly cleaned.
   (J)   All reusable, stainless steel instruments must be autoclaved in
appropriate, dated, sealed bags with indicator strips fully visible.
Immediately after use, the tool is to be placed in a lidded, non-porous
container to await detergent soak, cleaning, drying, and bagging, prior to
autoclaving. This container must be disinfected at least daily.
   (K)   A hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant must be employed on all
involved surfaces prior to every individual’s body art session. All involved
surfaces must be non-porous and in excellent condition.
   (L)   All supplies that come into contact with the body art station should
be in “single portion” form and stored in very clean, closed containers.
   (M)   All jewelry is to be made of high quality 14k solid gold, surgical
grade stainless steel (316L series), niobium, titanium, platinum, or inert
plastics.
   (N)   Sterilized items in unopened bags must be left in the autoclave to
dry. The door on the autoclave may be left slightly ajar to facilitate drying.
Once dry, using clean and fresh gloves, bagged tools must be placed in a very
clean, closed container.
   (O)   Hand washing and sink requirements referred to in §
112.12.
   (P)   Privacy screens or devices must be made available at the patron’s
request.
   (Q)   All restrooms available to the public must be kept clean and
disinfected regularly, and as needed.
   (R)   Written post-body art aftercare instructions must be provided to each
patron.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   All body artists and body art establishments shall maintain records of
each patron for two years.
   (B)   The record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Patron’s address;
      (3)   Patron’s age. Age must be verified by two items of identification,
one of which must be a valid government issued identification;
      (4)   Date body art was performed;
      (5)   Design of the body art;
      (6)   Location of the body art on the patron’s body;
      (7)   The name of the body artist who performed the work; and
      (8)   Parental consent must be maintained, in writing, when performed on
any person under 18 years of age, as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 BODY ART ON MINORS.
   (A)   No person shall perform body art on a person who is less than 18 years
of age except as permitted by law.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any act of a health care professional
(as defined in I.C. 16-27-2-1) licensed under I.C. 25 when the act is performed
in the course of the health care professional’s practice.
   (C)   A person may provide body art to a person who is less than 18 years of
age if a parent or legal guardian of the person receiving the body art:
      (1)   Is present at the time the body art is provided; and
      (2)   Provides written permission for the person to receive the body art.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 PROHIBITED BODY ART.
   The following types of body art shall not be performed by any body artist or
body art establishment in the county:
   (A)   Any practice considered a medical or dental procedure by the state
statute, regulation, or medical or dental licensing board; and/or
   (B)   TONGUE SPLITTING, as defined in §
112.02.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 HAND WASHING/SINK REQUIREMENTS.
   Each body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities must be provided with hot and cold running
water and wrist, elbow, infrared, or foot-operated fixtures, and shall be
readily accessible in the same room where body art is provided. This sink is
never to be used for food or drink preparation.
   (B)   A sink with hot and cold running water must be provided for the
preparation, cleaning, and disinfection of tools and equipment. This sink must
be located in a dedicated area separated from the body art room at least by a
permanent partition. This sink may not be located in a bathroom or a room with
a toilet.
   (C)   A hand washing facility must be readily accessible in the dedicated
area provided for the preparation, cleaning, and disinfection of tools and
equipment. The hand washing facility must be provided with hot and cold running
water and wrist, elbow, infrared, or foot-operated fixtures. This sink is never
to be used for food or drink preparation.
   (D)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (E)   Only disposable, single-use towels shall be used.
   (F)   A service/mop sink must be provided with hot and cold running water,
and is to be separated from the above areas.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.13 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield or chin length face shield shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the body art process. Gloves
shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in
the application of the tattoo or piercing process, when the gloves become torn
or punctured, or whenever that ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.14 BODY ART EQUIPMENT.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the proposed site of the
body art. Single-use razors shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately
after use. Razors should not be bent or broken, or otherwise manipulated prior
to disposal.
   (B)   The stencil for transferring a design to the skin is to be single-use
only, and shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.15 NEEDLES.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use;
   (B)   Needles shall be single-use only;
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in a sharp container immediately after use;
and
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent, broken, or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.16 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT REQUIRING STERILIZATION.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, non-disposable equipment is sterilized. Equipment used for the piercing
of ears, which cannot tolerate heating procedures, may be sterilized using a
technique that is approved by the Health Officer.
   (B)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
   (C)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual, and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (D)   Reusable, contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach, by hand, into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (E)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
      (2)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol;
      (3)   Leak proof on both sides and bottom; and
      (4)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning, prior to sterilization.
   (F)   Contaminated, reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (G)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before use.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.17 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments used for body art shall be from professional
suppliers specifically providing dyes or pigments for use on human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by body artists, only
nontoxic sterile materials shall be used. Single-use individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After the procedure, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use
or individual containers shall be discarded, along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.18 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   No body art shall be conducted in any room used as living quarters, in
any room that opens directly in living or sleeping quarters, or in mobile or
temporary units.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where body art is being
conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; and
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially-blind persons;
         (c)   Physically-disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide-dog trainers; and
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, handling contact lenses, and applying
cosmetics or lip balm shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a
likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in work areas where there is a
reasonable anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
has been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Nonabsorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Chips;
         (d)   Pits; and
         (e)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration by volume (common household
bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated and shall
not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in a
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant container, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol and effectively treated in
accordance with this chapter prior to being stored in an unsecured area, and
sent for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are not contaminated sharps, or objects that
could potentially become contaminated sharps, shall be placed in containers
that meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this chapter prior to being
placed in an unsecured area, and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently-displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied, unless the surfaces or the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable lines, bags, or other devices that are removed
with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   All body artists shall ensure that infectious waste from any body art
procedure is either treated on-site, in accordance with this chapter, or
transported off-site for treatment, in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities
of infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this chapter.
      (2)   Effective treatment may include:
         (a)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate
infectious waste;
         (b)   Steam sterilization;
         (c)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
         (d)   Thermal inactivation;
         (e)   Irradiation; or
         (f)   Discharges into a sanitary sewer or septic system that is
properly installed and operation in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this chapter shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this chapter
before it is compacted.
   (D)   Each body artist and body art establishment shall ensure that
infectious waste, which they generate, is transported off-site in compliance
with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
   (E)   Infectious waste shall be disposed of by a waste hauler approved by
the Department.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 POST BODY ART INFECTION PREVENTION.
   Each body artist and body art establishment shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Each body artist and body art establishment is to provide instruction
to its clients in methods to prevent infection, such as the use of bactericidal
creams and ointments and soap, and appropriate barrier dressings where
indicated.
   (B)   Each client should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention
should there be any evidence of infection.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 EFFECT OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   All rules and regulations of the state governing body art, or any of the
matters or activities described herein, are incorporated herein. If the chapter
contains rules or regulations that are or become less strict than rules and
regulations of the state, then such stricter rules of the state shall apply and
supercede those of this chapter. The body artist and the body art establishment
shall comply with all rules and regulations of the state. In the event this
chapter contains provisions which are stricter than those of the state, then
the stricter provisions found herein shall apply.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a required license. No person shall do body art
without obtaining a license therefor, as required by this chapter. There is
hereby imposed a fine of $100 for violation of the provisions of this chapter
requiring a body art establishment license. No person shall perform body art
without obtaining and maintaining the licenses required by this chapter. Any
person who performs body art without a license, as required by this chapter,
shall be subject to a fine of $50 per violation.
   (B)   Failure to comply with other provisions of this chapter. Failure to
comply with any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. The fine for violating any other provision of this chapter, except
failure to obtain or maintain a license which is provided in division (A)
above, shall be $50 per violation, unless the violation causes harm to any
person, in which event the fine shall be not less than $1,000, and not more
than $2,500, depending on the severity of the harm to the individual.
   (C)   Continuation of violation. Each event, or each day a violation exists,
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Revocation of license. The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the
license of any body art establishment for any period of time for any violation
of this chapter, state, and/or federal regulations concerning blood-borne
pathogens, body art, or work place regulations (OSHA). The suspension and/or
revocation shall be effective upon issuance by the Health Officer. The
establishment may have the license reinstated upon compliance with this
chapter, state, or federal regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, body
art, or work place regulations (OSHA) and to the satisfaction of the Health
Officer. Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-
21.5-3-1 et seq. The Board of Health shall conduct administrative hearings
concerning the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein, as set
forth in I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 113: MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Compliance with chapter
   
113.03   Permits
   
113.04   Equipment standards
   
113.05   Building structure, layout
   
113.06   Sanitation and hygiene
   
113.07   Sleeping quarters
   
113.08   Massages or baths administered by person of opposite sex
   
113.09   Prohibited acts in violation of the laws of the state and this chapter
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH CLUB.
      (1)   Any establishment which offers service in any form of massage,
baths, exercises, or similar services, in combination to club members, or to
the public for a charge.
      (2)   The term HEALTH CLUB does not include:
         (a)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics, or the offices of
quarters of a physician, a surgeon, or an osteopath;
         (b)   Exercise clubs exclusively for members or clientele of one sex
alone, where the services, without massage in any form, are performed by a
person of the same sex as the members or clientele; or
         (c)   Barbershops and beauty parlors.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. The term is used synonomously with HEALTH CLUB, defined
herein.
   MASSEUR AND MASSEUSE. A person who practices any one or more of the arts of
body massage, either by hand or mechanical apparatus, oil rubs, corrective
gymnastics, mechanotherapy, including color therapy, dietetics, hot packs,
cabinet, tub, shower, sitz, vapor, steam, or any other special type of bath.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976)
§ 113.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a health
club or massage parlor without a permit, or being in violation of any
requirements or prohibitions set forth in this chapter, or any regulation
issued pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No health club or massage parlor shall operate without first obtaining
a permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any health club or massage parlor,
except to an owner or manager who is either:
      (1)   A physician in good standing and licensed by the state; or
      (2)   A registered nurse with at least two years nursing experience, and
in good standing with the health agencies and officials of the state.
   (C)   Permit forms are obtainable and are processed in the office of the
County Auditor.
   (D)   Additional permits are required as followed.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any PERSON, as defined in division (F)
below, to own or manage a MASSAGE PARLOR or HEALTH CLUB, as defined in §
113.01, or any masseur or masseuse to give or offer a massage in a health club
without a valid, non-suspended permit issued pursuant to this chapter
conspicuously posted in the establishment; that is, so that the permit may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises in the public room thereof.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any PERSON, as defined in division (F)
below, to establish, maintain, or operate a health club in which he or she, or
a masseur or masseuse, who does not have a valid, non-suspended permit pursuant
to this chapter performs, or offers to perform, or where it is offered to
perform, massages.
   (E)   (1)   Any person desiring a permit hereunder shall make application to
the County Sheriff on forms provided by him or her. Each permit application
shall be accompanied by an application fee of $150, payable to the County
Treasurer. Each application shall contain the name, address, Social Security
number, telephone number, last previous address, date of birth, height, weight,
and current and last previous employment of the applicant. In addition, such
application shall include a sworn statement as to whether or not the applicant
has been, within the last five years, convicted, pleaded nolo contendere, or
suffered a forfeiture on any felony charge, or on a charge of violating any
provision included in I.C. 35-30-1-1, 35-30-4-1, 35-30-6-b, 35-30-7-1, or 35-
30-7-2, which laws relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of violating a
similar law of any other jurisdiction, or on a charge of violating any
provision of this chapter or similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The
application shall state thereto that:
 
   “It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this
application, and discovery of a false statement shall constitute grounds for
denial or revocation of a permit.”
 
      (2)   Each applicant shall be photographed and his or her fingerprints
taken, which fingerprints and photograph shall constitute a part of the
application. The permit shall be valid for a period of six months, and it may
be renewed for additional six-month periods upon the filing of a new
application and payment of the $150 application fee. All provisions of this
chapter shall apply to renewals in the same manner as they apply to application
for, and granting of, initial permits.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the application fee, as provided for in division (E)
(2) above, the County Sheriff shall make, or cause to be made, a thorough
investigation relative to the application. The Sheriff shall deny any
application for a permit under this chapter after notice and hearing if the
Sheriff finds that the applicant has been, during the previous five years,
convicted, pleaded nolo contendere, or suffered a forfeiture on any felony
charge, or on a charge of violating any provision included in the foregoing
cited sections of the state code contained in division (E)(1) above, which laws
relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of violating any similar law or any
other jurisdiction, or on a charge of violating any provision of this chapter
or similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The making of a false statement
on the application, as provided for herein, shall also be grounds for denial of
the permit. Notice of the hearing before the County Sheriff of the application
shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the proposed denial of
a permit and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed by
certified mail to the applicant’s last known address at least ten days prior to
the date set for the hearing. The Sheriff shall submit his or her decision to
the applicant within five days of his or her decision, or within 30 days of his
or her receipt of the application, whichever date is the sooner.
   (G)   The Sheriff shall revoke the permit of any person after notice and
hearing if the Sheriff finds that such person has been, within the previous
five years, convicted, pleaded nolo contendere, or suffered a forfeiture on any
felony charge, or on a charge of violating any provision included in those
sections of the state code set forth in division (E)(1) above, which laws
relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of violating a similar law of any
other jurisdiction, or on a charge of violating any provision of this chapter
or a similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The permit shall also be
revoked by the Sheriff if he or she finds, after notice and hearing, that any
permit holder has made a false statement on the application provided for
herein. Notice of the hearing before the Sheriff for revocation of the permit
shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the proposed
revocation, and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed
by certified mail to the permit holder’s last known address at least ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (H)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to purport to hold a valid
permit when he or she does not, or to fail to display, upon request to any
police officer, corroborating identifying evidence that he or she is, in fact,
the person displaying the permit; or fail to display the permit upon request of
a police officer. It shall likewise be an automatic cause for revocation of the
permit of any owner or manager of a massage parlor or health club should they
have two or more violations of these provisions in his or her establishment
within a 12-month period.
   (I)   A PERSON applying for a permit hereunder shall include a partnership
or association, or any partner or member thereof, or if the applicant is a
corporation it shall include any officer, director, or manager thereof, or
shareholder owing 10% or more of its stock, and shall likewise include members
of both sexes.
   (J)   (1)   In the event the Sheriff should deny or revoke any permit
hereunder, the applicant shall have an automatic right to appeal such denial or
revocation to the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Said Board of Commissioners shall hold a hearing with the same
procedural guidelines as set out about for the Sheriff within 30 days of the
date of the denial or revocation.
      (3)   Said Board of Commissioners shall submit their decision to the
applicant or permit holder within five days of their decision, or within 30
days of the hearing, whichever date is sooner.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 EQUIPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All tables, tubs, shower stalls, and floors, except reception and
administrative areas, shall be made of non-porous materials which may be
readily disinfected.
   (B)   Closed containers shall be provided for wet towels and waste material.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 BUILDING STRUCTURE, LAYOUT.
   (A)   No health club shall begin operations until the building occupied, or
to be occupied, shall have been approved by the County Building Commissioner,
who shall establish procedures for investigation and report by the
administrative officers of the Building, Plumbing, Electric, and Fire
Prevention Codes. There must be full compliance with all applicable state laws
in the foregoing respects.
   (B)   An applicant for a permit to operate a health club or massage parlor
shall submit to the County Building Commissioner plans and specifications of
the quarters proposed to be occupied. Such plans shall show details of
entrances, partitions, windows, openings, ventilation, plumbing fixtures, water
supply, and waste and vent connections.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 SANITATION AND HYGIENE.
   (A)   All equipment, shower stalls, toilets, lavatories, and any other such
accoutrements of the establishment shall be regularly treated with
disinfectants, and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
   (B)   Any law enforcement official, member of the County Board of
Commissioners, or County Public Health Official of the state shall be given
access to any part of the quarters of a health club or massage parlor for
purposes of inspection at all reasonable times.
   (C)   No person shall practice any of the services of a health club or
massage parlor without certificate of good health issued by a duly-licensed
physician, commensurate with the nature of the services rendered. Such
certificate shall be renewed every three months.
   (D)   No health club or massage parlor shall knowingly serve any patron
infected with fungus or other skin infection, or shall service be performed on
any patron exhibiting skin inflammation or eruptions; provided, that a duly-
licensed physician may certify that a person may be safely served, prescribing
the conditions thereof.
   (E)   All personnel shall wash his or her hands in hot running water, using
a proper soap or disinfectant, before giving any service or treatment to each
separate patron.
   (F)   All towels and tissues, and all sheets or other coverings, shall be
used singularly for each patron, and discarded for laundry or disposal
immediately after use.
   (G)   Nondisposable tools of the trade shall be disinfected after use upon
one patron.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 SLEEPING QUARTERS.
   (A)   No part of any quarters of any health club or massage parlor shall be
used for, or connected with, any bedroom or sleeping quarters, nor shall any
person sleep in such health club or massage parlor, except it be for limited
periods not exceeding one hour, incidental to, and directly related to, a
massage or bath.
   (B)   This provision shall not preclude the location of a health club or
massage parlor separate of a building housing a hotel, or other separate
businesses or clubs.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any establishment, health club, or massage parlor,
regardless of whether it is a public or private facility, to operate as a
massage salon, bath parlor, or any similar type business where any physical
contact with the recipient of such services is provided by a person of the
opposite sex. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
113.99; and, in addition to such penalty, it shall be the duty of the Board of
Commissioners to revoke the license of the owner or manager of the
establishment wherein the provisions of this section shall have been violated.
Revocation of license shall preclude issuance of any further license at said
location for a period of one year.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED ACTS IN VIOLATION OF THE LAWS OF THE STATE AND THIS
CHAPTER.
   (A)   No owner or manager of a health club or massage parlor shall tolerate,
in his or her establishment, any activity or behavior prohibited by the laws of
the state, particularly, but not exclusive of, those provisions of the state
code referred to in §
113.03(D), and/or said Pub. Law No. 341 of the 1975 Acts of the State General
Assembly, the latter being the state statute on obscenity.
   (B)   No owner or manager of a health club or massage parlor shall tolerate,
in his or her establishment, any activity or behavior which violates this
chapter.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $1,000, and/or imprisoned not more than six months.
(Ord. 76-1, passed 2-20-1976)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT; SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Adult Entertainment Establishments
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   State of nudity
   
114.03   Age restriction
   
114.04   Hours of operation
   
114.05   Operation of an adult entertainment establishment
   
114.06   Prohibitions
   
114.07   Zoning Administrator
   
114.08   Violation
   
114.09   Enforcement
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
114.20   Rationale and findings
   
114.21   Definitions
   
114.22   Classifications
   
114.23   License required
   
114.24   Issuance of license
   
114.25   Fees
   
114.26   Inspection
   
114.27   Expiration of license
   
114.28   Suspension
   
114.29   Revocation
   
114.30   Hearing; license denial, revocation, suspension; appeal
   
114.31   Transfer of license
   
114.32   Hours of operation
   
114.33   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
114.34   Loitering, exterior lighting, visibility, monitoring requirements
   
114.35   Enforcement
   
114.36   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
114.37   Prohibited activities
   
114.38   Scienter required to prove violation or business license liability
   
114.39   Failure of county to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee
rights
   
114.40   Location of sexually-oriented businesses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to any establishment open to the public
in which persons appear in a state of nudity for the purpose of entertaining
the patrons of such establishments, irrespective of whether such establishments
are licensed to serve alcohol or fermented malt beverages.
   (B)   Such establishments are hereinafter referred to as ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
ESTABLISHMENTS.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 114.02 STATE OF NUDITY.
   A person appears in a STATE OF NUDITY when such person is unclothed, or in
such attire, costume, or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the
female breast below the top of the areola, or any portion of the pubic hair,
anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva, or genitals.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 114.03 AGE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No one under 18 years of age shall be admitted to any adult
entertainment establishment.
   (B)   This minimum age limitation also applies to any employees, agents,
servants, or independent contractors working on the premises during hours when
nude entertainment is being presented.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 11-28-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Nude entertainment shall only be available at adult entertainment
establishments from the hours of 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m., Monday through
Saturday of each week.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 114.05 OPERATION OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or maintain an adult entertainment
business or organization within 1,000 feet of any church, school, day care
center, preschool, or residence.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the 1,000-foot distance shall
be measured as a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of
the premises where the adult entertainment business or organization is located,
to the closest property line of the property containing the church, school, day
care center, preschool, or residence.
   (B)   No landowner or lessee shall knowingly permit an adult entertainment
establishment to be operated or maintained upon his or her property in
violation of division (A) above.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005; Ord. 2005-9, passed 11-28-2005) Penalty, see
§
114.99
§ 114.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall appear in a state of nudity in an adult entertainment
establishment, as provided for under this subchapter and I.C. 35-45-4-1.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator for the County Planning Commission, or other agents
or employees of that office, or any law enforcement officer, may, for any
violation of this chapter, enforce the provisions of this chapter by filing and
service of a summons and complaint in accordance with the County Court
procedures.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 114.08 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any adult entertainment establishment, which engages in repeated or
continuing violations of these regulations, shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   For the purposes of these regulations, REPEATED VIOLATIONS shall mean
three or more violations of any provision set out herein within a one-year
period dating from the time of any violation, and a CONTINUING VIOLATION shall
mean a violation of any provision set out herein lasting for three or more
consecutive days.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Prosecutor may bring action in the County Circuit Court for an
injunction against the operation of such establishments in a manner which
violates any of the provisions set out herein.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005)
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 114.20 RATIONALE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually-
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually-oriented
businesses within the county. The provisions of this subchapter have neither
the purpose, nor effect, of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content
or reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually-
oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent, nor effect, of this
subchapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials
protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither
is it the intent, nor effect, of this subchapter to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Board of Commissioners, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing
constructions incorporated in the cases of:
      (1)   City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, LLC, 124 S.Ct. 2219 (June 7,
2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); Pap’s
A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976),
Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409
U.S. 109 (1972);
      (2)   Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 26 F.Supp.2d 1128 (W.D. Wise. 1998),
aff’d in part, rev’d in part, 228 F.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000); Blue Canary Corp.
v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th Cir. 2001); Matney v. County of
Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d
797 (1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (1999); Graff v. City of
Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (1993); North Avenue Novelties, Inc., v. City of Chicago,
88 F.3d 441 (1996); Chulchian v. City of Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir.
1980); Bzgg Wolf Discount Video v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D.
Md. 2003); County of Cook v. Renaissance Arcade and Bookstore, 122 Ill. 2d 123
(1988) (including cases cited therein); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc.,
v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v., Village
of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); People ex rel Deters v. Effingham
Retail 27, Inc., No. 04-CH-26 (4th Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, Ill.,
June 13,2005); Annex Books, Inc., v. City of Indianapolis, No. 1:03-CV-918,
summary judgment order, Aug. 27, 2004 and Order Denying Motion to Alter or
Amend, Mar. 31, 2005 (S.D. Ind.); Andy’s Lounge et al. v. City of Gary, No. 2:
01-CV-327, order granting summary judgment, Mar. 31, 2005 (N.D. Ind.); LLEH,
Inc., v. Wichita County, 289 F3d 358 (5th Cir. 2002); World Wide Video of
Washington, Inc., v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar,
Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); Abilene Retail #30,
Inc., v. Board of Commissioners, 2005 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 30491 (D. Kan., Dec.
1,2005); Casanova Entm’t Group, Inc., v. City of New Rochelle, 2006 U.S. App.
LEXIS 2589 (2nd Cir., Jan. 31, 2006); Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 2006
U.S. App. LEXIS 2745 (Feb. 2, 2006); and
      (3)   Based upon reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and
around sexually-oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, Austin,
Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991;
Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - .1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga,
Tennessee - 1999-2003; Minneapolis, Minnesota -1980; Los Angeles, California -
1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud,
Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma -1986;
Dallas, Texas - 1997; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas -
1977; New York, New York Times Square - 1994; and the Report of the Attorney
General’s “Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses”
(June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Board of Commissioners finds:
         (a)   Sexually-oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses,
are associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects, including, but
not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation;
         (b)   Sexually-oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually-oriented businesses to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses, and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually-oriented businesses in one area; and
         (c)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a
harm which the county has a substantial government interest in preventing and/
or abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary
effects, which is the county’s rationale for this subchapter, exists
independent of any comparative analysis between sexually-oriented and non-
sexually-oriented businesses. Additionally, the county’s interest in regulating
sexually-oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of
either current or future sexually-oriented businesses that may locate in the
county. The county finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this
subchapter are reasonably believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005; Ord. 2006-03, passed 2-16-2006)
§ 114.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The County Zoning Administrator.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as a principal part of its
business, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following: books/magazines; periodicals, or other printed matter;
or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital
video discs, slides, or other visual representations, which are characterized
by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (2)   A PRINCIPAL PART OF ITS BUSINESS means that the commercial
establishment:
         (a)   Has at least 35% of its displayed merchandise which consists of
said items;
         (b)   Has at least 35% of the wholesale value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
         (c)   Has at least 35% of the retail value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
         (d)   Derives at least 35% of its revenues from the sale or rental for
any form of consideration of said items;
         (e)   Maintains a section of at least 35% of its interior business
space for the sale or rental of said items; or
         (f)   Maintains an ADULT ARCADE, which means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited, wherein coin-operated or slug-operated, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image producing devices, are regularly
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon
matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
other commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served,
which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude.
   ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot, or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
digitally-produced images, theatrical productions, and other forms of visual
productions, for any form of consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on
outdoor seats in which a preponderance of the total presentation time is
devoted to the showing of materials distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains,
or is used for, commercial entertainment where the patron directly or
indirectly is charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth,
a series of live dance routines, strip performances, digitally-produced images,
or other gyrational choreography which performances are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or by exposure of
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any commercial establishment which
regularly offers rooms with a capacity of more than five, but less than 50,
persons, wherein films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
visual images that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly
presented for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, other photographic reproductions, or live
performances which are characterized by the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and which advertises the availability
of such material by means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by
means of any on- or off-premises advertising, including, but not limited to,
newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio, or television;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices, are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions, which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, are regularly shown to more than five
persons for any form of consideration.
   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure, or other
facility that uses at least 35% of the building, premises, structure, or other
facility for commercial activities involving the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this subchapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually-
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   COUNTY. The County of Spencer, State of Indiana.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT. Describes and pertains to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually-oriented business on a full-
time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business; and/or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business.
   HEARING BODY. The Board of Commissioners.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the sexually-oriented business, or
control the operation, management, or policies of the sexually-oriented
business or legal entity which operates the sexually-oriented business;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business, or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (for example, president, vice president,
secretary, treasurer, managing member, managing director, and the like) in a
legal entity which operates the sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual, or individuals, listed as
an applicant on the application for a sexually-oriented business license. In
case of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually-
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function, or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. OPERATOR means any person on the premises of a
sexually-oriented business who causes the business to function, or who puts or
keeps in operation the business, or who is authorized to manage the business or
exercise overall operational control of the business premises. A person may be
found to be OPERATING or CAUSING TO BE OPERATED a sexually-oriented business
whether or not that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto, and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, any trailers,
private walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto,
under the ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in
the application for a business license pursuant to §
114.23.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of the act so described.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel; provided, the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO.
      (1)   A place where persons regularly appear in a state of semi-nudity
for money, or any form of consideration, in order to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons.
      (2)   This definition does not apply to any place where persons appearing
in a state of semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to colleges, junior
colleges, or universities supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure,
and no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include
devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases
or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or any establishment primarily dedicated
to providing medical or healthcare products or services, nor shall this
definition be construed to include commercial establishments which do not
restrict access to any portion of their premises by reason of age.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer, for any form of
consideration, physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, an adult cabaret, an adult
mini motion picture theater, an adult motel, an adult motion picture theater,
an adult service establishment, a semi-nude model studio, a sexual device shop,
or a sexual encounter center, as defined in this section. The term SEXUALLY-
ORIENTED BUSINESS shall also include an adult drive-in theater, an adult live
entertainment arcade, and an adult motion picture arcade, as defined herein.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means and includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Any of the following specified crimes for which less than five
years elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from
confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
         (a)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of
a child, sexual exploitation of a minor, or indecent exposure;
         (b)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, or promoting
prostitution;
         (c)   Obscenity;
         (d)   Dealing in controlled substances; and/or
         (e)   Racketeering, tax evasion, or money laundering.
      (2)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses.
      (3)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in the state, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL. At least 35% of the item(s) so modified.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest, or other operation of law, upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of sexually-oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, video cassette,
or other video reproduction.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.22 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classifications for sexually-oriented businesses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstore;
   (B)   Adult cabaret;
   (C)   Adult motel;
   (D)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (F)   Adult service establishment;
   (G)   Semi-nude model studio;
   (H)   Sexual device shop; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter center.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.23 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented
business in the county without a valid sexually-oriented business license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an EMPLOYEE, as defined in §
114.21, of a sexually-oriented business in the county without a valid sexually-
oriented business employee license.
   (C)   (1)   An applicant for a sexually-oriented business license or a
sexually-oriented business employee license shall file, in person, at the
office of the Administrator a completed application made on a form provided by
the Administrator. The application shall be signed as required by division (E)
below and shall be notarized. An application shall be considered complete when
it contains, for each person required to sign the application, the information
and/or items required in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(g) below,
accompanied by the appropriate fee identified in §
114.25:
         (a)   The applicant’s full true name, and any other names used by the
applicants in the preceding five years;
         (b)   Current business address, or another mailing address, of the
applicant;
         (c)   Written proof of age in the form of a driver’s license, or a
copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document
issued by a governmental agency;
         (d)   If the application is for a sexually-oriented business license,
the business name, location, legal description, mailing address, and phone
number of the sexually-oriented business;
         (e)   If the application is for a sexually-oriented business license,
the name and business address of the statutory agent, or other agent authorized
to receive service of process;
         (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of, or
has pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, as
defined in §
114.21, and if so, each specified-criminal activity involved, including the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each, as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable; and
         (g)   A statement of whether any sexually-oriented business, in which
an applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years
(and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared, by a court of law, to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(a) through
(C)(1)(g) above shall be supplemented in writing, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the Administrator within ten working days of a change of
circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false or
incomplete.
   (D)   An application for a sexually-oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located, and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but shall be drawn to a
designated scale, or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with §§
114.33 and
114.37 shall submit a diagram indicating that the interior configuration meets
the requirements of those sections.
   (E)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as an applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the business shall sign
the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified
under §
114.24, and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (F)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this subchapter shall be maintained by the
office of the Administrator on a confidential basis, and such information may
be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by law
or court order.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the filing of a completed application under §
114.23(C) for a sexually-oriented business license, the Administrator shall
immediately issue a temporary license if the completed application is from a
business that is seeking renewal of a current license that was previously
issued under this subchapter. The temporary license shall expire upon the final
decision of the county to deny or grant an annual license. Within 20 days of
the filing date of a completed sexually-oriented business license application,
the Administrator shall issue a license to the applicant, or issue to the
applicant a letter of intent to deny the application.
      (2)   The Administrator shall issue a license unless:
         (a)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant has failed to provide information, as required by §
114.23, for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
         (c)   The license application fee required by this subchapter has not
been paid;
         (d)   The SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS, as defined in §
114.21, is not in compliance with the interior configuration requirements of
this subchapter, or is not in compliance with locational requirements of this
subchapter, or the locational requirements of any other county ordinance;
         (e)   Any sexually-oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared, by a court of law, to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
         (f)   An applicant has been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to, a SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, as defined in §
114.21.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the filing of a completed application under §
114.23(C) for a sexually-oriented business employee license, the Administrator
shall immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant, which temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the county to deny or grant an
annual license. Within 20 days of the filing date of a completed sexually-
oriented business employee license application, the Administrator shall either
issue a license or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant.
      (2)   The Administrator shall approve the issuance of a license unless:
         (a)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant has failed to provide information, as required by
§
114.23, for issuance of a license, or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (c)   The license application fee required by this subchapter has not
been paid;
         (d)   Any sexually-oriented business, in which the applicant has had
an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared, by a court of law, to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
         (e)   The applicant has been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to, a SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, as defined in §
114.21.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person, or persons, to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually-
oriented business, the address of the sexually-oriented business. The sexually-
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it may be read at any time.
A sexually-oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his
or her person, or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005; Ord. 2006-03, passed 2-16-2006)
§ 114.25 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually-oriented business
licenses and sexually-oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows.
   (A)   One hundred dollars for the initial fee for a sexually-oriented
business license, and $50 for annual renewal.
   (B)   Fifty dollars for the initial sexually-oriented business employee
license, and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.26 INSPECTION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses and sexually-oriented business employees shall
permit the Administrator and his or her agents to inspect, from time to time on
an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually-oriented business premises
where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
specific regulations of this subchapter, during those times when the sexually-
oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section
shall be narrowly construed by the county to authorize reasonable inspections
of the licensed premises pursuant to this subchapter, but not to authorize a
harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.27 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance, unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may
be renewed only by making application and payment of a fee, as provided in §§
114.23 and
114.25.
   (B)   An application for renewal should be made pursuant to the procedures
set forth in §
114.23 at least 90 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 90
days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be
affected.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.28 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The county shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually-oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the
sexually-oriented business licensee has knowingly violated this subchapter, or
has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this subchapter.
   (B)   The county shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually-oriented business employee license if the employee has knowingly
violated this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.29 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The county shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually-
oriented business license or a sexually-oriented business employee license, as
applicable, if the licensee knowingly violates this subchapter, or has
knowingly allowed an employee to violate this subchapter, and the licensee’s
license has been suspended within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The county shall issue written intent to revoke a sexually-oriented
business license or a sexually-oriented business employee license, as
applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually-oriented business license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked; and/or
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity to occur in or on the licensed premises.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license; provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in §
114.30, the Board of Commissioners revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented
business license, or sexually-oriented business employee license, for one year
from the date revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.30 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the Administrator issues a written notice of intent to
deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the Administrator shall immediately send
such notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this subchapter for
such action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the Administrator for the
respondent. The notice shall specify a date, not less than ten days nor more
than 20 days after the date the notice is issued, on which the Board of
Commissioners shall conduct a hearing on the Administrator’s intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license.
      (2)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of the respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel,
present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of
the Administrator’s witnesses. The Administrator shall also be represented by
counsel, and shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying,
suspending, or revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two
days, unless extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements
of due process and proper administration of justice. The Board of Commissioners
shall issue a written decision, including specific reasons for the decision
pursuant to this subchapter, to the respondent within five days after the
hearing. Ten days after the Board issues its written decision, said decision
shall be deemed final, and any temporary license shall expire.
      (3)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall include a statement advising the respondent of the right to
appeal or challenge such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. If the
Board of Commissioners’ decision finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of the license, the Board of Commissioners shall,
contemporaneously with the issuance of the decision, order the Administrator to
immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, and to
notify the respondent, in writing, by certified mail of such action. If the
respondent is not yet licensed, the Administrator shall contemporaneously
therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   (1)   If any court action challenging the Board of Commissioners’
decision is initiated, the Board of Commissioners shall prepare and transmit to
the court a transcript of the hearing within ten days after receiving written
notice of the filing of the court action.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall consent to expedited briefing and/
or disposition of the action, shall comply with any expedited schedule set by
the court, and shall facilitate prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The
following shall apply to any sexually-oriented business that is lawfully in
operation, in all respects, as of the effective date of this subchapter. Upon
the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise
enjoin the county’s enforcement of the denial, suspension, or revocation, the
county shall immediately issue the respondent a provisional license. The
provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
sexually-oriented business, or to continue employment as a sexually-oriented
business employee, and will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the
respondent’s appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the
county’s enforcement.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.31 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually-oriented
business license application.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.32 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.33 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates, or causes to be operated, a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises, through
any mechanical or electronic image-producing, device, a film, video cassette,
or other visual reproduction characterized by an emphasis on the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually-oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator’s
stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras, and
monitors installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate
all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms
shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north, or to some designated street or object, and shall be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The Administrator may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than 15 foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   The occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person;
         (b)   Sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (c)   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (d)   Violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (e)   Violations of divisions (A)(5)(a) through (A)(5)(c) above are
unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (A)(5)(a) though (A)(5)(d) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the operator’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(7) must be by direct line of sight from the operator’s
station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is
on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that any patron is
on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in this division (A)(7) remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials or enclosures at all
times that any patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005; Ord. 2006-03, passed 2-16-2006) Penalty, see
§
114.99
§ 114.34 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING, VISIBILITY, MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually-oriented business
to:
      (1)   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 90 minutes, or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video cameras
and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises are open
for business. The monitors shall be installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No sexually-oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or other
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any sexually-oriented business which engages in repeated or continuing
violations of this subchapter shall constitute a public nuisance. For purposes
of this section, REPEATED VIOLATIONS shall mean three or more violations of
this subchapter within a one-year period dating from the time of any violation,
and a CONTINUING VIOLATION shall mean a violation of this subchapter lasting
for three or more consecutive days.
   (B)   The county’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this subchapter to prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the county; provided, however, that nothing in
this section, and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such
proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this subchapter, or any
of the laws or ordinances in force in the county, or to exempt anyone violating
this subchapter, or any part of the said laws, from any penalty which may be
incurred.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.36 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   This subchapter is necessary to the immediate preservation of the
public health and safety, to prevent the negative secondary effects of
sexually-oriented businesses, and therefore shall become effective immediately
upon passage.
   (B)   All sexually-oriented businesses lawfully-operating in all respects,
and all sexually-oriented business employees working in a lawfully operating
sexually-oriented business, on the effective date of this subchapter, are
hereby granted a de facto temporary license to continue operation or employment
without a license for a period of 30 days following the effective date of this
subchapter. By the end of said 30 days, all sexually-oriented businesses and
sexually-oriented business employees shall apply for a license under this
subchapter. During said 30 days, all requirements of this subchapter, except
for the requirement of obtaining a license, shall be in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.37 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a sexually-oriented business to knowingly violate
the following regulations, or to knowingly allow an employee or any other
person to violate the following regulations.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a patron, employee,
or any other person to knowingly or intentionally in a sexually-oriented
business, appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity
is expressive in nature.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a person to
knowingly or intentionally in a sexually-oriented business, appear in a semi-
nude condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, remains
at least six feet from any patron or customer, and on a stage at least 18
inches from the floor in a room of at least 1,000 square feet.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any employee who
regularly appears semi-nude in a sexually-oriented business to knowingly or
intentionally touch a customer, or the clothing of a customer, on the premises
of a sexually-oriented business.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to sell,
use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually-oriented
business.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to
knowingly allow a person under 18 years of age to be or remain on the premises
of a sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Administrator, and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above, shall be
posted near the entrance of the sexually-oriented business in such a manner as
to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.38 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSE LIABILITY.
   This subchapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this subchapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this subchapter,
an act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually-oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this subchapter, or for
purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer,
director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly
allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability
that the person to whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.39 FAILURE OF COUNTY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a county official is required to take an act or do a thing
pursuant to this subchapter within a prescribed time, and fails to take such
act or do such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent
the exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the county official under this subchapter, and not completed in the
time prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by
the county of an applicant’s or licensee’s application for a sexually-oriented
business license or a sexually-oriented business employee’s license (including
a renewal), the condition shall be deemed met the day after the deadline for
the county’s action has passed.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 114.40 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall not be required to obtain a special
exception permit. It shall be unlawful to operate a sexually-oriented business
except in the B-1, B-2, I-1, or I-2 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a
sexually-oriented business in the county, unless said sexually-oriented
business is at least:
      (1)   One thousand feet from any parcel occupied by another sexually-
oriented business or by a business licensed by the state to sell alcohol at the
premises; and
      (2)   One thousand feet from any parcel occupied by any church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, day care center or preschool, public
park, or any residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of any building or structure on the premises
where the sexually-oriented business is located to the closest property line of
the property containing the church, public or private elementary or secondary
school, day care center or preschool, public park, or any residence.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any county ordinance, a
non-conforming sexually-oriented business, lawfully existing in all respects
under law prior to the effective date of this subchapter, may continue to
operate for one year following that date in order to make a reasonable
recoupment of its investment in its current location. At the conclusion of said
one year, the use will no longer be recognized as a lawful non-conforming use;
provided, that a non-conforming sexually-oriented business may apply for one or
more six-month extensions of the original one-year period upon a showing of
financial hardship. An application for an initial extension based upon a
showing of financial hardship (“hardship exception”) shall be made at least 60
days before the conclusion of the aforementioned one-year period. If a hardship
extension is granted, subsequent applications for hardship extensions shall be
made at least 60 days before the conclusion of the non-conforming sexually-
oriented business’ current extension period.
   (E)   An application for a hardship extension shall be filed, in writing,
with the Administrator, and shall include evidence of purchase and improvement
costs, income earned and lost, depreciation, and costs of relocation. Within
ten days after receiving the application, the Administrator shall schedule a
public hearing on the application before the Planning Commission, which public
hearing shall be conducted within 30 days after the Administrator’s receipt of
the application. Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be
published at least ten days before the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation published within the county, and shall contain the particular
location for which the hardship extension is requested.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall issue a written decision within ten days
after the public hearing on the application for a hardship extension. The
hardship extension shall be granted upon a showing that the non-conforming
sexually-oriented business is unable, absent the extension, to make a
reasonable recoupment of its investment in its currently lawful, non-conforming
use location.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 12-28-2005; Ord. 2006-03, passed 2-16-2006) Penalty, see
§
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   An initial violation of any provisions contained in §§
114.01 through
114.09 shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of $1,000.
      (2)   Subsequent violations of §§
114.01 through
114.09 shall be punishable by a fine of an amount up to $2,500.
      (3)   Each day of operation in violation of any provision of §§
114.01 through
114.09 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   A first violation of any provision contained in §§
114.20 through
114.40 shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of $2,500.
      (2)   A second or subsequent violation of any provision contained in §§
114.20 through
114.40 shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of $7,500.
      (3)   Each day of violation of any provision contained in §§
114.20 through
114.40 shall constitute a separate violation.
      (4)   In addition to the foregoing, every person or entity found to be in
violation of any regulation in, or any provision of, §§
114.20 through
114.40 shall also be responsible for the reasonable costs of enforcement
thereof, including attorney’s fees, other personnel costs, and court costs, in
any action taken to enforce the provisions of §§
114.20 through
114.40.
      (5)   Any action permitted to be commenced under this division (B)
against any owner and/or possessor of real estate may also be brought against
the owner of any personal property who has furnished that property, or
permitted it to be placed, on real estate in a manner which results in any
violation of §§
114.20 through
114.40.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-15-2005; Ord. 2005-9, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 2007-05,
passed 6-4-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Prohibition of weapons in the County Courthouse
   
130.02   Prohibition of tobacco products in county buildings
   
130.03   Sale of synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION OF WEAPONS IN THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WEAPON. Shall include, but is not limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   DEADLY WEAPON, as may be defined from time to time in the
Indiana Code Title 35, currently I.C. 35-31.5-2-86.
         (b)   ELECTRONIC STUN WEAPON, as may be defined from time to time in
the Indiana Code Title 35, currently I.C. 35-47-8-1.
         (c)   EXPLOSIVE, refers to any agent or substance tending, or serving,
to explode. EXPLOSIVE shall include but is not limited to, gunpowder and
dynamites.
         (d)   FIREARM, as may be defined from time to time in the Indiana Code
Title 35, currently I.C. 35-47-1-5.
         (e)   STUN GUN, as may be defined from time to time in the I.C. 35-47-
8-2.
         (f)   TASER, as may be defined from time to time in the Indiana Code
Title 35, currently I.C. 35-47-8-3.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall
not possess on, or about, his or her person a firearm and ammunition, or a
deadly weapon, within the Spencer County Courthouse.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following persons are exempt from this section:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers under I.C. 35-41-1-17; and
         (b)   State Department of Correction officers, judicial officers, and
probation officers who are in the County Courthouse, for official business and
duly authorized to carry deadly weapons.
         (c)   Spencer County Commissioners, Spencer County Councilpersons,
Spencer County Assessor, Spencer County Auditor, Spencer County Clerk, Spencer
County Coroner, Spencer County Surveyor or Spencer County Treasurer during
their term in office who are not otherwise disqualified from possessing said
weapons by Indiana Law or Court Order. This exception does not apply to the
third floor of the Courthouse or rooms in the Courthouse while in use for
judicial proceedings.
      (2)   Chemical spray devices carried by persons for personal protection
shall not be considered weapons.
      (3)   A person described as exempt from this section shall not be exempt
if he or she, or any member of his or her family, is a party to any proceeding
taking place in the Spencer County Courts.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 3-19-2002; Ord. 2012-07, passed 5-1-2012; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 2023-06, passed 7-18-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Shall include, but is not limited to, any of the
following:
         (a)   Cigarettes;
         (b)   Cigars;
         (c)   Pipes;
         (d)   Smokeless tobacco;
         (e)   Loose tobacco; and
         (f)   Electronic cigarettes, or any device that enables consumption of
tobacco or tobacco derivatives, including nicotine by inhalation of which
results in the emission of any smoke or vapor.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall
not use tobacco products within the County Courthouse, Highway Department and
Office Complex, Law Enforcement Center, County Prosecutor’s Office, Child
Support Enforcement Office, and ambulance stations, and on the grounds and in
the buildings used as polling places in the county from an hour before the
polls open until the polls have closed, the votes have been canvassed and
recorded, and the election officials have left the premises. In addition to the
buildings and offices listed above, there shall no use of tobacco products by
any person in any vehicle operated, owned, leased, or controlled by the county.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to the non-public areas of the
County Law Enforcement Center.
(Ord. 2003-07, passed 3-18-2003; Ord. 2014-11, passed 7-16-2014) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethy-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-01, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed, or offered for sale within the county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased, or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01(B) shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500. Any person violating
§
130.01(B) shall also be subject to having the firearm or weapon confiscated by
the proper law enforcement officials.
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.02(B) shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100.
   (D)   (1)   Any person or entity found in violation for the first time of
any provision of §
130.03, as amended from time to time, shall be subject to the penalty imposed
for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4. Accordingly, §
130.03 shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
      (2)   Any person or entity found in violation for the second and any
subsequent time(s) of any provision of §
130.03, as amended from time to time, shall be subject to the penalty imposed
for a Class A infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4. Accordingly, §
130.03 shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, any person or entity found to be in
violation of any provision of §
130.03, as amended from time to time, shall also be responsible for the
reasonable costs associated with the enforcement thereof, including, but not
limited to, attorney’s fees, laboratory fees, expert witness fees, other
personnel costs, and court costs, in any action taken to enforce the provisions
of §
130.03, as amended from time to time.
      (4)   Each violation of any provision contained in §
130.03, as amended from time to time, shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 3-19-2002; Ord. 2003-07, passed 3-18-2003; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-19-2010; Ord. 2022-07, passed 10-4-2022; Ord. 2023-06, passed 7-18-
2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
      
153.   DRAINAGE; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
      
155.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
      
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
157.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
158.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Procedures for temporary Building Inspector
   
150.02   Fire district established
   
150.03   Regulating the use of products for dust reduction on county gravel
roads
Electric Generating Facilities
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Applicability
   
150.17   Permissible uses
   
150.18   Notice requirements
   
150.19   Public hearing and updates
   
150.20   Construction approval
   
150.21   Compliance with other laws
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PROCEDURES FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING INSPECTOR
   (A)   A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or Building Inspector
of a unit may not issue a permit, or oversee the issuance of a permit, through
a subordinate if the Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or
inspector has a conflict of interest.
   (B)   Any Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or Building
Inspector who has a conflict of interest shall report the conflict of interest
to the County Auditor.
   (C)   Once the County Auditor has been notified of the conflict of interest,
the Auditor shall contact an alternate Building Inspector to complete the work.
Said alternate Building Inspector shall be the person previously appointed by
the County Board of Commissioners to serve as an alternate Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2019-07-01, passed 7-19-2019)
§ 150.02 FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Fire Protection District should be, and is hereby established, and
named the “Carter Fire District.”
   (B)   The territory included in the Carter Fire District is hereby
designated as all of Carter Township, within the county, excluding that part of
Carter Township located within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Santa
Claus.
   (C)   The Carter Fire District is established for the purposes provided at
I.C. 36-8-11-4, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Fire protection, including the capability of extinguishing all
fires that might reasonably be expired for all personal property and real
property within the boundaries of the District;
      (2)   Fire prevention, including identification of all potential and
actual sources of fire hazards; and
      (3)   Other functions related thereto, including educational, civic, and
charitable projects for the general welfare of the community, which are related
to fire protection and fire prevention.
   (D)   The Carter Fire District is necessary for the proper maintenance and
continuation of quality fire protection service, and for the improvement of
such services hereafter.
   (E)   (1)   The Commissioners find that the creation of the District will be
conducive to the public health, safety, and welfare by assuring the
continuation and improvement of fire protection and prevention.
      (2)   Creation of the District shall allow for a number of advantages,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Increased protection from the threat of loss of life and
property;
         (b)   Better and more sophisticated fire prevention programs;
         (c)   Better educational and civic fire and safety projects; and
         (d)   Reduced economic burdens based on decreased insurance costs
resulting from improved fire protection service.
   (F)   The benefits derived from the creation of the District outweigh any
costs and/or damages created herefrom.
(Ord. 1998-9, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.03 REGULATING THE USE OF PRODUCTS FOR DUST REDUCTION ON COUNTY GRAVEL
ROADS.
   (A)   No person or firm shall intentionally apply any substance for dust
suppression, other than water, to any county road without complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   The County Highway Department shall prepare application forms for
residents who wish to have dust suppressant measures applied to gravel roads on
a county road along their property.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide the name, address, and contact information
of the person or firm who is proposed to apply dust suppressing substances to
the county road, and sign a hold harmless agreement indemnifying the county
from liability for damages.
   (D)   The person or firm that is proposed to apply dust suppressing
substances shall provide their name, address, and contact information, plus
sign a hold harmless agreement to hold the county harmless and free from any
expense or liability, and ensure that:
      (1)   Dust suppressant substances are legal and approved by IDEM for road
application as contemplated herein;
      (2)   The application is in compliance with the procedures set forth
herein; and
      (3)   Any damages which may result to vehicles on the road as a result of
the dust suppression would be covered, without expense, to the county.
   (E)   The application of dust suppressant shall be done only of a substance
approved by IDEM and the County Highway Department, and shall only be done on a
surface approved by the County Highway Department.
   (F)   The applicant shall provide 14 days advance notice of when the road is
to be sprayed with dust suppressant. Prior to the application, the County
Highway Garage shall either grade the road in preparation of the dust
suppressant or shall approve the road for application to minimize ponding of
applied substances.
   (G)   The dust suppression substance shall be spread evenly across the road
with a sprayer to prevent ponding on the road.
   (H)   Following the spray application, the landowner shall immediately apply
cover to the entire treated road surface in a manner that is sufficient to
ensure the dust control treatment adheres to the road and isn’t otherwise
causing damage, or splashing onto passing vehicles. Cover shall be with
substances approved by the IDEM and the county, including sand, lime, or small
rock, which shall be evenly applied to the road.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-1-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITIES
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITY. Any facility or equipment used for the
production of electricity powered by natural gas, fossil fuels, nuclear energy,
hydrogen, and energy storage technologies.
   ELECTRIC PUBLIC UTILITY. A public utility regulated by the Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission (IURC) that engages in the generation, transmission, and
distribution of electricity to the public, and an affiliate or subsidiary of
the public utility.
   ENERGY STORAGE TECHNOLOGY. Systems or devices used to store electrical
energy for later use, including but not limited to batteries, pumped hydro
storage, and other emerging technologies.
   EXISTING GENERATION. Electric generating capacity that is currently in
operation or is in place at the time of this subchapter’s enactment.
   LAND USE APPROVALS. Any permits, licenses, or approvals required by Spencer
County for the use and development of land.
   NEW ELECTRIC GENERATING CAPACITY. Additional or replacement electric
generating equipment or facilities that are constructed or installed to
supplement or replace existing generation.
   PREMISE OF LAND. Property comprising a tract of land on which an electric
public utility generates electricity, including land within the perimeter of
the tract of land that is not currently owned by the electric public utility.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. An organization providing essential services to the public,
including electricity, water, and gas, which is regulated by governmental
entities to ensure reasonable rates and service quality.
   RETAIL MARKET. The market where electricity is sold directly to end users,
including residential, commercial, and industrial consumers.
   WHOLESALE MARKET. The market where electricity is sold in bulk, typically to
resellers such as utilities, who then sell it to end users.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.16 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the entire premise of land
currently used by an electric public utility for electricity generation. This
subchapter also applies to a premise of land zoned for use to replace, in whole
or in part, existing generation with new electric generating capacity for sale
in the wholesale or retail market.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.17 PERMISSIBLE USES.
   An electric public utility owning a premise of land in Spencer County on
which an electric generating facility currently exists is permitted to use that
land for the placement and construction of a new electric generating facility.
The new facility may utilize any type of electric generation listed in the
definitions for ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITY and ENERGY STORAGE TECHNOLOGY in §
150.15 without the need to obtain land use approvals from the county, provided
that the electricity generated by the new facility will be made available to
the public through sale in the wholesale or retail market.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.18 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   An electric public utility proceeding under the provisions of this
subchapter shall notify the Advisory Plan Commission of its intentions and, no
less than 180 days prior to the commencement of construction, provide the
Advisory Plan Commission with the following information:
   (A)   Description of the facility. A comprehensive description of the new
electric generating facility, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The size in megawatts (MW);
      (2)   Type of technology to be employed;
      (3)   Expected date of construction commencement;
      (4)   Expected date of operation;
      (5)   Expected operational lifespan of the facility;
      (6)   Plans for selling the output of the facility into either the
wholesale or retail market; and
      (7)   An overview of the decommissioning plans, including financial
assurances for decommissioning.
   (B)   Site plan. A detailed site plan indicating the proposed location of
the new electric generating facility, including:
      (1)   The primary structures;
      (2)   Proposed access roads;
      (3)   Regulated drains or ditches;
      (4)   Flood plains;
      (5)   Wetlands; and
      (6)   Historic sites and other areas of cultural or environmental
significance.
   (C)   Economic development plan. An economic development plan detailing the
expected economic impact on Spencer County, including:
      (1)   The anticipated number of jobs to be created during both the
construction and operational phases;
      (2)   The estimated property taxes; and
      (3)   The overall cost and revenue impact on the county.
   (D)   Safety and security plan. A safety and security plan describing
measures to ensure:
      (1)   Site security and safety;
      (2)   Coordination with county services; and
      (3)   Safeguarding the public from potential harm, including emergency
response plans.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.19 PUBLIC HEARING AND UPDATES.
   (A)   Public hearing. The electric public utility shall hold a public
hearing before the Advisory Plan Commission within 60 days following the
submission of the notice required in §
150.18. The purpose of the hearing is to provide general information regarding
the elements set forth in §
150.18 and receive feedback and hear concerns from the public and other
stakeholders.
   (B)   Publication. The electric public utility shall publish notice of the
public hearing pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1-2. The notice shall include:
      (1)   The date, time, and location of the hearing;
      (2)   A summary of the proposed project; and
      (3)   Information on how the public can access detailed project
information.
   (C)   Ongoing updates. The electric public utility shall keep the Advisory
Plan Commission informed of any material changes to the information provided in
§
150.18. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Modifications to the project scope or timeline;
      (2)   Changes in the technology or operational plans; and
      (3)   Abandonment of the plans to construct the new facility.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.20 CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   The electric public utility may proceed with the construction of the new
electric generating facility upon:
   (A)   The submission of all required elements detailed in §
150.18;
   (B)   Conducting and completing the necessary public hearing and providing
updates as specified in §
150.19; and
   (C)   Obtaining all necessary building permits from the appropriate
authorities.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.21 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not intend to preempt, conflict with, or
otherwise supersede any applicable local, state, or federal laws or
regulations. The electric public utility must comply with all relevant legal
requirements, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Local, state, and federal environmental regulations;
      (2)   Building codes and safety standards; and
      (3)   Public health and safety laws.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter
and any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or provision of law promulgated by
local, state, or federal authorities, the more stringent requirement shall
apply.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply to the provisions set forth in §
150.03 shall result in the imposition of a fine imposed on the violator,
landowner, company, or both, applying the substances in the following amounts:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $500;
         (c)   Third offense: $1,000; and/or
         (d)   Fourth or subsequent offense: $2,500.
      (2)   Determination of the level of the offense shall be based upon the
number of violations in the five years immediately preceding the latest
offense.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-1-2016)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Construction
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Scope
   
151.005   Authority
   
151.006   Building permit required
   
151.007   Application for building permit
   
151.008   Issuance of building permit
   
151.009   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.010   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
151.011   Inspections by Fire Department
   
151.012   Withhold issuance of permits
   
151.013   Permit revocation
   
151.014   Stop-work order
   
151.015   Civil action
   
151.016   Right of appeal
   
151.017   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.018   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.030   Adoption
   
151.031   Responsibility
   
151.032   Definitions
   
151.033   Limitation of powers of enforcement authority
   
151.034   Standard of work performed
Erosion Control on Sites with Land Disturbing Activities
   
151.045   Authority
   
151.046   Findings and purpose
   
151.047   Applicability
   
151.048   Definitions
   
151.049   General principles
   
151.050   Design criteria, standards, specifications for erosion control
measures
   
151.051   Erosion and sediment control requirements
   
151.052   Content requirements of erosion control plans
   
151.053   Review of erosion control plans
   
151.054   Enforcement, inspections
Utility Work in the Right-of-Way
   
151.065   Permit submission
   
151.066   Minimum, maximum notification
   
151.067   Permit bonding requirements
   
151.068   Traffic control standards
   
151.069   Standard permit conditions for pole lines and underground cables
   
151.070   Permitted work in county right-of-way
 
   
151.999   Penalty
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all material included herein by reference, shall be
known as the “Building Code of Spencer County, Indiana” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety,
health, and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Board of
Commissioners that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be, or is, occupied
or otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above; and
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines, by rules, to affect a building or structure described in division
(1)(a) above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more CONDOMINIUM UNITS (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade, or is a stand used for retail
sales of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be, or is, occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within, and affixed
to, the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following.
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain, or
contains, only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units, unless any part of the
building or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is, in whole or in substantial part,
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure, or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402, as it existed on January 1, 2003. MANUFACTURED HOME means a
structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or,
when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein;
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this definition, except the size requirements, and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and complies with the standards
established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and except that such term shall
not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing
purposes, and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; or
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles suspended between two or more parts
of a building, or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.005 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.006 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
The Board of Commissioners, by separate resolution, shall determine the
circumstances under which a permit must be obtained.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.007 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications, drawn to scale, which indicates, in a precise manner, the
nature and location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs, sidewalks, and driveways, and proposed changes or additions to
such streets, curbs, sidewalks, and driveways;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws, and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws;
and
      (6)   (a)   The fee established by separate resolution of the Board of
Commissioners, as may be duly-adopted from time to time, as determined to be
appropriate.
         (b)   A building permit shall be obtained before:
            1.   Beginning any new construction of a building or structure the
cost of which exceeds $2,000;
            2.   Beginning any addition, alteration, remodeling, or repair of
any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $5,000;
            3.   Beginning any electrical, plumbing, or mechanical
construction, the cost of which exceeds $750; or when the electrical and/or gas
service is upgraded in capacity; or permanent electrical and/or gas meter is
installed requiring the service of utility company; or before electric and/or
gas service can be reconnected following a fire or other damages at the
premises; or when electric and/or gas service has been disconnected and
inspection is required by the utility company prior to reconnection;
            4.   Beginning installation of any heating, ventilating, or air
conditioning system in a building or structure; or
            5.   Beginning installation of, or modifications to, any
underground storage tank using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner.
         (c)   A building that is a CLASS 1 STRUCTURE, as defined by the State
Department of Homeland Security Fire and Building Safety Services, shall first
obtain a construction design release, as required by the state, before
obtaining a building permit.
         (d)   All fees required by this subchapter shall be paid to the
county.
         (e)   Prior payment of the following, the building permit and
inspection fees shall be paid to the county, according to the following
schedule:
Type of Construction or Remodeling Fee
Type of Construction or Remodeling       Fee
1 or 2 family home (700 sq. ft. minimum)
Over 1,500 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.04 per sq. ft. over
                                         1,500
Up to 1,500 sq. ft. with electric        $160
service only
Up to 1,500 sq. ft. with gas and         $195
electric
Accessory Buildings for Agricultural Use Only
With electric                            $120
With no electric                         $85
Accessory Buildings for Non-Agricultural Use
Over 625 sq. ft.                         Base fee, plus $0.04 per sq. ft. over
                                         625
Up to 625 sq. ft. with no electric       $85
Up to 625 sq. ft. feet with electric     $120
Additions, Alterations, Remodeling, or Repairs (all occupancies)
Over 1,500 sq. ft.                       $85
Up to 1,500 sq. ft.                      Base fee, plus $0.04 per sq. ft. over
                                         1,500
Apartments, Hotels, and Motels
Over 1,500 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.04 per sq. ft. over
                                         1,500
Up to 1,500 sq. ft. with electric        $160
service only
Up to 1,500 sq. ft. with gas and         $195
electric
Business, Commercial, and Public Buildings (not here otherwise covered)
Over 3,000 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.05 per sq. ft. over
                                         3,000
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with electric        $235
service only
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with gas and         $270
electric
Educational, Institutional, and Churches
Over 3,000 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.05 per sq. ft. over
                                         3,000
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with electric        $235
service only
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with gas and         $270
electric
Industrial
Over 3,000 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.05 per sq. ft. over
                                         3,000
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with electric        $235
service only
Up to 3,000 sq. ft. with gas and         $270
electric
Mobile Homes (minimum 700 sq. ft. for residential use)
With electric and gas                    $195
With electric only                       $160
Other
Electric hook up or liquid storage tanks $60
Relocation, addition, or modification of $35
electric service
Relocation, addition, or modification of $35
gas service
Residential Swimming Pool
Permanent or non-portable*               $60
Warehouse and Bulk Storage Buildings
Over 5,000 sq. ft.                       Base fee, plus $0.02 per sq. ft. over
                                         5,000
Up to 5,000 sq. ft.                      $185
Notes to Table:
*Also requires a $10 improvement location permit
 
   (C)   An application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit, or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006; Res. 2017-02, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 151.008 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee;
provided, that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building laws, and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.009 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be
issued unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a
full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.010 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner, irrespective of whether a building permit has been, or
is required to be, obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around, or about the premises where any structure, subject to the provisions of
this subchapter, or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter, and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.011 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws (the Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.012 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person, which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit, owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to a resolution of the Board of
Commissioners, or inspection fees owed pursuant to a resolution of the Board of
Commissioners) to the county, the Building Commissioner may withhold the
issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is
satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance, or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.013 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable.
   (A)   The application, plans, or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans, or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance,
or other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.014 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State, with specificity, the construction to which it is
applicable, and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   State the conditions under which construction may be resumed; and
      (5)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property, or the owner’s agent.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter, or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter, or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (3)   Construction, for which a building permit is required, is
proceeding without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall, in no way, limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.015 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.016 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either or both of the
following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
county that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, 22-13, 22-14, 22-15, or a
fire safety or building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
         (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of
the Building Department may appeal as in other civil actions.
         (b)   The appellant must, by registered mail, give the County
Executive a 15-day written notice of his or her intention to appeal. This
notice must concisely state the appellant’s grievance.
         (c)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established, by
ordinance, to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance.
         (d)   If no such administrative body exists, then the person may
petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 151.017 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission, as set out in the following articles of Title
675 of the Indiana Administrative Code, are hereby incorporated by reference in
this code, and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   State Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14, State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16, State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18, State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, State Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22, State Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24, Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25, State Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the County Planning Commission office for public
inspection, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by the Building
Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of the county’s comprehensive plan, see
TSO Table XI
   Adoption of the county’s master development plan, see
TSO Table XI
§ 151.018 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices.
   (B)   Therefore, the following standards, applicable to lifting devices
located within a private residence, are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, “Private Residence Elevators,” ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, “Private Residence Inclined Elevators,” ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, “Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts,” ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, “Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts,” ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, “Private Inclined Stairway Lifts,” ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
   (C)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the County Planning Commission office for public
inspection, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-17-2006)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.030 ADOPTION.
   The County Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29, as
currently enacted and is hereafter amended, is hereby incorporated by
reference. All proceedings within the county for the inspection, repair, and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law, and the provisions
of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict
with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29, then the provisions of
the state statute shall control.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 151.031 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All buildings, or portions thereof, within the county which are determined,
after inspection by the Building Commissioner, to be UNSAFE, as defined in §
151.032, are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 151.032 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The County Building Commissioner, as Chief
Administrative Officer of the Building Department, shall be the ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY, as defined under I.C. 36-7-9-2, and is hereby authorized to
administer, and to proceed under, the provisions of said law in ordering the
repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe, as specified therein, or
as specified hereafter.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Board of Commissioners shall designate, by separate
resolution, the HEARING AUTHORITY, as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2, which shall
hear evidence and enter findings pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-7 regarding orders of
the Enforcement Authority. In absence of separate resolution, the Board of
Commissioners shall be deemed to be the HEARING AUTHORITY.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (1)   The description of an unsafe building, contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4,
is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the county.
      (2)   UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure, which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway,
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads is more than one and one-half times the working
stress, or stresses, allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose,
or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe, and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose, or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof, is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof,
because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause is likely to partially or completely collapse.
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member, or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing outside
walls or coverings;
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or if any law or ordinance of the state or county relating to
the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has, in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy
in the same location.
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure used, or intended to be used,
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Health Official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
         (p)   Whenever any building or structure because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, is determined by the Fire Official to
be a fire hazard; and/or
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building, or portion thereof, an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. As set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2, and is hereby
incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.033 LIMITATION OF POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Whenever, in the building regulations of the county or the Unsafe Building
Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject
to the direction of, the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of the
county, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by this subchapter have
been complied with, and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any
officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be,
power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce
ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013)
§ 151.034 STANDARD OF WORK PERFORMED.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission (675 I.A.C.), including 675 I.A.C.
12-4-9 and 675 I.A.C. 12-4-11(a), shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter, or orders issued pursuant
to this subchapter, by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013)
EROSION CONTROL ON SITES WITH LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES
§ 151.045 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11,
36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority
provides for the administration, enforcement, and amendment of this subchapter
for controlling soil erosion in the county.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.046 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners finds that soil erosion, resulting
from land disturbing activities, causes a significant amount of sediment and
other pollutants to be transported off-site to locations including, but not
limited to, ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to conserve the natural
resources, to protect the quality of air and water, and to protect and promote
the health, safety, and welfare of people, to the extent practicable by
minimizing the amount of sediment, and other pollutants, resulting from soil
erosion due to land disturbing activities, from being transported off-site to
adjacent public or private lands, including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands,
and reservoirs.
      (2)   Measures taken to control erosion and sedimentation should ensure
that sediment is not transported off of a site by the 25-year storm events, or
events of less severity.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.047 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all land disturbing activities on land
within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the county. AGRICULTURAL LAND
DISTURBING ACTIVITIES, as defined in §
151.048, are exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to the following sites with land disturbing
activities:
      (1)   Those involving the construction of industrial, commercial,
residential, agricultural, institutional, or other buildings; and
      (2)   Those involving grading, removal of protective ground cover or
vegetation, excavation, stockpiling, land filling, or other land disturbing
activity.
   (C)   This subchapter does not preclude the owner of the site from being
required to secure all necessary local, state, and federal permits.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.048 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY. The County Board of Commissioners or its designated
representatives.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing, and/or
yarding of livestock, and planting, growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops
for human or livestock consumption, and for which a conservation farm plan has
been approved by the SWCD and is being implemented. This definition does not
include the construction of farm facilities such as dwellings, barns, sheds, or
other structures which are, therefore, not exempt.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN. The written erosion control measures designed to meet
the requirements of this subchapter, as outlined in §
151.052.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, stockpiling, land filling,
transporting, and grading.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from site of origin.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity has been proposed, or occurs.
   SWCD. The County Soil and Water Conservation District, a subdivision of the
state government charged with the responsibility of establishing programs and
setting policies to protect the natural resources within the county.
   WORKING DAY. A calendar day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and county-
recognized holidays.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.049 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land disturbing activities within the
county, and should be considered in planning and engaging in those activities
in compliance with this subchapter.
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts and
fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be left
undisturbed wherever possible.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused
by changed soil and surface conditions (impervious areas) during and after
development.
   (E)   Length and steepness of slopes should be minimized to reduce erosion
potential.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.050 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS FOR EROSION CONTROL
MEASURES.
   All erosion control measures, including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this subchapter, shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications for erosion control measures outlined in the Indiana Handbook
for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, published by the State Department of
Natural Resources, as supplemented or revised, and/or the Natural Resource
Conservation Service Field Office Technical Guide, as either, or both, are
applicable.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.051 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites.
   (A)   Appropriate erosion control measures shall be installed prior to any
land disturbing activity and thereafter whenever necessary.
   (B)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
erosion control measures appropriate to minimize sedimentation.
   (C)   Water shall not be discharged from the site in a manner that causes
erosion at or downstream of the point of discharge.
   (D)   All access to disturbed sites that cross a natural watercourse, ditch,
drainage easement, or swale/channel shall have a culvert of appropriate size,
or low water crossing which does not impede the flow of water.
   (E)   (1)   Wastes or unused building materials, including, but not limited
to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials, and
hazardous substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a site.
      (2)   All wastes shall be disposed of in a proper manner.
   (F)   Soil being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways shall
be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a temporary gravel
construction entrance, in addition to a well-planned layout of roads, access
drives, and parking areas.
   (G)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Accumulated sediment shall be returned to the point of origin in a
timely fashion not to exceed 24 hours.
   (H)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation with
barriers meeting accepted criteria, standards, and specifications as specified
in §
151.050.
   (I)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas should be controlled
by diverting it around disturbed areas within the site where practical.
Diverted runoff shall be conveyed in a manner that will not erode the channel
and receiving areas. Alternatively, the existing channel may be left
undisturbed or improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
   (J)   Drainage ways and swales shall be designed and adequately protected so
that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause channel or
outlet scouring.
   (K)   All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days shall be
stabilized by seeding, sodding, mulching, covering, or by other equivalent
erosion control measures.
   (L)   During the entire period of land disturbing activity at a site, the
owner of the site shall maintain erosion control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this subchapter until the entire site is stabilized.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.052 CONTENT REQUIREMENTS OF EROSION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Projects that will disturb five acres or more of the site shall have a
written erosion control plan that meets the following requirements:
      (1)   A map of existing site conditions in adequate detail to show the
site and adjacent areas, including:
         (a)   Site boundaries and adjacent lands which accurately identify the
site location;
         (b)   Lakes, streams, channels, ditches, wetlands, and other
watercourses on and near the site;
         (c)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways;
         (d)   Map showing the location of the predominant soil types, as
identified by the County Soil Survey, or as determined by a certified
professional soil scientist;
         (e)   Delineation of vegetative cover, such as grass, weeds, brush,
and trees;
         (f)   Location and dimensions of stormwater drainage systems and
natural drainage patterns on and immediately adjacent to the site;
         (g)   Locations and dimensions of utilities, structures, roads,
highways, and paving; and
         (h)   Site topography at a contour interval appropriate to indicate
drainage patterns.
      (2)   A site construction plan, including:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed land disturbing
activities;
         (b)   Locations and dimensions of soil stockpiles and borrow areas;
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of all erosion control measures in
compliance with the design criteria, as specified above in §
151.050; and
         (d)   Sequence of construction, including each land disturbing
activity, and the installation of erosion control measures.
      (3)   A plan of final site conditions on the same scale as the existing
site map showing proposed site changes;
      (4)   The erosion control plan shall be submitted to the County Board of
Commissioners or their designated representative for review.
   (B)   Projects that will disturb less than five acres shall be exempt from
the above provisions of this section, but shall comply with the other
requirements of this subchapter. Upon failure of such a project to so comply,
the County Board of Commissioners or its designated representative may enforce
this subchapter, as hereinafter stated.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.053 REVIEW OF EROSION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners or its designated representative
shall promptly review the erosion control plan for projects that will disturb
five acres or more to determine whether the requirements of this subchapter
have been met. In addition, the SWCD or its representative will review the plan
and provide the County Board of Commissioners or its designated representative
with comments on the plan.
   (B)   (1)   For projects that disturb less than five acres and do not comply
with the requirements of this subchapter, the County Board of Commissioners or
its designated representative, at its discretion, may require the owner of the
site to submit a written erosion control plan for its review.
      (2)   If the requirements of §
151.052 are not met, the owner of the site may be so informed in writing, and
may be required to submit additional information. Failure to comply with this
requirement may result in the enforcement actions set forth below in §§
151.054 and
151.999(C).
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 151.054 ENFORCEMENT, INSPECTIONS.
   When an erosion control incident is reported, in writing, to the county or
its agents, the procedures set out below will be followed.
   (A)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners or its designated
representative is authorized to enter the site for the purpose of investigating
non-compliance reports, and for verifying compliance with this subchapter and
any erosion control plan, or for performing any work necessary to bring the
site into compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   If entry is denied by the owner of the site, a court order may be
sought and obtained to permit such entry upon the site.
   (B)   The site will be inspected, and if it is found to not be in compliance
then recommendations will be made in writing and mailed or delivered to the
owner of the site or his or her agent.
   (C)   (1)   A second inspection will be conducted no sooner than ten working
days after recommendations have been made to determine compliance or non-
compliance.
      (2)   If the site is found to be in compliance, no further enforcement
action will be taken.
   (D)   (1)   A third inspection will be conducted no sooner than five working
days after the citation has been issued to determine compliance.
      (2)   If the site is found to be in compliance, no further enforcement
action will be taken.
   (E)   If, after the third site inspection continued non-compliance is found,
a stop-work order for the non-compliance site will be issued, and the county
may contract to have the recommended corrective measures completed at the
expense of the owner of the site.
   (F)   (1)   Any stop-work order issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not
be rescinded until all recommended corrective measures have been completed, all
penalties, court costs, and attorney’s fees imposed on the owner of the site
have been paid.
      (2)   Either the contractor employed by the county has been paid by the
owner of the site, or the county has been reimbursed for all its expended
costs.
(Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999)
UTILITY WORK IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 151.065 PERMIT SUBMISSION.
   Permits to allow work within the county road right-of-way shall be submitted
to the County Highway Engineer and Board of Commissioners no later than one
week prior to the next scheduled Commissioners meeting. The Board of
Commissioners meetings are held on the first Monday and the third Tuesday of
each month.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 151.066 MINIMUM, MAXIMUM NOTIFICATION.
   Prior to commencement of the proposed work within the road right-of-way, all
applicants shall be required to give a minimum of 24 hours and a maximum of 72
hours notification prior to the beginning of work.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 151.067 PERMIT BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All bonds shall name the “Board of Spencer County Commissioners,
Spencer County, Indiana” as beneficiary of the bond, and shall run for a
minimum of one year. Certificate of insurance is not acceptable for bonding
purposes. The bond must name the Board of Commissioners exclusively, and not be
subordinate to any other claims against the bond. The Board of Commissioners
will set the bond amount.
      (2)   In general, the following in division (A)(3) below are minimum bond
amounts that will be required by the Board of Commissioners, however, where
there is a higher risk to county infrastructure, or the permitted work is much
larger or complex than normal permitted work, the Board of Commissioners
reserve the right to increase the bond requirement after reviewing the
application for permit, and before approving the permit.
      (3)   The minimum bonding amounts are as follows.
Type of Work Bond Amount
Type of Work                         Bond Amount
Closure of county road               $1,000 per closure
House moving                         $30,000 per move
Maintenance bonds                    Equal to the initial permit bond amount
Open road cut                        $10,000 per location
Placement/removal of poles/overhead  $5,000 per mile, or fraction of mile
lines
Push or bore                         $5,000 per push or bore
Tap pit (including a directly-       $5,000 per tap pit
associated push or bore)
Underground construction, grading,
trenching, or excavation parallel to $5,000 per mile, or fraction of mile
the road or mile
Vehicle weight restriction exemption $30,000 per permit
 
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners will allow applicants who intend to file
for multiple permits to have an annual permit bond for utility work in the
county right-of-way. The minimum annual permit bond amount requirement is
currently $25,000. The annual permit bond shall be written so that it
automatically renews, unless the surety gives a written notice 60 days prior to
the annual expiration date. The written notice must sent be by certified mail
to the County Board of Commissioners, Attn: County Auditor. At the discretion
of the County Commissioners, an annual permit bond may be allowed for house
moving and vehicle weight restrictions in a minimum amount of $100,000.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 151.068 TRAFFIC CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Manuals. Anyone performing work within the county road right-of-way
must conform with the requirements set out in the latest edition of the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices or the latest edition of the Handbook
for Traffic Control in Construction and Maintenance Areas, which is published
by HERPICC at Purdue University.
   (B)   Procedures, permit. The traffic control procedures must be followed,
even if a permit is not required for work in the right-of-way. A permit holder
must also provide all traffic control as set out in the conditions of the
permit. A road must not be completely closed to traffic at any time unless it
has been requested as a part of the permit, and the Board of Commissioners for
the county have approved a traffic detour plan.
   (C)   Guidelines for use of flaggers by utilities and contractors on county
roads.
      (1)   When working on a low volume road, the guidelines within this
division (C) may be used to determine if flaggers are not required on the
project.
      (2)   When the traffic lane is fully or partially obstructed by a
maintenance or construction operation, a flagger or flaggers, will not be
required, only when all of the following are met.
         (a)   The ADT of the given section of road is less than 400 vehicles
per day. If the ADT is not on record at the County Highway Engineering
Department, the County Highway Engineer shall determine if this criteria is
met.
         (b)   The work zone on any road (except a local residential street)
must be more than 400 feet from an intersection. On focal residential streets,
the work zone must be greater than 100 feet from an intersection.
         (c)   Motorists in both directions can see approaching motorist from
the opposite direction with no sight obstruction. In order for a vehicle to
stop, this means that the motorists shall have an unobstructed view from “d”
feet from their end of the work zone to “d” feet from the end of the work zone.
Posted Speed d* (feet)
Posted Speed d* (feet)
20           310
25           370
30           430
35           495
40           555
45           615
50           670
55           755
Notes to Table:
*d = length of maximum number of cars in storage + distance require for driver
to react + distance required for driver to stop
 
         (d)   The work activity does not create congestion or backup of over
five vehicles at any time. These shall be increased for wet pavement, gravel,
or on descending grades.
   (D)   Other information.
      (1)   Use 55 mph if not posted.
      (2)   These are guidelines based on the Handbook for Traffic Control
(HERPICC), the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (1988 IDOH),
and the Handbook of Traffic Control Practices for Low-Volume Roads in Indiana
(HERPICC 1984). These are only guidelines, and as specified in the manuals,
good judgment should be used in determining when flaggers should be used but
may not be required by these guidelines.
      (3)   The work zone shall include all cones making the taper protecting
the actual work area. Traffic control devices, placement of traffic control
devices, and requirements for flaggers (including clothing, procedures, and
locations) shall be detailed in the HERPICC Handbook for Traffic Control in
Construction and Maintenance Areas. A lane shall be considered partially
obstructed when a ten-foot lane for each direction of traffic can be
maintained.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 151.069 STANDARD PERMIT CONDITIONS FOR POLE LINES AND UNDERGROUND CABLES.
   (A)   General. Due to widespread inconsistencies in the location and depth
of buried cables, buried pipes, and pole lines, these provisions will be
standard conditions of approval of most all utility permits where there is a
right-of-way less than the recommended county thoroughfare plan right-of-way.
Plans should reflect these requirements when submitted for permit approval.
These requirements are necessary due to the limited right-of-way along many of
the county roads, and the problems associated with multiple utilities in the
right-of-way. The location of poles and guy anchors in the flowline of ditches
and the insufficient burial depth of cables and pipes has become a major
problem for the County Highway Department when maintaining ditches, shoulders,
installing signs, and other safety related items. Where sufficient right-of-way
exists, utility locations shall be as shown on the standard detail sheets
elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (B)   Pole lines. All poles shall be located within two feet of the edge of
the right-of-way. All new pole installations and guy line locations shall be
marked, and notification made to the County Highway Department a minimum of 96
hours before construction begins. Field adjustments shall be made at the
Superintendent or County Highway Engineer’s request for poles and guy lines
presenting drainage and safety problems.
   (C)   Buried cable and utility lines. All buried cables and utility lines
shall be located within four feet of the edge of the right-of-way with all
pedestals being located a distance of two feet from the edge of right-of-way.
All cables and utility lines shall be located a minimum of 48 inches below
ground level. Any variances shall be requested in writing, and have explicit
written approval by the County Highway Engineer. This requirement is needed to
allow for the installation of signs, guardrails, and the maintenance and
reestablishment of roadside ditches. If the permittee does not install his or
her cables or lines at this depth, he or she shall waive all rights to damages
incurred to his or her lines or cables made by the County Highway Department or
its contractors during its routine maintenance activities, and the installation
of guardrail at hazardous locations.
   (D)   All permits. Any permittee, or permittee’s contractor, who cuts an
underground drain tile, whether it appears abandoned or not, shall notify the
County Highway Department immediately upon cutting the tile. The permittee
shall then repair the tile as directed by the Inspector.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 151.070 PERMITTED WORK IN COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. A situation where there is an immediate need to perform repair
work on an existing utility service which has been interrupted or damaged, and
where the failure to perform such work would result in an immediate danger to
life or property.
      CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS. Those items commonly used in the constriction of
roads, buildings, landscaping, and the like, including, but not limited to,
stone, gravel, soil, mulch, timbers, brick, black, misses, lumber, sod, and the
like.
   (B)   All persons who desire to perform construction operations or other
work within the county’s right-of-way shall, prior to start of construction,
apply for and receive approval from the Board of Commissioners or its designee.
Permit application forms, supplied by the Board of Commissioners office, or the
Highway Engineering Department, and related exhibits shall be submitted to the
Highway Engineering Department to be reviewed and approved by the appropriate
agencies as specified by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   In the event of an emergency, the repairs of a utility may be
undertaken without first receiving a permit. However, in an emergency
situation, the entity making the emergency repairs must notify the County
Highway Department as soon as possible. In the event of an emergency during
non-work hours, a faxed notification must be made to the Board of Commissioners
or County Highway Engineer as soon as possible on a county supplied form. A
regular permit end fee must be filed with the County Board of Commissioners or
Highway Engineering Department within 72 hours of the time the work is begun in
an emergency situation. Any work completed as emergency work which does not
meet definition of EMERGENCY, as defined in division (A) above, is a violation
of this section. Any work completed without a permit, when one is required, is
a violation of this section.
   (D)   Fees for said permits shall be paid by check or money order made
payable to the County Treasurer, and shall be submitted with the permit
application. Fees for the permits shall be in the following amounts.
      (1)   For underground constructing, grading, trenching, or excavation
parallel to the road, the fee shall be $70 for each 400 feet of continuous
construction, or part thereof.
      (2)   For open cuts across or within the roadway, the fee shall be $5 per
foot of excavation with a $100 minimum. In the event the applicant specifies
that he or she will be using flowable fill as a backfill material so that
density testing is required, the fee will be $3.50 per foot of excavation. This
decision must be made prior to the approval of the permit in order for the
reduced fee to apply.
      (3)   For boring or pushes under the roadway, the fee shall be $50 per
bore or push, which includes a maximum of two pit excavations. Each pit
excavation shall not exceed 500 feet.
      (4)   For placement of a new pole and/or installation of new overhead
pole lines, and/or removal of existing pole lines, the fee shall be $100 for
each 1,000 feet of continuous pole line, or fraction of 1,000 feet. A permit is
not required when replacing or removing a single pole in an existing location
due to damage to the pole, or when installing new lines or making a utility
connection on an existing pole line. However, when a permit is not requited,
all other applicable sections of this code (including, but not limited to,
traffic control) still apply.
      (5)   For one tap pit less than 100 square feet in area, including up to
one bore or push under the road from the tap pit, the fee shall be $50. This
permit does not include any cutting of the pavement surface. Pits greater than
100 square feet shall be permitted as an excavation and a bore under division
(D)(2) above.
      (6)   Fees may be waived by the Board of Commissioners or the County
Highway Engineer. For construction or utility work in conjunction with a city,
county, state, or federal road or infrastructure projects, if the applicant is
the respective agency and the project is of benefit to the citizens of the
county. A permit shall be filed and approved.
   (E)   Any applicant, as required by the County Board of Commissioners or
County Highway Engineer, shall provide a permit bond running to the Board of
Commissioners in an amount designated by the County Commissioners. The bond
shall not expire in less than one year. Prior to the release of any permit
bond, the Highway Superintendent or County Highway Engineer will require an
inspection during and at the completion of construction. The bond shall ensure
that the applicant on the permit will complete all permitted work in accordance
with the requirements of this section, and any other applicable sections of
this subchapter. In the event a permit bond expires, or the bond company
cancels the permit bond, all work authorized by any permits already issued
using the permit bond have not been completed, and the County Board of
Commissioners have not released the bond, then said bond shall become
immediately due, and payable to the County Board of Commissioners. Applicants
who desire to do so may post an annual or continuous permit bond for utility
work in an amount designated by the County Commissioners. An annual or
continuous permit bond may not be used for drive or public road approach
permits. In the event an annual or continuous permit bond expires, or the bond
company cancels the annual or continuous permit bond, all work authorized by
any permits already issued using the annual or continuous permit bond have not
been completed, and the County Board of Commissioners have not released the
bond, then said bond shall become immediately due and payable to the County
Commissioners. At the discretion of the Highway Engineer, a maintenance bond
may be required from the applicant as a condition of releasing the permit bond.
A utility company having a certificate of authority or franchise issued by the
State Utility Regulatory Commission, and who has a continuous bond on file with
the County Board of Commissioners may use in lieu of the maintenance bond when
approved by the County Highway Engineer. All permits issued for cutting of a
road shall have a three-year maintenance bond, which cannot be canceled prior
to three years from completion of the road cut. If the bond company sends
notice that the bond is being canceled at any time prior to three years, the
total amount of the bond shall become immediately due and payable to the County
Board of Commissioners, and no additional permits will be issued to the
applicant.
   (F)   The recipient of a permit, and/or anyone working within the right-of-
way of a county road, shall comply with the following terms.
      (1)   Construction materials shall conform to the requirements of the
Standard Specifications of the Indiana Department of Transportation, and shall
be approved by the County Highway Engineer.
      (2)   Traffic control devices and flaggers shall be used to regulate
traffic safety if construction affects the flow of traffic, as set out in the
Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and as required by the
County Highway Engineer or the County Commissioners. Traffic will be maintained
at all times. If a road closing is approved, in accordance with this
subchapter, the permit holder will mark and maintain any detours approved by
the County Highway Superintendent or County Highway Engineer, and notify all
appropriate agencies of the time and location of the closing a minimum of 48
hours prior to closing.
      (3)   For utility trench backfill for cuts of the roadway, #53 aggregate
shall be placed, and compacted in lifts under the supervision of the County
Highway Engineer, or at the discretion of the County Highway Engineer. It shall
be tested for density by an independent resting laboratory. Flowable mortar, in
accordance with the specifications of the County Engineer, maybe used as an
alternate to #53 aggregate.
      (4)   Pavement shall be restored to a smooth permanent surface, as shown
in the county standards, or as required by the County Highway Engineer. The
permit holder shall maintain temporary patches in a smooth and safe condition
until permanent patching is accomplished. Temporary patching shall not exceed
30 days, except during the period from November 15 through April 15 each year
when the materials are not available. During this time period, the applicant
may leave a temporary patch in place, but a routine inspection shall be made by
the applicant to ensure the temporary patch is in good condition. The applicant
maybe granted an extension beyond the 30-day requirement at the Highway
Department’s discretion upon request with a justification. Aggregate surfaces
shall be restored in kind, and shall be stabilized to prevent loose material
which constitute as safety hazards.
      (5)   The filling of a curb or gutter line of the drainage system of any
road, with any material or pipe, is strictly prohibited. Any curb modification
shall require a driveway permit.
      (6)   Tree trimming operations do not require a permit to work in the
right-of-way, however they are bound by all of the requirements of this
section, and are required to obtain a road obstruction permit if they desire to
close a road.
      (7)   All sod, swale, side, ditches, shoulders, and other improvements
within the right-of-way, which is disturbed by any work or construction within
the right-of-way, shall be repaired or replaced in a condition equal to or
better than they were prior to the work or construction. For materials used in
the repair of any disturbed area, the County Highway Engineer, or the County
Commissioners, shall approve the method used to make repairs. The proof of the
condition of these items prior to work shall be the contractors or the
individuals completing the work responsibility.
      (8)   Anyone who cuts or damages an underdrain tile, storm sewer pipe, or
culvert pipe, whether it appears abandoned or not, shall notify the County
Highway Engineer immediately upon cutting the tile or pipe. The person cutting
the tile or pipe shall then repair the tile or pipe, as directed by the
Superintendent or County Highway Engineer. If the tile or pipe is a regulated
drain, then immediate notification and repair approval shall also be made to
the County Surveyor, or his or her designated representative.
      (9)   Loading or unloading any equipment on a county road which results
in an undue or unsafe restriction of traffic or damage to the pavement is not
allowed, and is a violation of this section.
      (10)   Crossing or traveling on a county road with a tracked vehicle
directly in contact with the pavement surface is a violation of this section.
Crossing or traveling along the road will be allowed; provided, suitable
protection (timbers, tires, and the like) is provided for the pavement. No
damage will be allowed to the pavement, structures, grading, drainage, and the
like. Failure to use adequate protection, or damage to the pavement, is a
violation of this section.
      (11)   Dragging or depositing mud or soil onto a county road from any
site is not allowed, and is a violation of this section. Cleanup of any mud or
soil on the road, due to accessing a site, shall be immediately after the
material is deposited. A site having a high volume of vehicles accessing a
muddy site shall have a full-time cleanup crew, or install cleaning mechanisms
in accordance with county approved best management practices.
      (12)   Allowing erosion of soils from a site onto a county roadway, or
into a county roadway drainage system, is a violation of this section. Anyone
excavating on a county right-of-way, or adjacent to a county right-of-way,
shall protect the county right-of-way from deposit of eroded materials, in
accordance with county approved best management practices.
      (13)   Depositing any construction materials, or the cleaning of any
equipment directly or indirectly into any county roadway drainage system, is
not allowed and is a violation of this section.
      (14)   Installation of sprinkler systems within the right-of-way is not
allowed. Any sprinkler systems installed within the right-of-way, prior to the
date of this subchapter, shall be relocated, at the owner’s expense, within
seven calendar days when requested by the County Highway Engineer or
Superintendent for road improvements purposes, or due to drainage problems.
      (15)   An individual or agency who has directed work to be done in the
right-of-way shall be jointly and separately liable for all actions taken by
his or her contractor or representative.
      (16)   Failure to stop work for any violation of this section of the
code, when so directed by an authorized representative of the County Highway
Department, is a violation of this section.
      (17)   Failures to provide traffic control, to provide a safe work site
(safety fencing, shoring, and the like), or comply with the conditions set out
in a permit, or as so directed by an authorized representative of the County
Highway Department, is a violation of this section.
      (18)   A permit is not required for surfacing or resurfacing of a
driveway; provided, it does not change any drainage flows and does not expand
the width of the existing drive. The maintenance of any drive and its
associated culverts will remain the responsibility of the applicant or
subsequent property owner, and must be maintained by the property owner in a
manner which does not interfere with the use of the right-of-way for its
dedicated purpose.
      (19)   Any improvements installed by permit, or without permit, within
the public right-of-way are done so at the risk of the property owner or entity
installing the improvements. Whenever the County Highway Engineer or
Superintendent determines a change is required or maintenance is needed in the
improvements, the applicant, subsequent property owner, or entity that owns the
improvements must make the changes upon notification, and within a reasonable
time limit at the owner’s expenses.
      (20)   No improvements can be made by any permit applicant which
obstructs or impedes an existing farm field entrance, or an existing farm field
loading area, without permission from the property owner. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to comply with this requirement.
   (G)   After the application is approved, the County Highway Engineer shall
issue a permit. Once work begins, the permit or a photocopy of the permit must
be on-site for inspection. The County Highway Engineer shall be notified at
least 24 hours in advance of construction, and when construction is complete,
in accordance with the procedures of the County Highway Department. An approved
permit will expire one year from the date of application, or 60 days prior to
the expiration of the permit bond covering the work being applied for,
whichever comes first.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
151.001 through
151.018 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. Each day of
such violation shall constitute a separate violation subject to the fine
hereinabove provided. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall, in no way,
limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in §§
151.001 through
151.018.
   (B)   (1)   As provided in I.C. 36-7-9-7, and in §§
151.030 through
151.034, the Hearing Authority, which affirms the order of the Enforcement
Authority, may impose civil penalties in an amount of up to $5,000 where the
Hearing Authority finds that there has been a willful failure to comply with
the order.
      (2)   As provided in I.C. 36-7-9-19, civil penalties may be imposed by a
court acting under I.C. 36-7-9-17 against any person if the conditions of I.C.
36-7-9-18 are met, in an amount not to exceed $5,000.
      (3)   In addition, as provided in I.C. 36-7-9-28, a person who shall do
any of the following commits a Class C infraction. Each day that the violation
continues constitutes a separate offense.
         (a)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order
made in §§
151.030 through
151.034.
(I.C. 36-7-9)
         (b)   Knowingly interferes with, or delays the carrying out of, an
order made under §§
151.030 through
151.034.
(I.C. 36-7-9)
         (c)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with person engaged
on property used in performing any work or duty under §§
151.030 through
151.034.
(I.C. 36-7-9)
         (d)   Fails to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27.
      (4)    Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of §§
151.030 through
151.034 be declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reasons, the remainder
of said §§
151.030 through
151.034 shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   (1)   If, after the second site inspection, continued non-compliance
of §§
151.045 through
151.054, is found, the County Board of Commissioners or its designated
representative will issue a non-compliance citation to the owner of the site.
The civil penalty for the citation will be no less than $100, and no more than
$1,000. If the penalty is not paid within 30 calendar days after the citation
has been issued, a lawsuit concerning the citation will be filed against the
owner of the site in the County Circuit Court (Small Claims Division), and any
penalty imposed by the court shall include court costs and a reasonable
attorney’s fees.
      (2)   If it is necessary for the county to contract to have the
recommended corrective measures completed as a result of a violation of this
subchapter, the owner of the site shall, following written notice, pay the cost
of any such work performed within ten days from the date of such notice. If the
owner of the site does not pay the cost of such work, within ten days from the
date of written notice to pay, the county shall pay the contractor who
performed the work, and all costs incurred by the county shall be entered on
the tax duplicate for the property on which the non-compliance site is located,
and the total amount of liability shall be subject to interest, penalty, and
collection in the same manner as all other special assessments.
      (3)   In addition, as provided in I.C. 36-7-9-28, a person who shall do
any of the following commits a Class C infraction. Each day that the violation
continues constitutes a separate offense:
         (a)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order
made in §§
151.030 through
151.034;
(I.C. 36-7-9-28)
         (b)   Knowingly interferes with, or delays the carrying out of, an
order made under §§
151.030 through
151.034; and/or
(I.C. 36-7-9-28)
         (c)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with person engaged
on property used in performing any work or duty under §§
151.030 through
151.034.
(I.C. 36-7-9-28)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever any individual or corporation is found to be in
violation of §§
151.065 through
151.070, an inspection fee will be required to cover the costs of enforcing §§
151.065 through
151.070. This fee shall be $100 per day per violation of each section of §§
151.065 through
151.070. This fee is due and payable upon notification by the County Highway
Department, County Highway Engineering Department, or County Commissioners.
Failure to pay the fee within 14 days of notification will result in the
withholding of all future permits to the individual or corporation, and
immediate submittal of the violation to the County Prosecutor for a judgment in
accordance with state code. At the discretion of the County Highway Engineer or
Board of Commissioners, this fee may be waived for an initial violation of §§
151.065 through
151.070; provided, the violator immediately corrects his or her violation.
Appeal of this fee may be made to the County Board of Commissioners at their
regularly scheduled meeting. If a formal appeal is made through the County
Highway Department, the fee amount due will not be required to be paid until
the County Board of Commissioners have acted upon the appeal.
      (2)   A person who violates §§
151.065 through
151.070 commits an ordinance violation. When a violation occurs, the
contractor, company, or individual performing the work and the owner of the
facilities being installed or construction shall be held in violation, either
jointly or separately. Each section violated, and each day for which the
violation remains, shall be separate violation. A judgment of up to $2,500 and
restitution of all damages shall be entered against a person who violates §§
151.065 through
151.070 per violation per day.
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999; Ord. 1999-09, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2006-1,
passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-5-2013)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
Section
   
152.01   General provisions
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Property address numbering system
   
152.04   Property addressing
   
152.05   Responsibility for property addressing and road numbering
   
152.06   Requirements for obtaining street addresses
   
152.07   Incorporated cities and towns
   
152.08   Enforcement
§ 152.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited as, the
“Addressing Ordinance of Spencer County, Indiana,” or “this chapter.”
   (B)   Compliance. No structure shall be assigned an address or street named
in any matter whatsoever in the unincorporated areas of the county except in
full compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set standards for
residences and other structures numbering and road naming in the county, and
establish the authority and methods to be used when assigning addresses to
properties in the county.
      (2)   These standards shall be used to establish residence locations
which will be used in the implementation of an enhanced 911 emergency response
system in the county.
      (3)   It is intended to provide continuity, avoid duplication, and
prevent general confusion regarding the location of developed parcels of land
in the county.
   (D)   Application. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with,
abrogate, or amend any covenants or other agreements between parties, nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or annul, or in any way interfere
with, existing provisions of laws or ordinances not specifically repealed by
this chapter, or any rules or regulations previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law relating to the listing of contractors.
   (E)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated land
within the county.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY. The County Commissioners shall serve as the
coordinating body in the county with the responsibility for assigning street
addresses within its jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate its addressing
efforts with the County Planning Commission, County Sheriff, local postmasters,
and large mailers in the county such as utilities, government, and the like.
   BASE LINES. Existing recognizable lines which divide the county into
quadrants or sectors. The intersection of Division Road and Center Line Road is
the center point of the county for addressing purposes. Division Road and
Center Line Road generally form the BASE LINE for the county.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The 100 number interval is the distance between grid lines,
or the point where the next highest block number designation is used.
   CUSTOMER (ADDRESSEE). A family, individual, residence, business, or industry
which receives mail at a delivery point.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway, or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by the county
assumes a frontage interval of 10.56 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from, and perpendicular or parallel to, base lines. These
lines indicate the point where block numbers change from 100 to the next higher
hundred. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel blocks at
the same distance from the base lines.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, development, or area of land which is
either now being, or will be, used eventually for construction of a structure.
   OUT OF BOUNDS ADDRESS. A term used by the U.S. Postal Service to designate
addresses that are out of sequence with other surrounding addresses. Often this
occurs when mailboxes are located on the back street of a property that faces
another street, or on corner lots.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER (CITY-TYPE ADDRESS). The numeric or alphanumeric
component of a city-type address which precedes the street name (for example,
5400 W Mariah Hill Ferdinand Road).
   STRUCTURE. A residential home, apartment building, business, or commercial
building, industrial or manufacturing building, or publicly-owned building,
which fronts onto a public street or road.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.03 PROPERTY ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Advantages of a property address numbering system. A street numbering
system and corresponding property addresses provide individual structures with
an exact geographic location in the county. City-type street/road addresses are
necessary in order to provide a structure with a specific and more accurate
identification for efficient mail delivery; to provide an easily identifiable
geographic reference point for quick dispatch of police, fire, and emergency
rescue equipment; to provide utility companies with a permanent address record
for billing and service calls tied to a specific structure; and to provide ease
of location identification for friends, service vehicles, or other individuals
trying to locate a specific structure or a county road. A numbering system
should make it easy for anyone to find the location of a county road or
residential property in a short period of time, and allow for a systematic
expansion of address numbers as community growth occurs.
   (B)   The grid coordinate system. The county will structure the naming of
its road system and the issuance of property addresses based on the Lyman/
Purdue Street Numbering System. The system is better known as the grid
coordinate system. The system utilizes two base lines which run at approximate
right angles to each other to divide the county into quadrants. Most of the
county roads are numbered based on their distance from the north-south and
east-west base lines.
   (C)   County road names and numbers. Existing county road/street names will
be retained where feasible. Some names will have to be changed to correct
duplications, multiple namings of the same road, and other factors causing
confusion. Road names will be used to delineate an assumed distance from the
base line. For example, County Road 250 S delineates that the road runs east/
west at a distance of two and one-half miles south of the center of the county.
   (D)   Property numbering intervals.
      (1)   Street addresses are assigned in increasing order from each base
and grid line. In the county, 1,000 potential property addresses exist for each
5,280 feet (one mile) of distance from the base lines. There are approximately
50 address numbers that will be available for each side of the street/road
within each tenth of a mile.
      (2)   All of those available numbers will probably not be needed,
depending on the density of development along the street/road. Therefore,
addresses occur at each 10.56-foot interval. A specific street/road address is
determined by measuring the number of 10.56-foot intervals between the grid
line to the front entrance of a structure. Crooked roads and roads running at
angles (not true north-south or east-west) will be addressed with the
predominant north-south east-west direction. Distances between address numbers
will vary in these cases.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.04 PROPERTY ADDRESSING.
   (A)   Assignment of official permanent property addresses.
      (1)   All residences, commercial, industrial, and public structures,
located in the county shall be assigned a permanent city-type street address.
Structures located on the south side of an east-west street/road, and those
located on the east side of a north-south street/road, shall have an odd-
numbered property address. Structures located on the north side of an east-west
street/road, and those located on the west side of a north-south street/road,
shall have an even number.
      (2)   In all situations, the County Planning Department shall make the
final determination of which street/road will be used for an address. The
criteria for this determination will be based on the layout of the property,
layout of the structure, and other factors that may affect emergency services
and mail delivery.
      (3)   Street addresses are to be assigned based on a measurement of the
distance from the grid line to a line perpendicular to the address road/street
that intersects one of the following: the structure, or the entrance to the
property that contains the structure.
   (B)   Determining a property address. An official street address shall
contain no more than five digits with the first digit, or the first two digits
if the structure is located ten or more miles from the baseline, indicating the
milepost or distance from the baselines. The third digit from the right shall
indicate the block number which will change each 528 linear feet. The last two
digits indicate the number of 10.56-foot intervals from the structure to the
nearest block or grid line.
   (C)   Placement and size of address numbers.
      (1)   Once a property address has been assigned by the County Planning
Department to a specific structure, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to provide visible and current address numbers on both the
structure and on the mailbox.
      (2)   The letters and numbers on the mailbox shall be in compliance with
the U.S. Postal Service regulations and recommendations. The house numbers
shall be at least three inches in height. The color of the numbering shall be
in contrast to its background. The address shall be placed on both sides of the
mailbox. In cases where an address is considered an “out of bounds” address,
the address name of the road/street shall also be placed on both sides of the
mailbox.
      (3)   The letters and numbers placed on structures shall be at least
three inches in height. The letters and numbers shall be placed on the main
level in a location which faces the street upon which it is addressed, and near
a main entry way and placed higher than the height of the entry way, the color
of the lettering shall be in contrast to its background. If side or back entry
ways open to a street, road, or alley different from the address, the side of
the structure shall also have the full address, including the address road/
street name, properly displayed.
      (4)   In situations where the mailbox is not located at the entrance to
the property, and address numbers on the structure are not easily visible from
the road, a sign displaying the address with at least three inches lettering
shall be placed at the entrance to the property. The lettering color shall be
in contrast to its background. An alternative method shall be to paint the
address on the curb in front of the structure. The lettering on the curb shall
be at least three inches in height in black with a white background.
      (5)   (a)   An address may be assigned to agricultural buildings and
other structures, and to lots and parcels, including tillable acreage, on which
a residence, commercial, industrial, or public structure is not situated.
         (b)   An address shall only be assigned to an agricultural building,
structure, vacant lot, or parcel upon request by the owner of record.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994; Ord. 2018-11, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 152.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY ADDRESSING AND ROAD NUMBERING.
   In the unincorporated areas of the county, the responsibility for the
issuance of street addresses shall be assigned to the staff of the County
Planning Commission. I.C. 36-7-4-405 grants a Planning Commission the power to
prescribe a numbering system, assign street numbers, and approve the naming of
all streets in platted subdivisions. The Planning Commission shall issue, and
keep a permanent record of, all property addresses within its jurisdiction, and
share said addresses with local postal authorities and E-911 personnel.
Determination of county road or highway names, or changes in such names, shall
be the sole responsibility of the County Commissioners. The Planning Commission
shall have a final approval in the naming of streets in platted subdivisions,
mobile home parks, commercial or industrial business parks, and the like under
its jurisdiction. Local incorporated communities shall have final approval in
the naming of roads and subdivision streets located within their corporate
boundaries.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR OBTAINING STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   (1)   A person or business who submits an application to build a new
structure in the county shall submit a plat or site plan as is normally
required to obtain a building permit. Prior to issuance of a building permit,
the Planning Commission staff shall issue an official permanent street/road
address for the structure.
      (2)   It is the official address that will be forwarded to postal
officials, the County Auditor, and local utilities. No other address shall be
used for identification of the structure.
   (B)   In no case shall an individual or business be permitted to assign an
address to his or her property, or a structure on that property.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.07 INCORPORATED CITIES AND TOWNS.
   The County Planning Commission and the County Commissioners do not have
jurisdiction over the implementation of numbering systems within the
incorporated cities and towns in the county. Numbering in these communities
shall be the responsibility of the local Planning Commission, town board, or
city council. However, the County Commissioners can require that city-type
addresses be implemented in these communities for purposes of defining
structures for E-911 identification. All structures in the county shall be
required to have city-type property addresses, including those in incorporated
communities. The rural route and box system now in place in some incorporated
communities may be eliminated, and city-type addresses shall be assigned to all
structures in the communities by June 1, 1995. Communities shall follow the
existing address system now in place in the community, or develop a logical
system which utilizes similar north-south and east-west base lines as described
in §
152.03.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
§ 152.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The 1994 Readdressing Project is designed to replace all rural route
addresses within the county’s jurisdiction with new addresses described in this
subchapter. Upon completion of the 1994 Readdressing Project, all properties
within the jurisdiction of the county shall be required to be in full
compliance of this subchapter within 90 days of notice of new assigned
addresses, or within 90 days of completion of the entire project if not
assigned a new address.
(Ord. 1994-9, passed 7-19-1994)
CHAPTER 153: DRAINAGE; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Stormwater Drainage Control
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Responsibility for administration
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Stormwater control policy
   
153.05   Information requirements of chapter
   
153.06   Construction and materials
   
153.07   Stormwater detention
   
153.08   Changes in plan
   
153.09   Determination of impact drainage areas
   
153.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Corrective action
   
153.12   Exempt projects
   
153.13   Variances, waivers, modifications
Storm Drain Culverts; Ditches
   
153.25   Limiting of placement of drainage tile lines within county rights-of-
way
   
153.26   Unauthorized filling of existing county roadside ditches
   
153.27   Cutting, crossing, disturbing ditches
   
153.28   Residential storm drain culverts and enclosures; policy
 
   
153.99   Penalty
STORMWATER DRAINAGE CONTROL
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that smaller streams and drainage channels serving the
county may not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff
resulting when land use changes from open or agricultural use to a more
urbanized use. Therefore, it shall be the policy of the county and its Drainage
Board that the storage and controlled release of stormwater runoff shall be
required of all new development, any redevelopment, and other new construction
in all territory of the county that is not located within a municipality. The
release rate of stormwater from developed lands shall not exceed the release
rate from the land area in its present land use. Because topography and the
availability, and adequacy of outlets for storm runoff, vary with almost every
site, the requirements for storm drainage tend to be an individual matter for
any project. It is recommended that each proposed project be discussed with the
Planning Commission office at the earliest practical time in the planning
stage.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The County Drainage Board shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted, or duties imposed, upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated, in writing, by the County
Drainage Board to qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of, or in the employ of, the County Drainage Board.
   (B)   The County Surveyor is authorized and appointed as the delegee of the
Drainage Board to administer and perform, on its behalf, all duties assigned to
the Drainage Board hereunder, and to work in conjunction with the County
Engineer, and to secure the Engineer’s approval of plans submitted. All
documents, notices, or other matters required to be filed with the Drainage
Board shall be filed in the office of the County Surveyor, 200 Main Street,
Courthouse, Rockport, IN 47635.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Drainage Board, and any subordinate employee to whom it
shall specifically delegate a responsibility authorized by this subchapter.
   CAPACITY OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY. The maximum flow that can be conveyed
or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to public or
private property.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse which periodically or
continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificial volume of storage within a floodplain
used to balance the loss of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill
or structures are placed within the floodplain.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining, or in actual contact with.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the passage of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal, or other impediment.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of stormwater in
storage (detention) basins, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school
yards, parks, open spaces, or other areas under predetermined and controlled
conditions, with the rate of drainage therefrom regulated by appropriately-
installed devices.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area from which water is carried off by a drainage
system; a watershed or catchment area.
   DROP MANHOLE. A manhole having a vertical drop pipe connecting the inlet
pipe to the outlet pipe. The vertical drop pipe shall be located immediately
outside the MANHOLE.
   DRY BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to be completely dewatered
after having provided its planned detention of runoff during a storm event.
   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
   EROSION. Wearing away of the land by running water, waves, temperature
changes, ice, or wind.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation, at all locations, delineating the maximum
level of high waters for a flood of given return period and rainfall duration.
   FLOOD OR FLOODWATERS. The water of any watercourse which is above the banks
of the watercourse. It also means the water of any lake which is above and
outside the banks thereof.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe, or any
combination thereof which is subject to inundation by the regulatory flood; or
any floodplain as delineated by Zone A on a flood hazard boundary map.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the river and stream which has been, or may
hereafter be, covered by floodwaters.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest floor of a building. If
a basement is included, the basement floor is considered the lowest floor.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the floodway,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement wall
foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
   GRADE. The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, and the like,
or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
   IMPACT AREAS. Areas defined and mapped by the Board which are unlikely to be
easily drained because of one or more factors, including, but not limited to,
any of the following: soil type; topography; land where there is not an
adequate outlet; a floodway or floodplain; land within 75 feet of each bank of
any regulated drain; or land within 75 feet from the centerline of any
regulated tile ditch.
   IMPERVIOUS. A term applied to material through which water cannot pass, or
through which water passes with difficulty.
   INLET. An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm sewer inlet.
   JUNCTION CHAMBER. A converging section of conduit, usually large enough for
a person to enter, used to facilitate the flow from one or more conduits into a
main conduit.
   LATERAL STORM SEWER. A sewer that has inlets connected to it, but has no
other storm sewer connected.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Drainage systems carrying runoff from an area of one
or more square miles.
   MANHOLE. Storm sewer structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm sewer or enclosed structure.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. Drainage systems having an area of less than one
square mile.
   OFF-SITE. Everything not on-site.
   ON-SITE. Located within the controlled area where runoff originates.
   OUTFALL. The point or location where storm runoff discharges from a sewer or
drain. Also applies to the outfall sewer or channel which carries the storm
runoff to the point of OUTFALL.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit resulting from a particular storm or flood.
   RADIUS OF CURVATURE. Length of radius of a circle used to define a curve.
   RAINFALL INTENSITY. The cumulative depth of rainfall occurring over a given
duration, normally expressed in inches per hour.
   REACH. Any length of river, channel, or storm sewer.
   REGULATED AREA. All of the land in the county that is not located within a
municipality.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on the average of once in a 25-year period, as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to the Board. If a permit from the National
Resources Commission for construction in the floodway is required (see §
153.04), then the regulatory flood peak discharge should be calculated by a
method acceptable to the Board and the Natural Resources Commission. This
REGULATORY FLOOD is equivalent to a flood having a probability of occurrence of
4% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream, and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or stream.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater released from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a RETURN PERIOD of 25
years has a 4% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drainage system to the total amount of
rain falling. A COEFFICIENT of one-half implies that 50% of the rain falling on
a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Material of soil and rock origin, transported, carried, or
deposited by water.
   SEMI-IMPERVIOUS. Land surfaces which partially restrict the penetration of
water; included as examples are porous concrete and asphalt pavements,
limerock, and certain compacted soils.
   SIPHON. A closed conduit, or portion of, which lies above the hydraulic
grade line, resulting in a pressure less than atmospheric and requiring a
vacuum within the conduit to start the flow. A SIPHON utilizes atmospheric
pressure to effect or increase the flow of water through a conduit. An inverted
SIPHON is used to carry stormwater flow under an obstruction, such as a
sanitary sewer.
   SPILLWAY. A waterway in or about a hydraulic structure for the escape of
excess water.
   STILLING BASIN. A basin used to slow water down or dissipate its energy.
   STORAGE DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or human-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through, or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features; canals; channels; ditches;
streams; culverts; streets; and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a tributary
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground, or collected in channels or
conduits.
   TRIBUTARY. Contributing stormwater from upstream land areas.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change, or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational, or public utility purposes.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural, or human-made
drainage way in, or into which, stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
regularly or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. See DRAINAGE AREA.
   WET BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN (RETENTION BASIN). A basin designed to retain a
permanent pool of water after having provided its planned detention of runoff
during a storm event.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.04 STORMWATER CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   It is recognized that the smaller streams and drainage channels
serving the county may not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey
stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the
storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for any development, redevelopment, and new construction located
within all territory of the county that is not located in a municipality.
   (B)   Possible exceptions to the requirements are residential or commercial
developments that increase the impervious or semi-impervious surfaces by less
than 43,560 square feet (one acre), or individual residential structures to be
constructed on lots situated within existing platted additions and/or
subdivisions, or on unplatted tracts. These projects may be exempt from this
chapter, but must submit an engineering scaled plot plan showing the entire
property, the proposed improvements, the existing drainage breaks and flow
direction and the proposed drainage breaks and flow directions. The plot plan
shall be submitted along with the building permit for the proposed improvement.
   (C)   Residential or commercial developments that increase the impervious or
semi-impervious surfaces by less than 43,560 square feet (one acre) are exempt.
However, a development shall be subject to this subchapter when the combined
sum of the impervious or semi-impervious surfaces initiated after the effective
date of this chapter is 43,560 square feet or greater.
   (D)   For those developments that will increase the impervious or semi-
impervious surface areas by more than 43,560 square feet, the release rate of
stormwater from developments, redevelopments, and new construction may not
exceed the stormwater runoff from the land area in its present state of
development. The developer must submit to the Board, detailed computations of
runoff before and after development, redevelopment, or new construction which
demonstrate that runoff will not be increased. These computations must show
that the peak runoff rate after development for the 50-year return period storm
of critical duration must not exceed the ten-year return period pre-development
peak runoff rate. The critical duration storm is that storm duration that
requires the greatest detention storage.
   (E)   Computations for areas up to and including 200 acres may be based on
the rational method, typical runoff coefficients are listed herein. For areas
larger than 200 acres, hydrograph techniques and/or computer drainage modeling
methods shall be used. Hydrograph techniques and computer modeling methods used
to determine stormwater runoff shall be proven methods, subject to the approval
of the Board.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.05 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER.
   The following information and data provided by a state-licensed professional
engineer or land surveyor engaged in stormwater drainage design, shall be
submitted to the Board at the time of application for a building permit for any
development, redevelopment, or new construction on real estate which lies
within the regulated area.
   (A)   Topographic and soils maps. A soils map of the proposed development
indicating soil names and their hydrologic classification must be provided when
soil conservation service (SCS) hydrologic methods are used. In addition, a
topographic map of the land to be subdivided, and such adjoining land whose
topography may affect the layout or drainage of the development, must be
provided. The contour intervals shall be one foot when slopes are less than 4%,
and shall be two feet when the slope exceeds 4%. On this map, the following
shall be shown:
      (1)   The location of streams and other floodwater runoff channels, the
extent of the floodplains at the established 100-year flood elevation where
available (regulatory floodway), and the limits of the floodway, all must be
properly identified;
      (2)   The normal shoreline of lakes, ponds, swamps, and detention basins,
their floodplains, and lines of inflow and outflow, if any;
      (3)   The location of regulated (legal) drains, farm drains, inlets, and
outfalls, if any of record;
      (4)   Storm, sanitary, and combined sewers and outfalls, if any of
record;
      (5)   Septic tank systems and outlets, if any of record; and
      (6)   Seeps, springs, flowing, and other wells that are visible, or of
record.
   (B)   Preliminary drainage plan. A comprehensive plan in preliminary form
(or in combined preliminary and final form), designed to handle safely the
stormwater runoff and to detain the increased stormwater runoff must be
provided. The plan shall provide or be accompanied by maps or other descriptive
materials indicating the feasibility of the drainage plan and showing the
following:
      (1)   The extent and area of such watershed affecting the design of
detention facilities, as shown on USGS quadrangle maps or other more detailed
maps, as required by the Board;
      (2)   The preliminary layout and design of proposed storm sewers, the
outfall and outlet locations, and approximate elevations of the receiving
stream or channel;
      (3)   The location and design of the proposed street system;
      (4)   The locations and profiles of existing streams and floodplains to
be maintained, and new channels to be constructed;
      (5)   The materials, elevations, waterway openings, and the basis for
design of proposed culverts and bridges;
      (6)   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained, enlarged, or
otherwise altered and new ponds or basins to be built, and the basis of their
design;
      (7)   The estimated depth and amount of storage required in the new ponds
or basins; and
      (8)   The estimated location and percentage of impervious surfaces
existing and expected to be constructed when the development is completed.
   (C)   Valley cross section. One or more typical cross sections must be
provided showing all existing and proposed channels.
   (D)   Site plan. A plan drawn to scale showing dimensions of the site with
existing and proposed storm drainage facilities must be provided.
   (E)   Final drainage plans. Upon approval of the preliminary drainage plans
by the Board, final drainage plans shall be submitted to the Board. The final
plans shall be provided or be accompanied by calculations, maps, and/or other
descriptive material showing the following:
      (1)   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channels in the development;
      (2)   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, outfall, and outlet locations and elevations, and the
receiving stream or channel;
      (3)   The parts of the proposed street system where pavements are planned
to be depressed sufficiently to convey or temporarily store overflow from storm
sewers and over the curb runoff resulting from the heavier rainstorms, and the
outlets for such overflow;
      (4)   Existing streams and floodplains to be maintained, and new channels
to be constructed, their locations, cross sections, and profiles;
      (5)   Proposed culverts and bridges to be built, their materials,
elevations, waterway openings, and basis of their design;
      (6)   Existing detention basins and ponds to be maintained, enlarged, or
otherwise altered and new basins or ponds to be built, and the basis of their
design;
      (7)   The estimated location and percentage of impervious surfaces
existing and expected to be constructed when the development is completed;
      (8)   The slope, type, and size of all sewers and other waterways; and
      (9)   For all detention basins, a plot or tabulation of storage volumes
with corresponding water surface elevations, and a plot or tabulation of the
basin outflow rates for those water surface elevations.
   (F)   Submittal and consideration of plans. Preliminary and final drainage
plans and/or construction plans shall be submitted to the Board 20 days prior
to its regularly-scheduled meeting. A stormwater permit review fee shall also
be submitted to the Board along with the preliminary drainage and/or
construction plans. The amount of the permit review fee shall be established by
the Board on an annual basis. The permit review fee will be used to cover the
cost incurred by the Board in review of all stormwater drainage and/or
construction plans, review of all hydraulic calculations, and review of
computer models for compliance with this subchapter. All preliminary plans,
final plans, and/or construction plans in compliance with the standards of this
subchapter shall be approved by the Board. The Board shall stamp such approval
on a copy of such plans and deliver the same to the applicant. The Board shall
approve or disapprove any preliminary plans, final plans, and/or construction
plans within 60 days of submission unless the applicant consents to a
continuance or extension. All approvals and disapprovals with written reasons
shall be incorporated into the Board minutes.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.06 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Construction. Specifications shall be in keeping with the current
standards of engineering practice, and shall describe the requirements for
proper installation of the project to achieve its intended purpose.
   (B)   Materials. Materials shall comply with the latest edition of the State
Department of Transportation’s standard specifications.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.07 STORMWATER DETENTION.
   The following shall govern the design of any improvement with respect to the
detention of stormwater runoff.
   (A)   Acceptable detention methods.
      (1)   The increased stormwater runoff resulting from a proposed
development should be detained on-site by the provisions of appropriate wet or
dry bottom reservoirs (basins) by storage on flat roofs, parking lots, streets,
lawns, or other acceptable techniques.
      (2)   Measures which retard the rate of overland flow and the velocity in
runoff channels shall also be used to control the runoff rate partially.
Detention basins shall be sized to store excess flows from storms with a 50-
year return period. Control devices shall limit the discharge to a rate no
greater than that prescribed by this subchapter.
   (B)   Design storm. Design of stormwater detention facilities shall be based
on a return period of once in 50 years. The storage volume and outflow rate
shall be sufficient to handle stormwater runoff from a critical duration storm.
   (C)   Allowable release rate. The allowable release rate of stormwater
originating from a proposed development shall not exceed the amount specified
in §
153.04.
   (D)   Determination of storage volume; rational method.
      (1)   For areas of 200 acres or less, the rational method may be used to
determine the required volume of stormwater storage.
      (2)   The following 11-step procedure may be used to determine the
required volume of storage. Table 6 in Appendix A of the ordinance codified
herein shall be used to compute the required storage volume. Other design
methods may also be used, subject to approval of the Board:
         (a)   Determine total drainage area in acres (“A”);
         (b)   Determine composite runoff coefficient (“Cu”) based on existing
land use (undeveloped);
         (c)   Determine time of concentration (“tc”) in minutes based on
existing conditions using the TR55 method (see Appendix B of the ordinance
codified herein);
         (d)   Determine rainfall intensity (“Iu”) in inches per hour, based on
time of concentration and using data given in Table 3 in the ordinance codified
herein for the ten-year return period;
         (e)   Compute runoff based on existing land use (undeveloped), and
ten-year return period (Qu = Cu Iu A);
         (f)   Determine composite runoff coefficient (“Cd”) based on developed
conditions and a 50-year return period;
         (g)   Determine the 50-year return period rainfall intensity (“Id”)
for various storm durations (“td”) for the developed area using Table 3 (see
Appendix A of the ordinance codified herein);
         (h)   Determine developed inflow rates (“Qd”) for various storm
durations (“td”), measured in hours (Qd = CdIdA);
         (i)   Compute a storage rate (“Std”) for various storm durations
(“td”) until a peak storage volume is determined (Std = Qd-Qu);
         (j)   Computer required storage volume (“SR”) in acre-feet for each
storm duration (“td”). This assumes a triangular hydrograph of duration
(“2*td”) hours with the peak flow of “Std” at “td” hours (SR = Std (td/12));
and
         (k)   Select the largest storage volume computed in division (D)(2)(j)
above for detention basin design.
   (E)   Determination of storage volume; other methods. Methods, other than
the rational method for determining runoff and routing of stormwater, may be
used to determine the storage volume required to control stormwater runoff. The
procedures or methods used must receive the prior approval of the Board.
   (F)   General detention basis design requirements.
      (1)   The maximum planned depth of stormwater stored (without a permanent
pool) shall not exceed four feet unless a six-foot high fence protects the
basin.
      (2)   All stormwater detention facilities shall be separated by not less
than 25 feet from any occupied building or structure.
      (3)   Safety screens having a maximum opening of four inches shall be
provided for any pipe or opening to prevent children or large animals from
crawling into the structures.
      (4)   Danger signs shall be mounted at appropriate locations to warn of
deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods, and other dangers
that exist. Fencing shall be provided if deemed necessary by the Board.
      (5)   Outlet control structures shall be designed to operate as simply as
possible, and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for
proper operation. They shall limit discharges into existing or planned
downstream channels or conduits so as not to exceed the stormwater release
rate.
      (6)   Emergency overflow facilities, such as a weir or spillway, shall be
provided in case the normal discharge devices become totally or partially
inoperative. The overflow facility shall be of such design that its operation
is automatic, and does not require manual attention.
      (7)   Grass, or other suitable vegetative cover, shall be provided
throughout the entire detention storage basin area. Grass shall be cut
regularly at approximately monthly intervals during the growing season, or as
required to maintain the facility.
      (8)   Debris and trash removal, and other necessary maintenance, shall be
performed on a regular basis to assure continued operation in conformance to
design.
      (9)   No detention facility or other water storage area, permanent or
temporary, shall be constructed under or within ten feet of any pole or high
voltage electric line. Likewise, poles or high voltage electric lines shall not
be placed within ten feet of any detention facility, or other water storage
facility.
      (10)   Detention facilities must maintain setbacks from private and
public water supply facilities as prescribed by the State Board of Health and
the Recommended Standards For Waterworks by the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi
River Board of State and Provincial Public Health and Environmental Managers.
   (G)   Dry bottom facility design requirements. Detention facilities, which
will not contain a permanent pool of water, shall comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Provisions shall be incorporated into facilities for complete
interior drainage of dry bottom facilities, including the provisions of natural
grades to outlet structures, longitudinal and transverse grades to perimeter
drainage facility, paved gutters, or the installation of subsurface drains.
      (2)   The detention facility shall, whenever possible, be designed to
serve as a secondary or multipurpose function.
      (3)   In excavated detention facilities, side slopes of 3:1 or flatter
shall be provided for stability. In the event of valley storage, natural slopes
may be considered stable.
   (H)   Wet bottom facility design requirements. Where part of a detention
facility will contain a permanent pool of water, all the items required for
general and dry-bottom detention storage shall apply except that the system of
drains required to maintain a dry bottom facility will not be required. A
controlled positive outlet will be required to maintain the design water level
in the wet bottom facility, and provide required detention storage above the
design water level. However, the following additional conditions shall apply.
      (1)   Facilities designed with permanent pools or containing permanent
lakes shall have a water area of at least one-half acre. If fish are to be used
to keep the pond clean, a minimum depth of approximately ten feet shall be
maintained over at least 25% of the pond area. The remaining lake area shall
have no extensive shallow areas, except as required by division (H)(3) below.
      (2)   In excavated lakes, the underwater side slopes in the lake shall be
stable. In the event of valley storage, natural slopes may be considered
stable.
      (3)   A safety ledge four to six feet in width is required, and shall be
installed in all lakes approximately 30 to 36 inches below the permanent water
level. In addition, a similar maintenance ledge 12 to 18 inches above the
permanent water line shall be provided. The slope between the two ledges shall
be stable and of a material, such as stone or riprap, which will prevent
erosion due to wave action.
      (4)   A safety ramp exit from the lake will be required in all cases, and
shall have a minimum width of 20 feet and exit slope of 6:1. The ramp shall be
of a material that will prevent its deterioration due to vehicle use or wave
action.
      (5)   (a)   Periodic maintenance is required in lakes to control weed and
larval growth. The facility shall also be designed to provide for the easy
removal of sediment, which will accumulate during periods of reservoir
operation.
         (b)   A means of maintaining the designed water level of the lake
during prolonged periods of dry weather is also required.
      (6)   For emergency use, facility cleaning, or shoreline maintenance,
additional facilities may have to be provided, or plans prepared for auxiliary
equipment to permit emptying and drainage.
      (7)   Aeration facilities to prevent pond stagnation shall be provided,
if required. Design calculations to substantiate the effectiveness of these
aeration facilities shall be submitted with final engineering plans. Agreements
for the perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities shall be
prepared to the satisfaction of the Board.
   (I)   Rooftop storage. Detention storage requirements may be met, in total
or in part, by detention on flat roofs. Details of such design to be included
in the building permit application shall include the depth and volume of
storage, details of outlet devices and downdrains, elevations of emergency
overflow provisions, and certification of the structural portion of the
building design plans by a professional engineer or architect.
   (J)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to provide
temporary detention storage of stormwaters on all or a portion of their
surfaces. Outlets will be designed so as to empty the stored waters slowly.
Depths of storage shall be limited to a maximum of eight inches in vehicle
parking areas so as to limit damage to parked vehicles, and so that access to
parked vehicles is not impaired.
   (K)   Underground tanks or pipes. Detention storage requirements may be met
in total or in part by detention in underground tank(s), or in a network of
underground pipes. Tanks must be of reinforced concrete construction unless
otherwise approved by the Board. Pipes must be reinforced concrete or dual wall
(corrugated exterior/smooth interior) high-density polyethylene (HDPE)
materials unless otherwise approved by the Board. Details of the underground
storage system and the outlet or release structure(s) to be included in the
building permit application.
   (L)   Retention basins. Retention basins (no outlet) are considered a last-
resort system. The Board may require the construction of a suitable outlet to
prevent the use of retention basins. A retention basin will not be considered
unless infiltration wells, dry wells, or other subsurface absorption system is
proposed in conjunction with the retention well.
   (M)   Facility financial responsibility. The construction cost of stormwater
control systems and facilities, as required by this subchapter, shall be
accepted as part of the cost of land development. If general public use of the
facility can be demonstrated, negotiations for public participation in the cost
of such development may be considered.
   (N)   Facility maintenance responsibility. Maintenance of detention/
retention facilities during construction and thereafter shall be the
responsibility of the land developer/owner. Assignment of responsibility for
maintaining facilities serving more than one lot or holding shall be documented
by appropriate covenants to property deeds, unless responsibility is formally
accepted by a public body, and shall be determined before the final drainage
plans are approved. Stormwater detention and retention basins may be donated to
the county for ownership and permanent maintenance; provided, that:
      (1)   The county is willing to accept responsibility;
      (2)   The facility has been designed and constructed according to all
applicable provisions of this subchapter; and
      (3)   All improvements have been constructed, approved, and accepted by
the county for the land area served by the drainage basin.
   (O)   Inspections. All public and privately-owned detention storage
facilities will be inspected by representatives of the county or the Drainage
Board not less often than once every two years. Inspection reports shall be
kept on file for at least six years, and shall be retained with the records of
the County Surveyor and County Engineer, or such other designee of the county.
   (P)   Corrective measures. If deficiencies are found by the Inspector, the
owner of the detention/retention facility will be required to take the
necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to do so,
the county will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien
rights, if necessary.
   (Q)   Joint development of control systems. Stormwater control systems may
be planned and constructed jointly by two or more developers as long as
compliance with this subchapter is maintained.
   (R)   Installation of control systems. Runoff and erosion control systems
shall be installed as soon as possible during the course of site development.
Detention/retention basins shall be designed with an additional 10% of
available capacity to allow for sediment accumulation resulting from
development, and to permit the pond to function for reasonable periods between
cleanings. Basins should be designed to collect sediment and debris in specific
locations so that removal costs are kept to a minimum.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.08 CHANGES IN PLAN.
   Any revision, significant change, or deviation in the detailed plans and
specifications after formal approval by the Board shall be filed in duplicate
with and approved by the Board or its designee, prior to implementation of the
revision or change. Copies of the revisions or changes, if approved, shall be
attached to the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.09 DETERMINATION OF IMPACT DRAINAGE AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board is authorized, but is not required, to classify
certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas, and to enact and
promulgate regulations which are generally applied. In determining impact
drainage areas, the Board shall consider such factors as topography, soil type,
capacity of existing regulated drains, and distance form adequate drainage
facility.
      (2)   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to the Board:
         (a)   A floodway or floodplain, as designated by the State Department
of Natural Resources;
         (b)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any regulated drain; and
         (c)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any regulated drain
tile.
   (B)   Land where there is not an adequate outlet, taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an impact drainage
area by resolution of the Board. Special requirements for development within
any impact drainage area shall be included in the resolution.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes, and is based on historical records,
engineering, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur, or
stormwater runoff depths may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This
subchapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater
damage.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the county,
or any officer or employee thereof, for any damage which may result from
reliance on this subchapter, or on any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.11 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.12 EXEMPT PROJECTS.
   Any residential, commercial, or industrial subdivision (major or minor), or
construction project thereon, which has had its drainage plan approved by the
Board prior to the effective date of this subchapter, shall be exempt from all
of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
§ 153.13 VARIANCES, WAIVERS, MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Drainage Board reserves the discretionary right to grant variances
from, waivers of, and modifications of this subchapter as it pertains to a
specific project. The Drainage Board shall hear and approve or deny any such
request for a variance, waiver, or modification of, or from the terms of, the
stormwater control subchapter, and may impose reasonable conditions as a part
of its approval.
   (B)   A variance may be approved only upon a determination, in writing,
that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially-adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this subchapter will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought;
      (5)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
comprehensive plan; and
      (6)   The adjacent affected property owners have been notified, in
writing, of the variance request by the persons seeking the variance.
         (a)   Hardship, where the Drainage Board finds that hardships may
result from strict compliance with the stormwater control chapter it may vary,
waive, or modify the requirements so that substantial justice may be done, and
the public interest served.
         (b)   In granting variances, waivers, and modifications, the Drainage
Board may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified.
         (c)   No request for a variance, waiver, or modification to or from
the express terms of this subchapter shall be acted upon until the applicant
has filed with the Drainage Board a certification of substantial conformity
with this subchapter and has filed, published, and served on affected property
owners a petition requesting a variance/waiver or modification of a specific
portion of the stormwater control subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -)
STORM DRAIN CULVERTS; DITCHES
§ 153.25 LIMITING OF PLACEMENT OF DRAINAGE TILE LINES WITHIN COUNTY RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   The installation within the county road right-of-way of drainage tile
lines and similar structures running parallel with and within the right-of-way
is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The placement of drainage tile lines made approximately perpendicular
to county road rights-of-way may only be made at grade, and any damage to said
lines by routine maintenance activities conducted by the county shall be at the
sole risk and responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Roadside ditches along the county roads shall not be excavated for the
sole purpose of providing an outlet for drainage tile lines from adjoining
property.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 9-19-2000) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 UNAUTHORIZED FILLING OF EXISTING COUNTY ROADSIDE DITCHES.
   (A)   No landowner shall fill or obstruct, or allow to be filled or
obstructed, on the landowner’s property any storm drain or ditch on the county
road right-of-way without prior authorization of the Board of County
Commissioners or their designated employee.
   (B)   There shall also be prohibited any plowing, discing, cultivating,
planting, or any other farming operations within the limits of a storm drain or
ditch as those activities are hereby deemed to cause obstruction to the proper
drainage of roadside storm drains and ditches.
   (C)   FILLING OF A STORM DRAIN OR DITCH shall be defined as the placing of
material other than water by any means in a storm drain or ditch which raises
the flow line so that the original flow of stormwater is impeded.
   (D)   The LIMITS OF A STORM DRAIN or DITCH are defined as follows: The area
between the intersection of the ditch foreslope with the roadside shoulder, and
the intersection of the ditch backslope with the existing grade, and within the
limits of the county road right-of-way.
   (E)   The natural accumulation of sediment in county-maintained ditches is
not to be considered as a violation of this section, unless it is determined by
the Board of Commissioners or its designated representative that the
accumulation of sediment is excessive.
   (F)   Any landowner in violation of this section shall be given written
notice of the violation delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the address listed on his or her tax statements for said property in the
office of the County Treasurer. Such landowner shall be given 28 days from the
date of receipt to correct the violation to the satisfaction of the County
Highway Superintendent. In case the notice is refused or not accepted by the
landowner, the County Highway Department may take remedial action to correct
the violation, and the county may then levy the fine referred to below. If the
notice is delivered and accepted, but the violation is not corrected within 28
days of receipt by the landowner, the county may then take remedial action to
correct the violation.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 12-27-1996) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 CUTTING, CROSSING, DISTURBING DITCHES.
   Anyone cutting, crossing, or disturbing drains for any reason, including for
purposes of construction, installation, or maintenance of structures or utility
lines, shall be required to comply with the following rules and procedures.
   (A)   No person shall construct, dig, or otherwise disturb a regulated drain
without first providing notice on forms provided by the County Surveyor and
agreeing to the regulations that follow.
   (B)   The construction shall comply with the following restrictions.
      (1)   Contact with or damage to subsurface tile/drains shall be avoided.
      (2)   When crossing an open ditch or stream, cuts to banks shall be
restored, stabilized with stone revetment, seeded, or otherwise to prevent bank
erosion.
      (3)   When boring/crossing through an open ditch, utilities shall be a
minimum of three feet below existing flow line and encased in a plastic or
steel sleeve. A sign shall be installed and maintained on the ditch bank to
identify the name, location, and contact information for the owner of the
utility or structure.
      (4)   When work is within or crossing through a county road right-of-way,
permits must also be obtained from the County Highway Department.
      (5)   The contractor or contracting authority shall be responsible for
and pay for all damages incurred to, subsurface drains and drainage ditches as
a result of the construction or cutting of the ditch.
      (6)   The contracting authority and contractor shall sign a hold harmless
agreement in a form provided by the County Surveyor’s Office.
   (C)   If, in the future, the County Drainage Board determines that
relocation of a utility line is necessary for the maintenance, construction, or
reconstruction of the drain, the cost of the relocation shall be paid by the
utility pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27-48.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-4-2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28 RESIDENTIAL STORM DRAIN CULVERTS AND ENCLOSURES; POLICY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No person shall enclose any storm drain or ditch on the county road
right-of-way, or install any culvert, pipe, tile, or tube therein, unless a
permit has been issued therefor from the County Highway Department.
      (2)   Any landowner who wishes to install a residential driveway culvert
or field entrance on county road right-of-way shall, prior to installation,
apply for a permit from the County Highway Department. Any permit which is
issued shall specify the minimum diameter of pipe required. The permit may
specify the material the culvert is made from and the amount and content of the
cover.
      (3)   Any landowner who wishes to enclose a roadside ditch or storm drain
on the county road right-of-way for any purpose other than a residential
driveway or field entrance shall, prior to installation, apply for a permit
from the County Highway Department. The landowner shall provide the Highway
Department with a detailed drawing of the proposed work, specifying the length
of ditch to be enclosed, location of inlets, and any other relevant
information. Any permit which is issued shall specify the minimum diameter of
pipe and the grades of the surface and fill which shall be required.
      (4)   The installation of the culvert or pipe shall be performed
according to the specifications set forth in the permit.
      (5)   The costs of the culvert or pipe, and all fill and labor, shall be
at the expense of the landowner. All maintenance and cleaning of obstructions
shall be the responsibility of the landowner. If the storm drain or culvert
becomes inadequate, or if it is improperly installed in violation of the
permit, the landowner shall bear the expense of correcting the violation. The
County Highway Department may remove any storm drain or culvert in the county
road right-of-way if such drain remains obstructed.
      (6)   The minimum diameter of a pipe or culvert allowed in the county
right-of-way shall be 15 inches. The minimum length of a pipe or culvert for a
residential driveway or field entrance shall be 20 feet.
      (7)   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the right to change or
amend the permit approval procedure, and to delegate that responsibility to the
County Engineer, or if there is no Engineer, then the County Highway
Superintendent as the employee to develop the permit forms, and to approve or
deny the permits described herein.
   (B)   Policy. In order to clarify the county’s obligations regarding the
installation and maintenance of roadside culverts within the county’s right-of-
way, the County Commissioners hereby establish the following as the policy on
all such culverts.
      (1)   The filling of any county roadside ditch for the benefit of the
landowner, which may require the installation of a storm drain culvert, shall
be governed by division (A) above, requiring the landowner to secure a permit
from the County Highway Department, approved by the County Engineer or the
County Highway Superintendent, and the purchase of such culvert by the
landowner. This section pertains to the new installation of driveways, held
entrances, and the filling of ditches for the aesthetic purposes of the
landowner.
      (2)   While the county may install residential driveway and field
entrance pipes or culverts, installation of pipes or culverts for any purpose
other than a residential driveway or field entrance shall be the landowner’s
responsibility.
      (3)   The maintenance of existing roadside culverts under driveways,
field entrances, and enclosed drains installed by the landowner to cover the
otherwise open ditch adjoining his or her property is the responsibility of the
landowner, as provided in division (A) above. If such culvert or enclosed drain
becomes obstructed, deteriorated, or otherwise insufficient, the county will
remove said drain after proper and adequate notification to the landowner, as
provided in said division (A) above.
      (4)   IMPROVEMENTS TO THE ROADSIDE DITCHES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COUNTY
shall be defined as any ditching performed by the county in preparation for the
paving of roads and streets within the county, and for the correction of
drainage problems along the county road system. The correction of drainage
problems caused by the nonexistence or inadequacy of one or more individual’s
culvert or enclosed drain within the county right-of-way may require the
landowner to purchase a properly-sized culvert if access to his or her property
is to be maintained.
      (5)   Where the county makes improvements to a county roadside ditch, and
in doing so creates a potential safety hazard to the traveling public, and
where it is determined by the County Engineer or Highway Superintendent that
the installation of a guardrail is warranted, the property owner may request
the installation of an enclosed drain in lieu of the guardrail. However, if the
property owner elects to enclose such drain, he or she shall purchase the pipe
and any required inlet structures. The county will furnish labor, and all other
materials necessary, to install such pipe.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2020-01, passed 3-3-2020) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any landowner violating §
153.26 shall be fined a penal sum equal to $4,000 per mile of ditch, or
increment thereof, but in no case less than $400 dollars for each violation
which requires cleaning by the County Highway Department. Such fine shall be
assessed and collected through the County Circuit Court as an infraction.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 12-27-1996)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, objectives
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   General provisions
   
154.04   Administration
   
154.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
154.06   Variance procedure
   
154.07   Flood insurance standards
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4,
granted the power to local government units to control land use within their
jurisdictions. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-
proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding, and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONES AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between
one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and this state.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities, but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure, or
any addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities, such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the flood-proofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been, or hereafter may be, covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream, and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management, it is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. The exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant
the requested variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance
is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic
or financial HARDSHIP alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially-
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost, and that is required to
bring a substantially-damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations, and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently-effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property-specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently-effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE, and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by the age of the building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter “A” is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed, and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.03(B). The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-
PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 through 4138, as amended, which states that no new flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator
finds has been declared by a duly-constituted state or local zoning authority,
or other authorized public body, to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances that intended to discourage or otherwise restrict
land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAS of the county
are generally identified as such on the county and incorporated areas flood
insurance rate map, dated May 18, 2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements, or any alteration
of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically-designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES, shown on recent FIRMS (B Zones on older FIRMs), designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall,
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C.)
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 154.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county shall be as delineated on
the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county
and incorporated areas, and the corresponding flood insurance rate map, dated
May 18, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, delineated as an A
Zone on the county and incorporated areas. The flood insurance rate map, dated
May 18, 2015, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site
is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better data that
meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be
submitted to the State Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available, as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective, less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance.
      (1)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
      (2)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between the mapped floodplain and actual ground
elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall
be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes, and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of the
county, the State Department of Natural Resources, or the state for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 154.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The Board of Commissioners of the county
hereby appoints the County Planning Commission Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter, and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; earthen fill; storage of materials or equipment; drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following
information is required.
      (1)   For the application stage:
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations, and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to the DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See
division (C)(6) below for additional information.)
      (2)   For the construction stage:
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor. The as-built certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer, and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall correct
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the survey, or failure to make said corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at
the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the flood-proofed elevation of a flood-
proofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a flood-proofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same (the Floodplain Administrator shall review the
flood-proofing certification submitted). The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the flood-proofing certification, or failure to make
correction required, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction, an elevation certification, which
depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation, is required to be submitted to
the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a flood-proofing measure,
the flood-proofing certification is required to be submitted by the applicant
to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator, and/or designated staff, is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.06(E) and 154.06(G)(1), and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection, and furnish upon request, local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently-effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially-improved structures in
accordance with division (B) above;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially-improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with
division (B) above;
         (m)   For stop-work orders:
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing, and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
         (n)   For revocation of permits:
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application, or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 154.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the
following provisions are required.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the FPG, or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical, and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of new construction, as contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, all
structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below
the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site, or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage;
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure;
and
         (g)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
      (2)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Should
the solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (or manufactured home) shall either
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two
feet above the base flood elevation) or be flood-proofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)(4) below.
Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood-proofed in lieu of being
elevated, if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
154.04(C)(2)(k).
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention, and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   (a)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated
structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
         (b)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by
foundation, and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade, shall be
designed to preclude finished living space, and designed to allow for the entry
and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each
opening, whichever is higher;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            4.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
            5.   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
            6.   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (5)   A residential or non-residential structure may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one-foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3:1.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (6)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following requirements.
      (a)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG, and
securely anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully-enclosed areas formed by foundation, and other exterior
walls below the FPG, shall be designed to preclude finished living space, and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(4) above.
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (b)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood.
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above
grade, and be securely anchored to an adequately-anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully-enclosed areas formed by the foundation, and other
exterior walls below the FPG, shall be designed to preclude finished living
space, and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (B)(4) above.
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on-site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and READY FOR HIGHWAY USE (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.    Meet the requirements for manufactured homes, as stated in
this section.
      (7)   Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet the following
standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG; and
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls, as
required for elevated structures in division (B)(4) above.
      (8)   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to
prevent flotation or lateral movement.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA
and/or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
      (6)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into or out of
the SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (D)   Critical facility.
      (1)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA.
      (2)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within
the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available.
      (3)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
      (4)   Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters.
      (5)   Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways.
      (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.03(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources, and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities, such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving, and the like, undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the State Department of Natural
Resources).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit, or letter of authorization (when applicable), has been issued by the
State Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in the
floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the State Department of Natural Resources, the
Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit;
provided, the provisions contained in this section have been met. The
floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for
construction in a floodway issued by the State Department of Natural Resources.
However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take
precedence.
      (3)   No development shall be allowed which, acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development will adversely affect the
efficiency of or unduly restrict the capacity of, the floodway. This ADVERSE
AFFECT is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least three-twentieths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (4)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping
standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe.
      (1)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit; provided, the
provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources; and
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued; provided, the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site; and
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this
section have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not
increase the regulatory flood more than seven-fiftieths of one foot and shall
not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (H)   Standards for flood-prone areas. All development in known flood-prone
areas not identified on FEMA maps, or where no FEMA published map is available,
shall meet applicable standards as required per this section.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Designation of variance and appeals board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of variance and appeals board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use,
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and/or
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
154.05(E) or (G)(1) may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
154.05(E) or (G)(1) will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.05(B) may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the cost
of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest-floor elevation (See division (E) below).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions, and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request (See division (E)
below).
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the
Floodplain Administrator in the office of the County Recorder, and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an historic structure, and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 154.07 FLOOD INSURANCE STANDARDS.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby assures the Federal
Insurance Administrator that it will:
      (A)   Recognize and evaluate flood hazards in all official actions
dealing with land use in flood hazard areas;
      (B)   Delineate or assist the Administrator in delineating special flood
hazard areas on maps of sufficient scale;
      (C)   Furnish, upon request of the Administrator, information concerning
the present use and occupancy of the floodplain;
      (D)   Furnish, upon request of the Administrator the elevations (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floors of new or improved structures
which lie in the flood hazard areas and, where there is a basement, the
distance between the first floor and the bottom of the lowest opening where
water flowing on the ground will enter;
      (E)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies, and private
firms which assist in identifying floodplain areas; and
      (F)   Furnish the Administrator copies of ordinances, summaries, maps,
and other such documents and information as required in § 1909.22 of Federal
Register 36 F.R. 18175-86, dated September 10, 1971.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 5-1-1972)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA, or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance, shall be deemed to be a violation of §§
154.01 through
154.06. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance, and be treated as
such in accordance with the provisions of the zoning code for the county. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $100.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The County Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 4-21-2015)
CHAPTER 155: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose; scope
   
155.002   Definitions
Accessory Use Solar Energy Systems (AUSES)
   
155.015   Roof-mounted AUSES
   
155.016   Ground-mounted AUSES
   
155.017   Application
   
155.018   Glare; approved components
   
155.019   Maintenance of AUSES
   
155.020   Energy conversion system distinctions
Commercial Solar Energy Systems (CSES)
   
155.030   CSES types
   
155.031   CSES-1 designation of use in districts
   
155.032   Approval process
   
155.033   Preliminary development plan approval
   
155.034   Final development approval
   
155.035   Safety and security plan; insurance
   
155.036   Notarized statement required
   
155.037   Final development plan time limitation
   
155.038   Improvement location permits and commencement of construction
   
155.039   Construction standards
   
155.040   Development standards for commercial solar energy systems
   
155.041   Additional development plan requirements
   
155.042   Setbacks and height restrictions
Post-Construction and Continued Maintenance
   
155.060   Decommissioning security
   
155.061   Waste removal
   
155.062   Modifications
   
155.063   Inspections
   
155.064   Complaints
   
155.065   As-built plans
   
155.066   Record of ground disturbance and road usage
   
155.067   Liability for drainage
   
155.068   Abandonment
   
155.069   Unsafe structures
   
155.070   Post-construction modifications
   
155.071   No preemption
   
155.072   Property value guarantee form
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to those zoning
districts which allow or may allow solar energy systems and to govern the
siting, development, operation, rehabilitation, decommissioning and restoration
of solar energy systems, which generate electricity to be sold in the wholesale
market or retail market, or which are utilized to generate electricity for
private use and public use.
   (B)   No person shall construct, operate, or locate a solar energy system
within the county without having fully complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter and applicable rules of the Advisory Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to preempt other applicable state
and federal laws or regulations, nor shall any provision of this chapter
interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation,
statute or other provision of law. In the event that any provision of this
chapter imposes restrictions different from any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, statute, or provision of law, the provision which is more or most
restrictive or which imposes the higher or the highest standard(s) shall
control.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (AUSES). A solar panel, or array thereof,
used for a solar collection system principally used to capture solar energy and
to convert it to electrical energy or thermal power to supply electrical or
thermal power primarily or solely for on-site use and consisting of one or more
free-standing, ground or roof-mounted panel(s) or modules and solar related
equipment, intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power
and/or fuels. An AUSES may be used in all zoning districts as accessory
structures in each zoning district in which they are erected. The maximum size
of AUSES is limited to the maximum size allowed for an accessory structure in
each zoning district, and AUSES shall not be excluded from maximum height,
setback, or lot coverage restrictions.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION. Spencer County Advisory Plan Commission.
   AMBIENT BASELINE SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The L90 A-weighted sound pressure
emissions level (the level of sound exceeded 90% of the time) for a project
area prior to construction as determined by a baseline acoustics emissions
study.
   APPLICANT. The term APPLICANT when used in connection with or in respect of
a project shall mean the person(s) and/or entity(s) which is/are the developer
and/or owner of the project which prepares and files the initial application to
the applicable approval body, and the term shall include all successors and
assigns of the initial APPLICANT. The term APPLICANT shall not include any
person or entity which signs the application solely in the capacity as an owner
of an interest in real property on which a project shall be located. When used
in this chapter to affix liability or for a binding agreement or obligation,
APPLICANT shall include the owner or operator of the project that intends to be
legally liable or so bound.
   CO-APPLICANT. A person or entity which executes an application for a solar
energy system project solely because of an ownership interest in real property
to be used in connection with the project. The term CO-APPLICANT when used in
connection with or in respect of a project shall mean a person or entity which
executes an application for a project solely because of an ownership interest
in real properly to be used in connection with the project.
   COLLECTOR. Any power line whether above ground or below ground that carries
electrical power from one or more solar panels or transformers or converters
associated with solar panels to the point of interconnection with the
electrical power grid. In the case of interconnection with high voltage
transmission systems, the point of interconnections shall be a substation
serving the project.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (CSES). An area of land or other area used by
a property owner, multiple property owners, and/or corporate entity and its
contained industrial scale group or series of photo-voltaic (or solar) panels
placed to convert solar radiation into useable direct current electricity or
thermal power, and supply electrical or thermal power, primarily or solely for
offsite utility grid use, and consisting of one or more free standing ground
mounted, solar arrays or modules, battery storage facilities, solar related
equipment, and ancillary improvements, including substations, operations,
maintenance and storage buildings.
   COUNTY. Spencer County, Indiana.
   CSES NET SALVAGE VALUE. The net value of all of the saleable parts and
commodities which make up the CSES whether sold as used parts or on a
commodity/scrap basis or any combination thereof (whichever is greater) after
deducting all estimated costs and expenses of dismantling, removal, and
transportation and all costs and expenses of sale (including but not limited to
all commissions and fees) and the amount necessary to pay and satisfy all
liens, security interests, and other encumbrances attaching to the CSES. The
commodity/scrap value shall be based on the prior five years average scrap
value of the commodity.
   DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. The term DECOMMISSIONING PLAN with regards to a
project shall have the meaning and include the requirements set forth in §
155.060.
   DISTAL SOLAR PANEL. Each solar panel closest to an adjoining non-
participating property line.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. The term DRAINAGE PLAN with regards to a project shall mean
the Storm Water Management Plan approved by the Spencer County Drainage Board
for the project as required by §
155.034(C).
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between the applicant, owner
and/or operator and the county setting forth the applicant, owner and/or
operator’s financial commitment to support economic development and/or provide
other financial assistance in the county, or any portion thereof as required by
§
155.034(D).
   GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is installed
into the ground and is not attached or affixed to any structure.
   NON-PARTICIPATING (PROPERTY OR LANDOWNER). Property or the property owner of
land adjacent to the CSES project that is not participating in a solar energy
system project as co-applicant.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity which has the primary involvement with or
responsibility for the use, operation, or maintenance of all or a portion of a
solar energy system project. The term OPERATOR when used in connection with or
in respect to a project means any person or entity which has the primary
involvement with or responsibility for the use, operation, or maintenance of
all or a portion of a project.
   OWNER. The term OWNER when used in connection with or in respect to a
project shall mean any person or entity and his, her or its assigns and
successors in interest which has any ownership interest in any or all of the
necessary devices to convert solar energy into electricity. The term OWNER does
not include any person or entity whose ownership interest in a CSES is limited
to an interest in real property which is used in a CSES.
   PARTICIPATING (PROPERTY OR LANDOWNER). Property or the property owner of
land adjacent to the CSES project that is participating in a solar energy
system project as co-applicant.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (SYSTEM). A solar energy system that produces electricity by
the use of semiconductor devices called photovoltaic cells that generate
electricity whenever light strikes the cells.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted but limited to those structures in which
individuals dwell or are employed (but excluding small agricultural buildings
and barns).
   ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system located on the roof
of a lawfully established structure.
   SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN. The CSES project site safety and security plan as
provided by §
155.035(A).
   SOLAR ARRAY. Multiple solar panels combined together to create one system,
which may be small enough to serve as an accessory use solar energy system or
large enough to be paired with multiple arrays to create a commercial solar
energy system.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A system capable of collecting and converting
solar radiation into heat or mechanical or electrical energy and transferring
these forms of energy by a separate apparatus to storage or to point of use,
including, but not limited to, water heating, space heating or cooling,
electric energy generation, or mechanical energy generation. This definition
shall include solar thermal, photovoltaic, and passive solar systems and both
large-scale commercial and small-scale accessory use solar energy systems.
   SOLAR PANEL. A device for the direct conversion of sunlight into useable
solar energy (including electricity or heat).
   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The detailed route plan used for construction and
maintenance by a project as required in §
155.034(B).
   VIEW SHED AREA. Means the areas of visual impact of a project as set forth
in §
155.033(F).
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
ACCESSORY USE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (AUSES)
§ 155.015 ROOF-MOUNTED AUSES.
   (A)   A roof-mounted AUSES is considered an incidental accessory use to the
principal use and allowed without an improvement location permit in all zoning
districts.
   (B)   Roof-mounted AUSESs shall adhere to the development standards of the
underlying zoning district including minimum setbacks, maximum height, and
maximum lot coverage. Where feasible, panels on residential structures facing
the front yard shall be mounted at the same angle as the roof surface with a
maximum distance of 18 inches between the roof and the highest edge of the
system. Roof-mounted AUSESs are subject to the rules of historic preservation
districts and restrictive covenants.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.016 GROUND-MOUNTED AUSES.
   (A)   A ground-mounted AUSES is considered an accessory structure to the
principal use and will require improvement location permits.
   (B)   Ground-mounted AUSESs shall adhere to the development standards of the
underlying zoning district including minimum setbacks, maximum height, and
maximum lot coverage. Ground-mounted AUSESs shall be located at least 100 feet
from the foundation of any neighboring residence and ten feet off all property
lines. A ground-mounted AUSES is considered a permitted use in zoning districts
designated A, R1, R2 and is considered a conditional use in said zoning
districts. Conditional uses require approval from the appropriate Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Ground-mounted AUSESs shall not be placed within any legal easement or
right-of-way, or be placed within any storm water conveyance system, or in any
other manner that would alter or impede storm water runoff from collecting in a
constructed storm water conveyance system.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.017 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of a ground-mounted AUSES, the landowner is
required to obtain an improvement location permit by filing an application with
the Zoning Administrator. An application for an improvement location permit
shall be accompanied by a site plan in accordance with the Spencer County
Zoning Ordinance, and additionally showing the location of all solar panels and
equipment and the location of the emergency disconnect for the equipment.
   (B)   The application shall include information regarding the type of solar
technology proposed, mounting methods, dimensions, generating capacity, means
of interconnecting, and manufacturer’s data.
   (C)   Evidence that the local electrical utility has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install a customer-owned SES must also be submitted with
the application unless no interconnection is proposed.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.018 GLARE; APPROVED COMPONENTS.
   (A)   Glare. The AUSES shall be designed and located in order to prevent
glare toward any inhabited buildings and adjacent highways or right of way.
   (B)   Approved components. Electric SES components shall have an
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing or approved equivalent.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.019 MAINTENANCE OF AUSES.
   An improvement location permit may be revoked if the AUSES is moved or
otherwise altered in a manner which causes the AUSES not to be in conformity
with this chapter. The AUSES must be properly maintained and be kept free from
all hazards, including but not limited to, faulty wiring, loose fastenings,
being in an unsafe condition or detrimental to public health, safety, or
general welfare. In the event of a violation of any of the foregoing
provisions, the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice specifying the
violation to the owner of the AUSES to conform or to remove the AUSES.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.020 ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM DISTINCTIONS.
   Only photovoltaic and thermal solar energy conversion systems may be
installed in the county. Concentrated solar power systems may not be installed
in the county. Acreage is measured from all applicable property boundaries
seeking contingent use and the totality of the solar generation facilities
including any transmission lines, substations, energy storage or electrical
support buildings. Any solar energy generation facilities intended to be
operated as an integrated system shall be regulated according to the aggregate
total acreage. Any subsequent phase of an approved project shall meet the
criteria required of the total acreage of all phases.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (CSES)
§ 155.030 CSES TYPES.
 
TYPE   ACREAGE                            OTHER
CSES-1 Greater than 20 acres              Electricity sold to utility
                                          transmission lines
CSES-2 More than one acre up to 20 acres  Electricity used primarily for on-
       on one or more properties          site use
                                          Electricity exclusively behind the
CSES-3 One acre or less and one landowner meter generation for single property
                                          owner
 
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.031 CSES-1 DESIGNATION OF USE IN DISTRICTS.
   Commercial solar energy systems may be located in zoning districts
designated I1 and I2. After being zoned industrial, a special exception shall
be applied for in regards to operation of a CSES-1. No improvement location
permits shall be issued to any applicant without the Advisory Plan Commission
or Board of Zoning Appeals granting preliminary and final approval at public
hearings. No construction of a CSES shall commence before issuance of an
improvement location permit by the Zoning Administrator. Prior to the issuance
of an improvement location permit, the applicant, owner, and operator shall be
required to obtain the necessary materials listed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.032 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   All Tier 1 and Tier 2 projects subject to this chapter shall be
considered at two public hearings before the Advisory Plan Commission and shall
comply with all requirements of this chapter. The first hearing shall consider
granting preliminary approval. The second hearing shall consider granting final
approval. Final approval may not be granted sooner than 56 days after
preliminary approval absent extraordinary circumstances proven by the applicant
to the satisfaction of the Advisory Plan Commission.
   (B)   Tier 3 projects are required to submit only a final development plan
and need only one hearing for consideration and approval of a final development
plan. Tier 3 projects need submit only the following with its final development
plan application: §
155.034 and coordination with any applicable agencies listed in §
155.033(E).
   (C)   An application for any use designated as a special exception shall be
heard by the Board of Zoning Appeals prior to submission of a site development
plan to the Advisory Plan Commission. Applicant may submit the preliminary site
development plan and the special exception application at the same time,
however, the BZA must take action on industrial zoning decisions prior to
issuance of a special exception application prior to the public hearing on a
preliminary site development plan before the Advisory Plan Commission.
   (D)   Following final approval, the applicant must comply with the
requirements as set forth in this chapter with respect to receiving improvement
location permits for the project.
   (E)   All information provided and gathered during a preliminary development
plan review and/or a final development plan review may be used by the
Commission in determining whether to approve or disapprove the plan and, if
approved, what reasonable additional restrictions or provisions shall be
included in the plan in addition to those outlined herein.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.033 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   A completed application for preliminary development plan approval signed by
the applicant shall be filed with the Advisory Plan Commission. If the
applicant is not the owner of the real property on which the project is sited,
all property owners of the real property where the project is to be located
must be co-applicants. The application shall include the following items
submitted in both hard copy and electronic format.
   (A)   Project summary. An initial project summary including description of
the project stating the approximate total name plate generating capacity and
the name plate generating capacity of each solar panel, the total acreage
included in the project and the GIS coordinates of the general outline of the
project area, the potential equipment manufacturers and the type of solar
energy conversion system to be used, the number of solar panels, the size and
maximum height of the solar panels, and description of substations, power
inverters, maintenance structures, storage yards, permanent solar resource
monitoring structures and equipment, and other buildings that are a direct
functional part of the project. If any part of the project will include battery
storage, the kinds of batteries to be used, the manufacturer, and the type of
installation shall also be included.
   (B)   Applicant and co-applicants. A description of the applicant, owner and
operator and any other responsible party and if applicable each of their
intermediate and ultimate parent companies, listing experience in similar
projects and gross capitalization. List names, addresses, email addresses,
websites and phone numbers of the applicants, owners and operators and all co-
applicants.
   (C)   Maps. A map or maps of the project site and surrounding half-mile
radius that shows the topography (at two-foot contours), political and natural
features of the project site. The map shall include the individual land parcels
by state tax parcel number property survey and clearly identify whether the
property is participating in the project or not. The map shall also identify
the zoning designations, all streets and roadways by classification, municipal
and township boundaries, residential structures, public lands, public and
private schools (include colleges and universities) existing utilities and
transmission lines, public safety facilities, governmental boundaries, public
recreational land, and any commercial or public structure such as stores,
churches, airports or landing strips. If more than one map is submitted, all
maps shall be drawn at the same scale. All maps shall be submitted in hard copy
and electronic format as specified by the Administrator of the Advisory Plan
Commission.
   (D)   Site plan. The applicant shall submit a site plan at an appropriate
scale showing the proposed location of the project facilities; proposed access
roads; substations; maintenance structures; storage yards; permanent solar
resource measuring or monitoring installations; electrical cabling; ancillary
equipment; and any other structures that are a direct functional part of the
project. Each contiguous row of solar panels and/or structure shall be assigned
a unique identification number on the site plan. In addition, the site plan
shall show: primary structures within one-half mile of any project; property
lines; including identification of non-participating adjoining properties;
setback lines; public roads; county regulated drains, open ditches or tiles
including private tiles if located in a public right of way; location of all
above-ground utility lines; location of all existing underground utility lines
associated with the site; recognized historic or heritage sites as noted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources; floodplains; and any wetlands based
upon a delineation prepared in accordance with the applicable U.S. Army Corps
of Engineer requirements and guidelines, and the location of any other
condition or facility regulated by any other agency having jurisdiction of
activity on the site. This site plan must also be distributed to all emergency
management agencies, fire departments serving any part of the project site, the
County Sheriff and the chief executive body of any incorporated city limit
whose boundary is within three miles of the project site.
   (E)   Coordination with applicable entities. The applicant shall submit a
summary report identifying the entities the applicant has communicated with and
coordinated with respect to the project. The report shall list the entity name,
the primary contact person at the entity and contact information, the dates of
coordination and list of documents submitted to each agency. The report shall
also transmit any comments, suggestions, concerns, approvals, or disapprovals
with respect to the project issued by the entity and/or communicated to the
applicant. The following entities shall be contacted:
Authority Purpose Type of Documentation When Required
Authority             Purpose               Type of Documentation When Required
Federal
                      Coordinate to reduce  Compliance letters
FAA                   any flight or airport for each solar        Preliminary
                      interference          project
                      Coordinate siting to  Any recommendations
DOD Siting, NOAA      mitigate radar        or comments received  Preliminary
                      interference or any   submitted to APC
                      other interference
                      Compliance with air   Any recommendations
EPA                   and water quality     or comments received  Preliminary
                      standards under NEPA, submitted to APC
                      Disposal of Panels
USFWS Indiana Field                         Any recommendations
Office Migratory Bird                       or comments submitted
Treaty Act (MBTA)     Compliance with any   to APC and part of    Preliminary
Eagle Protection Act, solar guidelines      Natural Resources
Endangered Species                          Report
Act
Army Corps of         Floodplain or         Designations and
Engineers             wetlands involvement  comments and permit   Preliminary
                                            if required
State
                      Historical
IDNR                  preservation,         Comments              Preliminary
                      Floodplains,
                      Archaeology
                      Erosion, Sediment
                      Control, Water
IDEM                  Protection,           Comments              Preliminary
                      Endangered Species,
                      Panel Disposal
Local
Private airport                             Any recommendations
authorities permitted Coordinate siting     or comments submitted Preliminary
by FAA and IAA,       process               to APC
including EVV and OWB
Spencer County        Drainage Plan         Drainage Plan         Final
Drainage Board        Approval
                      All
                      telecommunications    Any comments or
Telecommunications    owners and operators  recommendations
Infrastructure Owners with infrastructure   received from owners  Preliminary
and Operators         within two miles of   and operators shall
                      project boundary      be submitted to the
                      shall be notified and APC
                      consulted
 
   (F)   Visual impact evaluation report. The applicant shall submit a visual
impact evaluation report evaluating the visual impact of all solar panels on
properties within certain distances of the project. The report shall assess the
visual impact on all properties within the visual impact zones identified
below. Report must be conducted by a third party approved by Spencer County and
funded by the applicant or co-applicant. The following shall be included in the
visual impact evaluation report:
      (1)   A map depicting the dimensions of the proposed site, names and
addresses of adjoining property owners not participating in the project that
clearly identifies the setbacks distance in feet from each of the proposed
distal solar panels and adjoining property lines, the site of each of the
photographic simulations taken in the view shed area, town and city boundaries,
historic sites/districts, state and local designated scenic areas and roads,
recreational areas, open space and conservation areas, schools, parks, water
resources, military installations airports or landing strips, cell towers,
weather and radar stations.
      (2)   Detailed description of the potential visibility of each distal
solar panel and the methodology used to evaluate visibility within the
following view shed areas and maps of the applicable view shed area identifying
town and city boundaries, historic sites/districts, state and local designated
scenic areas and roads, recreational areas, open space and conservation areas,
schools, parks, water resources, military installations, airports or landing
strips, cell towers, weather and radar stations.
      (3)   View shed areas defined. One-half mile radius from each distal
solar panel adjacent to the project boundary.
      (4)   Photographic simulations of the view shed area in sufficient number
to capture the general visibility of distal solar panels and a map depicting
the location for each photographic simulation.
      (5)   Any mitigation measures proposed to minimize the visual impact of
the project.
   (G)   Noise evaluation report. The applicant shall submit a noise evaluation
report for each grouping of solar arrays and any substation or facility that
emits noise in the project. The report shall state the daytime and nighttime
base-line noise level at the primary dwelling on an adjoining non-participating
parcel, in the event permission for the receptor to be located at the primary
dwelling is not granted by the non-participant, than at a point on the property
line closest to the primary dwelling; the potential noise level generated by
the solar panels and inverters and any substation associated with the project;
the manufacturer’s technical documentation of the proposed solar energy
generating equipment noise levels. The noise evaluation report shall include
the project maximum levels of infrasonic sound, ultrasonic sound, impulsive
noise and prominent discrete tones generated and measured at the primary
dwelling on the non-participating parcel (or property line receptor if
permission not give as set forth above). The report shall include a map
depicting the noise study area radius, project boundaries, sound level
monitoring locations and the nearest receptor locations. The noise evaluation
report shall include any potential mitigation measures to minimize sound
levels. Report shall be conducted by a third party approved by Spencer County
and funded by the applicant or co-applicant.
   (H)   Telecommunications and wireless signals report. The applicant shall
submit a telecommunications and wireless signals report identifying any
expected interference with over the air communications and information
gathering and provide a verified statement that it will mitigate any such
interference. The applicant will coordinate its report with NOAA and any other
agencies dependent on wireless communications that may be affected. Report must
be conducted by a third party approved by Spencer County and funded by the
applicant or co-applicant.
   (I)   Natural resources impact report. The applicant shall submit a natural
resources impact report for the proposed project site. The natural resources
impact report shall include a detailed description of the potential natural
resource impacts as a result of the construction, operation and maintenance of
the CSES that includes identification and analysis of (a) topography, geology,
vegetation, soil types, water resources including wetlands, avian, terrestrial,
and marine wildlife habitats as applicable; (b) compliance with applicable air
and water quality standards; (c) compliance with any USFWS solar energy
guidelines as applicable; and (d) compliance with any site specific
recommendations made by IDNR or IDEM. The report shall include a study area map
with identification of any areas of importance such as bat habitat, flood
zones, wetlands and water courses evaluated in the report. The report shall
also include any potential mitigation measures such as open space, erosion
control, and habitat replacement to reduce the identified impacts on the
project area.
   (J)   Archaeology report. The applicant shall submit an archaeological
impact report for the proposed project site. The archaeological impact report
shall include a detailed description of the potential archaeological sites and
impacts as a result of the construction, operation, and maintenance of the
CSES. The report shall include a study area map with the identification of any
areas of importance such as previously identified sites. The report shall also
include any potential mitigation measures such as best practices to reduce the
identified impacts on the project area. Report must be conducted by a third
party approved by Spencer County and funded by the applicant or co-applicant.
   (K)   Cost reimbursement. For Tier 1 projects only, an agreement and written
undertaking with adequate surety, bond, or other accepted form of adequate
financial assurance must be submitted to pay or reimburse the county, the
Advisory Plan Commission, any impacted school corporation, and any other
impacted municipal corporation in evaluating the documents required to be
submitted for preliminary and final development plan approval. The costs to be
reimbursed shall include expenses and professional fees actually incurred
including but not limited to all electrical, structural, mechanical, acoustical
and transportation engineers, aviary experts, financial consultants, attorneys
and other professionals. Within 30 days of submission of an invoice, the
applicant shall pay or reimburse all such expenses. This obligation for payment
or reimbursement of professional fees shall continue so long as the CSES-1 is
in existence through the completion of decommissioning and its removal.
   (L)   Soil production factor. No land shall be rezoned or receive contingent
use for the intent of installation of a solar facility if the soil ID and
production factor reach a specified threshold. Designation of prime
agricultural farmland is based on the soil ID and its correspodning production
factor. The production factor ranging from 0.05 to 1.15, reflects the soil
composition, with higher values indicating better suitability for agriculture.
Any parcel with a soil ID production factor with an average of 0.90 or higher
shall be considered prime agricultural land and not be eligible for rezoning to
industrial or receive a contingent use permit. The area of interest (AOI)
established in “Soil ID Production Factor” could be delineated to reflect the
precise, contiguous land area being developed with arrays, buildings, and
utility and access infrastructure, but shall not include land area set aside
for conservation, designated prime agricultural areas or land otherwise
undisturbed by development. The Advisory Plan Commission and County
Commissioners shall consider any AOI with an average production factor of 0.90
or greater as prime agricultural land.
   (M)   Protection of wetlands, waterways, floodplains. Owner/operator shall
conduct a thorough inventory of wetlands, waterways and floodplains within and
adjacent to the designated solar installation area. The ordinance mandates the
delineation of these sensitive areas, employing recognized techniques and
methodologies. Owner/operators are required to avoid encroachment upon these
areas during construction and operation phases. To mitigate potential drainage
and sedimentation issues, the implementation of sediment ponds or other
appropriate techniques shall be enforced to capture and divert water runoff
away from these environmentally sensitive zones.
   (N)   Well testing. All residential, commercial and industrial wells within
a three-and-one-half mile radius of each distal solar panel shall be tested
once a month for a period of six months prior to final approval being sought
for the solar installation. Following the approval and commencement of solar
operation, each well inside the perimeter of the three-and-one-half mile radius
shall be tested once every six months throughout the life of the solar
installation. For a period of five years after the completion of
decommissioning of the solar facility, the wells within the designated area
shall continue to be tested every six months to ensure any potential long-term
impacts are properly monitored. All costs related to the well testing and
remedial measures will be assumed by the owner/operator of the CSES-1.
      (1)   Water quality parameters. The testing shall assess various water
quality parameters, including but not limited to PH levels, turbidity, total
dissolved solids (TDS), heavy metals, nitrates, and coliform bacteria, as per
the local and state water quality standards. All well testing shall be
conducted by an independent laboratory certified by the appropriate regulatory
bodies, ensuring accurate and reliable results. The results of each well test
shall be promptly reported to the Spencer County Health Department (SCHD) or
any other designated authority responsible for monitoring environmental matters
within the county. Report must be conducted by a third party approved by
Spencer County and funded by the applicant or co-applicant.
      (2)   Compliance and remedial measures. In the event of any well test
result indicating water quality issues exceeding the acceptable limits, the
solar installation operator shall promptly notify SCHD and undertake necessary
measures to address the situation. The solar installation owner/operator shall
bear the responsibility for implementing any remedial measures required to
restore the water quality within acceptable standards. The operator must take
necessary actions promptly and in coordination with SCHD. Failure to comply
with the well testing requirements outlined in this chapter may result in
penalties, fines, or other appropriate legal actions, as determined by the
Spencer County Attorney’s office and in accordance with existing local
ordinances. This section of the solar ordinance codified in this chapter is
designed to prioritize the safety and protection of the water resources
surrounding solar installations within Spencer County. By implementing rigorous
and periodic well testing procedures, we aim to ensure the continued well-being
of our community and the environment.
   (O)   Community impact assessment. A community impact assessment will be
conducted by a Spencer County approved third party, including but not limited
to, a comprehensive economic impact, agricultural and tourism revenue,
employment and taxation, shall be required and shall assess the various project
tax and revenue options. Assessment must be conducted by a third party approved
by Spencer County and funded by the applicant or co-applicant.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.034 FINAL DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   After approval of the primary development plan, a petition for final
development plan approval shall be submitted to the Advisory Plan Commission
and shall include:
   (A)   Revised site plan. A revised site plan indicating any changes to the
site plan submitted for the preliminary development plan approval.
   (B)   Transportation plan. A transportation plan recommended by the CSES
Transportation Committee and approved by the County Commissioners including a
form of financial assurance acceptable to the County Commissioners for the
repair or replacement of all damaged roads, bridges, signage, or other
transportation structures during construction, maintenance, and operation.
   (C)   Drainage plan. A drainage plan approved by the Spencer County Drainage
Board and including a form of financial assurance acceptable to the county for
the repair or replacement of all damaged drains, ditches, and tiles (if in the
public right of way). The Transportation Plan and the Drainage Plan shall state
that any newly constructed access roads shall not impede the flow of water and
will comply with the county drainage ordinance. Plan must be conducted by a
third party approved by Spencer County and funded by the applicant or co-
applicant.
   (D)   Economic development agreement. The applicant, owner and operator
shall enter into an economic development agreement with the Board of
Commissioners of Spencer County and the Spencer County Council to address
matters related to economic development and the economic impact of the proposed
solar energy system project with respect to each Spencer County governing
entities duly respective powers. No abatements will be considered for CSES-1.
However, the applicant shall submit an economic development agreement approved
by the County Commissioners. The economic development agreement must be
developed in consultation with the Spencer Economic Development Organization
and the County Council. The economic development agreement shall include, as
applicable, estimated property taxes and any economic development payments,
estimated lease payments and overall cost and tax revenue impact on the county
as well as the estimated current economic impact of the project area in its
current use. The economic development agreement shall also include a property
value guarantee agreement in the form found in §
155.072.
   (E)   Development plan. The development plan shall be submitted with the
application for an improvement location permit and in accordance with the
Spencer County Zoning Ordinance, with a map or set of maps at appropriate
scales depicting the following items:
      (1)   Approximate location of all SES structures including:
         (a)   Location, number, and spacing of solar panels blocks.
         (b)   Substations.
         (c)   Maintenance and storage buildings.
         (d)   Transmission lines, collectors.
         (e)   Ancillary equipment.
         (f)   Identification, access, informational, and warning signs.
         (g)   Battery storage, if any.
      (2)   Boundary survey, or a reference to a previously recorded survey,
conducted in accordance with the minimum standards for competent practice of
land surveying as outlined in 865 I.A.C. 1-12.
      (3)   Location of fencing, screening, and buffer areas.
      (4)   Location of all access roads and access points.
      (5)   Location of all above ground and underground utility lines
associated with the site.
      (6)   Floodplain location and elevation, and wetlands if any.
      (7)   Location of all residences and other principal structures within
200 feet of the nearest SES structure.
      (8)   Location of all easements.
      (9)   Location of all security lights.
   (F)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan shall be submitted to
ensure that the project is properly decommissioned. The decommissioning plan
must be updated and approved by the Advisory Plan Commission every three years
after the approval of the initial decommissioning plan and after any material
improvements are added to the project, in the same manner as the initial
decommissioning plan. The standard process will be conducted every three years
with the engineer being selected by the county and paid for by the current
owner. The decommissioning plan shall include a contractor cost estimate from a
licensed engineer with experience in these matters for demolition and removal
of similar facilities. The estimates shall reflect and use local market rates
when applicable. The decommissioning plan will delineate the process of
beneficiaries and how the benefits will be distributed among Spencer County,
and the current landowners. The decommissioning plan shall include allocation
of fault to the current landowners for any failure to decommission the project
A decommissioning plan can not be approved without a detailed plan for how the
work will be conducted to restore it to its natural state. The decommissioning
plan shall include a requirement for obtaining a reclamation permit from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources (IDNR). All disposals must comply with
local, state and federal law, rules and regulations in effect at the time of
decommissioning.
      (1)   A decommissioning plan shall be submitted with the development plan
to assure the project will be properly decommissioned by the applicant or any
subsequent owner upon the end of the project life or abandonment. The plan
shall demonstrate how the removal of all infrastructure and remediation of soil
and vegetation will be conducted, and the expected timeline for execution of
the decommissioning. A cost estimate for decommissioning, determined by a
third-party professional engineering firm, shall be included. Salvage value may
not be considered in determining decommissioning cost.
      (2)   The decommissioning plan shall include financial assurance that the
project facilities are properly decommissioned upon the end of the project life
or abandonment consistent with this chapter. The financial assurance must be
made prior to the issuance of any improvement location permit. The applicant
shall secure and provide to the Board of Commissioners of Spencer County a
financial assurance in the form of cash for 125% of the decommissioning costs
and a performance bond, surety bond, or other form of financial assurance in an
amount not less than 25% of said third-party professional engineering firm’s
estimate that is acceptable to the Board of Commissioners of Spencer County
before the issuance of an improvement location permit.
      (3)   The obligations with respect to decommissioning shall include
removal and proper disposal of all physical material pertaining to the project
improvements to a depth of ten feet beneath the soil surface, and restoration
of the area occupied by the project improvements such that it is suitable for
an equivalent land use to what existed immediately before construction of such
improvements. The decommissioning plan must include proper disposal of all
hazardous material and operator must provide to the Advisory Plan Commission
the certification of disposal issued by the entity providing the disposal
service and/or the receiving disposal facility.
      (4)   In the event of a force majeure or other events that results in the
absence of electrical generation for six consecutive months, by the end of the
sixth month of non-operation the applicant must demonstrate to the Advisory
Plan Commission that the project will be substantially operational and
producing electricity within six months of the force majeure. If such
demonstration is not made to the Advisory Plan Commission’s satisfaction, the
decommissioning must be initiated six months after the force majeure or other
event. A force majeure event means fire, earthquake, flood, tornado, or other
acts of God and natural disasters, and war, civil strife, or other similar
violence.
      (5)   The decommissioning plan shall include the full written legal
description(s) of all participating properties from the last recorded deed(s)
or subsequently recorded project legal description. It shall also include the
record owner name(s) of the property(ies) from the last recorded deed(s), and a
cross-reference to the book and page and document number of those deed(s) as
recorded in the Office of the Spencer County Recorder.
      (6)   The decommissioning timeline must not exceed the following
standards: six months to initiate decommissioning and an additional 12 months
to satisfactorily complete the decommissioning from the time decommissioning
begins, with a cure rate of 15 days. Failure to adhere to any of these
stipulations should grant the county the opportunity to seek injunctive relief.
The same timeline will apply to operations deemed abandoned or non-operational.
If a facility operates at an average of 25% of its maximum operational capacity
for six consecutive months, decommissioning shall begin. If a facility operates
an average of 10% or less of its maximum capacity for three consecutive months,
decommissioning shall begin. Annually, the facility shall provide Spencer
County Commissioners with a monthly summary of production. Any deviation of
this section shall allow Spencer County to force decommissioning and seek
injunctive relief.
      (7)   Before an improvement location permit is issued, the
decommissioning plan shall be duly recorded in the Office of the Spencer County
Recorder.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.035 SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Safety plan. A safety and security plan shall be submitted
demonstrating provisions for site security and safety. If the plan includes
using Spencer County services, it shall include the signature of the proper
authorities indicating they are aware of their role and are capable of
performing it. A safety and security plan which must include adequate
provisions for general site security and overall site safety. The plan must
include detailed instructions and must be coordinated in conjunction with all
of the county services deemed necessary. These plans must be approved in
writing by the head of each county service that is being utilized for these
services. Coordination with local emergency responders and area hospitals must
be included. Applicants for new solar facilities, or a change in ownership of
existing solar facilities, shall coordinate with all of the intended county’s
emergency services staff to provide annual equipment, updated materials,
ongoing education and/or training to the departments serving the property with
emergency services on how to safely respond to on-site emergencies. Again,
these annual training events must be sanctioned and approved by the head of
each county service that is being utilized for these services. If at any time,
any of one of these county services feels the need for any information or
training materials, they must be presented to that county service, in a timely
manner and free of charge. Be it known that any response, either security or
safety, made to this facility, may incur a cost that may be billed to the owner
of said facility. That bill is to be paid as per the invoice and any late
charges will constitute a breach of contract with all services contracted with
the county for the facility and the site owner. A breach of contract with
county services will immediately be cause for site closure until those payments
are made in full and a new service agreement is made with all county services
covering that facility.
   (B)   Safety and warnings. All CSESs shall provide the following warnings
and safety information at all locked entrances:
      (1)   A visible “high voltage” warning sign;
      (2)   Name and phone number for the electric utility operator;
      (3)   Name and phone number for the site operator;
      (4)   The facility’s 911 address, GPS coordinates; and
      (5)   A lock box with keys as needed.
   (C)   Insurance. The owner and operator of a CSES shall maintain commercial
general liability insurance covering death, bodily injury, and property damage,
which may be combined with umbrella coverage, and shall be required to name
Spencer County, Indiana as an additional insured solely to the extent of
liabilities arising under this chapter. In such amounts as agreed upon in the
safety and security plan.
   (D)   Coordination report. The applicant shall submit a final summary report
identifying the applicable federal, and state entities with permitting
authority in respect to environmental, health, and safety standards and
regulations, and identifying the entities the applicant has communicated and
coordinated with in respect to the project.
   (E)   Waste handling and disposal. All solid waste, whether generated from
supplies, equipment, permits, packaging, operation, or maintenance of the
facility, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in accordance
with all local, state and federal laws. All hazardous waste related to the
construction, operation, maintenance, or decommissioning of the facility shall
be handled, stored, transported, and disposed of in accordance with all local,
state, and federal laws.
   (F)   Additional assurances. All bonds, sureties, letters of credit or other
financial assurances provided under this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect upon any transfer, assignment, or conveyance of an ownership interest
until the successor in interest delivers an accepted replacement obligation.
The transfer, assignment or conveyance of an ownership interest in the project
without the advance approval of replacement bonds, sureties, letters of credit
or other financial assurance shall constitute a default and shall not relieve
the responsible party of liability. However, the transfer of the interest of
the owner(s) shall be allowed without advance approval so long as the bond
surety, letter of credit or other financial assurance posted by the applicant
or operator covers the successors in interest of the owner(s).
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.036 NOTARIZED STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall provide a notarized statement acknowledging and
affirming the following with respect to the project.
   (A)   All duties and obligations of the owner and operator shall be joint
and several, and shall be binding upon each of their heirs, successors in
interest and assigns.
   (B)   At least 30 days prior to any transfer of ownership interest in the
project, written notice shall be given to the administrator of the municipality
where the project is located and the Advisory Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.037 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN TIME LIMITATION.
   An application for final development plan approval must be submitted no
later than 18 months after the preliminary development plan approval. If not
submitted within 18 months, the applicant must re-submit its preliminary
development plan for approval before submitting its final development plan. The
applicant may, but is not required, combine its preliminary and final
development plan approval into one submission in that case. No project may
exceed the total acreage approved in the final development plan by more than 1%
without further approval by the Advisory Plan Commission and Spencer County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.038 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
   After final development plan approval is obtained, but before any
construction commences or improvement location permits may be issued, all
applicable state and federal permits, approvals and licenses must be obtained
(with copies provided to the Advisory Plan Commission) and all state and
federal statutes and regulations must be complied with and the following
requirements satisfied.
   (A)   Insurance requirements. The owner or operator of the project shall
maintain liability policies covering (1) bodily injury and property damage and
(2) environmental contamination (pollution) arising from construction,
operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the project. Limits on the bodily
injury and property damage policy shall be of at least $2,000,000 per
occurrence and $5,000,000 in aggregate with a deductible of no more than
$20,000, and the environmental contamination policy shall be of at least
$2,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate. A minimum umbrella
policy of $10,000,000 per occurrence, covering both the liability policies and
environmental contamination for a total coverage amount per occurrence of
$12,000,000 respectively. Deductible for the umbrella shall not exceed $20,000.
All such policies shall name the county, the municipality in which the project
is located, and adjacent, nonparticipating land owners as additional insured(s)
and a binder showing proof of coverage shall be provided to the county on a
quarterly basis.
   (B)   Signage and contact. The applicant shall establish a 24-hour toll-free
phone number for the registering of complaints and concerns made available at
all parcels involved in the project. This number shall be posted at every
project service road intersection with a public roadway throughout the project
area before improvement location permits are issued and before any construction
or earth moving can commence. If legitimate complaints are not remedied within
24 hours the county may address these complaints with any expenses incurred to
be reimbursed by the applicant.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting. The applicant must attend a pre-construction
meeting between the Advisory Plan Commission Administrator, Advisory Plan
Commission President, County Building Inspector, Spencer County Commissioners,
Drainage Board Members, all county emergency services and any other public
officer or official whose input is deemed appropriate to verify that all
requirements in the chapter have been met. A quorum must be met for this
meeting for each designated body named. This meeting shall take place as the
final step before construction and all other requirements should already have
been met. Once reviewed, if all requirements have been met, the applicant may
then obtain improvement location permits. If any requirements have not been met
then further pre-construction meetings will be held until it can be verified
that the identified issues have been resolved.
   (D)   Fees. All improvement location permit fees must be paid for the entire
project before any improvement location permits will be issued. No improvement
location permit shall be issued if the applicant has overdue amounts owed to
the county.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.039 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Prior to and during construction, the applicant, owner and operator shall be
responsible for the following.
   (A)   Implementing reasonable dust control measures during construction.
   (B)   Complying with existing septic and well regulation as required by the
County Health Department, the Indiana Department of Public Health, and Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Repairing all damages to county owned or regulated or non-
participating landowner’s waterways, drainage ditches, field tiles, or any
other infrastructures caused by the construction or maintenance of the project.
Damages must completely be repaired to original or better condition, and so as
not to impede the flow of water. All repairs must be completed in a timely
manner and the owner, operator and/or applicant shall be responsible for loss
or damage proximately resulting from its impairment of such drainage
structures. All repairs to county regulated drainage structures must be
completed within ten business days as approved by the Spencer County approved
engineer, Spencer County Surveyor paid for by the applicant, owner/operator.
   (D)   Using concrete armoring techniques at each and every location where
county-regulated drains and subsurface power transmission lines of any type
cross. Unopened bags of premixed concrete shall be laid on top of the
transmission lines to cover six inches on both sides of the line and eight feet
to each side of the county-regulated drain the line is crossing. Open drain and
transmission line intersections where the line is below the invert of the open
drain shall be armored using the same technique. Red warning tape (printed with
“warning electrical line below” or similar language) shall be buried no closer
than 12 inches above the actual power line at all crossing locations. The
County Surveyor or agent designated by the County Surveyor shall inspect every
such crossing before backfilling. Concrete armoring techniques will not be
required in cases where directional boring is used.
   (E)   Installing permanent, visible markers where directional boring is
used. Markers shall be placed within the line of sight indicating direction
changes and borings.
   (F)   Submitting a weekly plan of work detailing where construction and
transportation activities will occur to the Advisory Plan Commission staff,
County Highway Supervisor, County Sheriff, County Surveyor, Soil & Water
Conservation District, the Superintendent(s) of the School District(s) in which
construction is occurring and to the emergency services with jurisdiction over
the areas in which construction is occurring. This shall include notification
of any oversize or overweight loads entering or exiting the project each day as
well as any work on roads, drainage, or access roads.
   (G)   During construction, roads shall remain open at all times except for
periods of time less than 20 minutes unless notice is provided as required
herein. Expected loss of capacity (i.e., temporary closures) greater than 20
minutes shall require notice to neighboring and affected property owners at
least 24 hours prior to the temporary closure, and either a detour to be
established or personnel to redirect traffic to alternate routes during the
temporary closure unless closed for the day by county highway. Any necessary
temporary closures and proposed detours shall be made known to the county at
least 24 hours prior to the temporary closure or as otherwise agreed.
   (H)   Adhering to the approved transportation plan, the County Highway
Superintendent and/or appropriate municipal road personnel shall conduct a
preconstruction baseline survey to determine existing road conditions for
assessing potential future damage. The County Highway Superintendent and/or
appropriate municipal road personnel may choose to require remediation of road
damage during or upon completion of the project and is authorized to collect
fees for oversized load permits. If repairs are not made in a timely manner,
the County Highway Superintendent and/or appropriate municipal road personnel
is authorized to make repairs and charge the applicant a fee to cover the costs
of repair. Such fees shall be established at the start date of construction and
may be revised at three-month intervals. Further, a corporate surety bond shall
be required by the County Highway Superintendent and/or appropriate municipal
road personnel to ensure the county of affected municipality that future
repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the county or affected
municipality. The bond shall not be released at the conclusion of construction
of the project, but it may be reduced to cover any damages or losses from the
operation and maintenance of the project. If the applicant or its contractors
require material changes from the approved transportation plan or if post
completion repairs, improvements, or expansions require oversize and overweight
loads or involve new routes, an amended transportation plan must be approved in
the same manner as the initial plan. Any violation of the approved
transportation plan may be subject to fines as provided in this chapter and in
addition, may also be subject to fines established by the governing body having
jurisdiction over the roadway(s) affected.
   (I)   Adhering to the approved development plans. Any non-material proposed
changes, modifications, or amendments to the development plans must be approved
by the Administrator of the Advisory Plan Commission and the Administrator
shall thereafter make report of the non-material changes, modifications or
amendments to the Advisory Plan Commission. All material changes to the
approved Development Plans.
   (J)   Cable strand. Adhered to for the installation of cable barriers along
any state, county or local road that is adjoining or adjacent to solar arrays:
      (1)   A minimum of four high tension cable strands shall be installed as
a barrier.
      (2)   The size of each cable strand shall be no less than 0.5 inches in
diameter.
      (3)   All posts and cabling shall be galvanized to ensure durability and
longevity.
   (K)   Cable barrier installation.
      (1)   Posts supporting the cable barrier shall be spaced no further than
ten feet apart.
      (2)   The top cable shall be positioned at a minimum height of 48 inches
from the topsoil.
      (3)   A mow strip shall be included to facilitate maintenance and prevent
vegetation encroachment.
   (L)   Terminal and anchor posts.
      (1)   Terminal posts, which mark the ends of the cable barrier, shall be
securely placed no less than 24 inches deep in concrete footings.
      (2)   Anchor posts, which provide additional support to the cable
barrier, shall be embedded no less than four feet deep in concrete footings.
   (M)   Maintenance and responsibility.
      (1)   The responsibility for maintaining the cable barrier system shall
rest with the county.
      (2)   The solar project owner shall bear the costs associated with the
maintenance, as determined by the county.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   CSESs shall adhere to the development standards of the underlying zoning
district unless specified otherwise below.
   (A)   All installed equipment shall conform to applicable industry standards
and the application shall include certificates of design compliance of the
proposed equipment from nationally recognized third parties in the business of
certifying compliance. The photovoltaic panels shall not contain harmful
chemicals such as cadmium or amorphous silicon. Prior to construction, the
applicant shall provide written panel specifications to include composition,
toxicological information, and the physical and chemical properties of all
panels used at the facility. The applicant shall also provide the supplier and
country of origin of the panels used at the facility. Only biodegradable
cleaners and water shall be used to clean panels.
   (B)   All electrical components of the project shall conform to applicable
local, state, and national codes, and relevant national and international
standards.
   (C)   A visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed at the base
of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
   (D)   PV solar panels and any associated equipment shall not be located on
slopes 6% or less and no site shall be graded more than 10% of the site surface
area.
   (E)   The facility shall provide at least one access corridor for wildlife
to navigate through the solar facility per 50 acres of acreage coverage.
Proposed wildlife corridors shall be shown on the site plan submitted to the
county during the preliminary approval process. The corridors shall be 25 feet
in width. Areas between fencing shall be kept open to allow for the movement of
migratory animals and other wildlife.
   (F)   The acreage coverage of a utility-scale solar facility shall be a
maximum of 200 acres. No utility-scale solar facility shall be located within
two miles of another existing or permitted utility-scale solar facility unless
the combined acreage coverage is 200 acres of less. Spencer County has allotted
a maximum 1% of total acreage for use to be developed for renewable energy
including CSES-1 facilities.
   (G)   Utility-scale solar facilities shall be within one-tenth mile of
electric transmission lines.
   (H)   Any other condition added by the Advisory Plan Commission and/or
Spencer County Commissioners as part of the approval.
   (I)   Lighting. Lighting shall be limited to that required for safety,
inspection, repair, maintenance, and operational purposes. If lighting is
provided, lighting shall be shielded and downcast such that the light does not
spill onto any adjacent parcel, residence, or principal structure. All warning
lights in the project shall conform to best industry practices to reduce
impacts on migrating birds and other wildlife. No red pulsating incandescent
lights or white strobe lights shall be installed. All lighting shall be in
compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations. All
lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the
boundaries of the project and installed lights shall be Dark Sky certified.
   (J)   Glare. The CSES shall be designed and located in order to prevent
glare toward any inhabited buildings, adjacent highways, or rights-of-way.
   (K)   Fencing. All solar panels and accessory buildings for the project must
be fenced in with a fence not less than ten feet in height. The fence shall not
be topped with razor/barbed wire. The fencing shall be landscaped with native
and non-invasive plant materials consisting of an evergreen and deciduous mix
as approved by county staff, except to the extent that existing vegetation and
natural landforms on the site provide such screening as determined by Spencer
County. Trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height at time of planting and
in staggered rows of ten feet on center. The effectiveness of screening shall
be maintained as the plant materials mature. Unhealthy and dead plants shall be
replaced within six months of being provided written notice by the county of
the violation. Opaque architectural fencing may be used to supplement other
screening methods but shall not be the primary method. A performance bond
reflecting the costs of anticipated fence maintenance shall be posted and
maintained. Failure to maintain the security fencing shall result in revocation
of improvement location permits and the facilities decommissioning.
   (L)   Noise. At any non-participating landowner’s residential lot, public
school, public library, or recreational area with three miles of the project
boundaries, for a period of more than 10% out of every hour, the audible A-
weighted sound pressure levels as a result of the sound emitted by the project
shall not exceed either, the greater of 45 decibels or, five decibels above the
ambient baseline sound pressure level of the project. The ambient baseline
sound pressure level, if used, shall be determined by a baseline acoustic
emissions study conducted by the County Advisory Plan Commission and funded by
the applicant. Measurement of sound and vibration levels shall be conducted
adhering to best practices within the applicable industry and in compliance
with all other applicable county, state and federal regulations.
   (M)   Outdoor storage. Only the outdoor storage of materials, vehicles, and
equipment that directly support the operation and maintenance of the facility
shall be allowed.
   (N)   Easements. Components of the CSES-1 shall not be placed within any
legal easement or right-of-way, or be placed within any storm water conveyance
system, or in any other manner that would alter or impede storm water runoff
from collecting in a constructed storm water conveyance system.
   (O)   All underground wiring required for operation shall be encased in
conduit.
   (P)   No CSES solar projects shall be constructed in a floodplain, floodway
their fringes or above an aquifer.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.041 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Revisions. All revisions to the approved development plan or
modifications to the CSES after installation require approval prior to being
implemented. The proposed revisions along with any supporting information shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review, to determine whether the
revisions are in compliance with the chapter. If the Zoning Administrator
determines that the revisions require Advisory Plan Commission approval, the
revisions will be forwarded to the Advisory Plan Commission for review. Once
sent to the Advisory Plan Commission, a public hearing is necessary,
notification of the public hearing will be consistent with the rules and
procedures of the Advisory Plan Commission.
   (B)   Approval. Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing
conducted in accordance with the Advisory Plan Commission’s rules of
procedures. Upon concluding the hearing for the Development Plan, the Advisory
Plan Commission shall state its findings with respect to the Development Plan’s
conformance to this chapter and determine the approval, disapproval, or
conditional approval of the application. The Advisory Plan Commission will
inform the applicant of its decision and any modifications or conditions to
which approval is subject. The findings and decision of the Advisory Plan
Commission will be entered in the official minutes of the meeting. The Zoning
Administrator will give written notice of approval, conditional approval, or
disapproval and the reasons therefore within five working days following the
public hearing.
   (C)   Construction. Construction shall commence within 12 months of the
approval date, unless extended by the Advisory Plan Commission. If construction
does not commence within such one-year period, the development plan approval
shall be null and void. Upon request of the applicant, the Advisory Plan
Commission may extend the development plan approval in increments of one year
beyond the expiration date without further notice or public hearing.
   (D)   Maintenance. An improvement location permit may be revoked if the CSES
is moved or otherwise altered in a manner which causes the CSES not to be in
conformity with this chapter. The CSES must be properly maintained and be kept
free from all hazards, including but not limited to, faulty wiring, loose
fastenings, being in an unsafe condition or detrimental to public health,
safety, or general welfare. In the event of a violation of any of the foregoing
provisions, the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice specifying the
violation to the owner or operated of the CSES to conform to the ordinance
standards or to remove the CSES.
   (E)   As-built plans. The applicant shall deliver to the Administrator of
the Advisory Plan Commission and to all providers of emergency services serving
the project area copy of the as-built site map. Upon request by the local Fire
Department, the applicant shall cooperate with the local Fire Department to
develop or update the Fire Department’s emergency response plan. Nothing in
this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all other applicable fire
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.042 SETBACKS AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No part of the project shall be constructed in any required setback,
dedicated public easement or dedicated public right-of-way without prior
written authorization from the County Commissioners. All necessary surveys
shall be paid for by the applicant, owner/operator.
      (1)   No solar panel may be located less than 1,000 feet from any non-
participating landowner property line.
      (2)   No solar panel may be located less than 12,000 feet from any school
corporation property line.
      (3)   No distal solar panel may be located less than two miles from any
residential, commercial, industrial or artisan well.
      (4)   No solar panel may be located less than 100 feet from the nearest
edge of the right-of-way from a county, state, local or collector road.
      (5)   Any CSES-1 project proposed shall not have a boundary closer than
three miles to any incorporated municipalities jurisdictional boundary line.
      (6)   No solar panel may exceed 20 feet in height at its highest extended
rotation.
      (7)   No Tier 3 CSES solar panel may exceed the height restriction in the
underlying zoning district.
   (B)   Applicant shall give notice to the owner of any private certified
landing strip. Setbacks will be determined based upon the agreement of the
landing strip owner, applicant and the Advisory Plan Commission which shall
take into consideration the guidelines provided in a U.S. Department of
Transportation FAA Advisory Circular dated February 26, 2014, as may be
updated. Proof of notice must in included with the preliminary development
plan.
   (C)   Allowed variances. Variances may only be granted for relief from
required setbacks. However, the variance application must include an executed
agreement between the applicant and all participating and non-participating
landowners affected by the requested variance prior to consideration of the
variance request by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
POST-CONSTRUCTION AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE
§ 155.060 DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY.
   (A)   At the completion of construction but before any commercial operations
begins, the applicant shall secure and provide to the Advisory Plan Commission
a performance bond, surety bond, letter of credit, or other form of financial
assurance that is acceptable to the Advisory Plan Commission (the
“decommissioning security”) equal to 25% of the estimated cost of
decommissioning the project pursuant to the decommissioning plan. An additional
100% of decommissioning costs shall be submitted in the form of cash.
   (B)   The decommissioning security, in computing the estimated cost of
decommissioning, shall not consider or deduct the net salvage value (as
defined) of the project. The amount of the decommissioning security shall be
adjusted annually by January 31 by an amount equal to the increase in the CPI
Index. CPI INDEX shall mean the Consumer Price Index for “All Urban Consumers,
U.S. City Average, all items,” issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the
United States Department of Labor, or, if discontinued or no longer published,
such other governmental index that most closely matches the manner in which
information had been previously tracked as selected by the Advisory Plan
Commission. The decommissioning plan and decommissioning surety shall be re-
evaluated every three years commencing with the operation of the project by a
licensed engineer approved by the Advisory Plan Commission, funded by the
owner/operator and qualified to provide an estimate of the cost of
decommissioning of the project (the “decommissioning engineer”). A new
decommissioning security, and 100% cost in cash, in the revised amount, if any,
shall be provided within 60 days of the approval of the updated decommissioning
plan.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.061 WASTE REMOVAL.
   All solid waste whether generated from supplies, equipment, parts,
packaging, or operation or maintenance of the facility, including old parts and
equipment, shall be removed from the site in a timely manner. All hazardous
waste generated by the operation and maintenance of the facility, including but
not limited to lubricating materials, shall, be handled in a manner consistent
with all local, state and federal rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.062 MODIFICATIONS.
   Any physical modifications to the project that alters the mechanical load,
mechanical load path, nameplate generating capacity, size or location or major
electrical components shall require a new improvement location permit and/or of
there is more than a 1.5% increase in total acreage of the project. Like-kind
replacements that do not have the effects listed above do not require new
permitting. Prior to making any physical modification (other than a like-kind
replacement), the applicant shall confer with the Building Inspector to
determine whether the physical modification requires new permitting.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.063 INSPECTIONS.
   Provisions regarding biannual professional inspection of solar facilities
shall be as follows.
   (A)   Inspection frequency and scope.
      (1)   Biannual inspections. The solar facility shall undergo professional
inspections twice a year, with the inspections spaced approximately six months
apart.
      (2)   Comprehensive evaluation. The inspections shall encompass a
thorough evaluation of all aspects of the solar facility, including but not
limited to the structural integrity, electrical systems, equipment
functionality, environmental compliance, and overall safety protocols.
   (B)   Inspector qualifications and approval.
      (1)   Independent inspectors. The inspectors shall be professionals with
expertise in related fields, possessing the necessary qualifications and
experience.
      (2)   County approval. Prior to conducting inspections, the appointed
inspectors must receive approval from the county based on their qualifications,
expertise, and adherence to relevant industry standards.
   (C)   Financial responsibility.
      (1)   Developer’s obligation. The solar developer shall bear all
financial responsibility for hiring the approved independent inspectors and
covering the costs associated with the inspections.
      (2)   Cost determination. The exact fees and compensation for the
inspection services shall be determined through a mutually agreed-upon
arrangement between the solar developer and the approved inspectors, with the
oversight and approval of the county.
   (D)   Reporting and compliance.
      (1)   Inspection reports. Following each inspection, the approved
inspector shall provide a comprehensive written report detailing the findings,
observations, and recommendations related to the solar facility’s compliance
and overall condition.
      (2)   Corrective actions. If any deficiencies, violations, or issues are
identified during the inspections the solar developer shall promptly address
and rectify them in accordance with the recommendations provided by the
inspector, ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and safety
standards.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.064 COMPLAINTS.
   If, after construction, the applicant receives a written complaint related
to interference caused with local broadcast residential television,
telecommunication, communication or microwave transmissions, glares, or sound
the applicant shall promptly resolve the complaint within 24 hours. If
legitimate complaints are not remedied within 24 hours the county may address
these complaints with any expenses incurred to be reimbursed by the applicant.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.065 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   The applicant shall deliver to the Administrator of the Advisory Plan
Commission and to all providers of emergency services serving the project area
a copy of the as-built site map. Upon request by the local Fire Department, the
applicant shall cooperate with the local Fire Department to develop or update
the Fire Department’s emergency response plan. Nothing in this section shall
alleviate the need to comply with all other applicable fire laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.066 RECORD OF GROUND DISTURBANCE AND ROAD USAGE.
   On completion of construction the applicant shall submit to the County
Surveyor a site map detailing all ground disturbed through construction
activity, surface and subsurface as-built infrastructure and all routes over
which trucks and equipment traveled. The scale and format of the submitted map
shall conform to the County Surveyor’s specifications.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.067 LIABILITY FOR DRAINAGE.
   For a period from construction to five years following the decommissioning,
the applicant shall be liable for all costs of repair to county drain tiles,
regulated drains and ditches and other county regulated surface and subsurface
structures and private tiles located in the public right-of-way within 100 feet
of the routes and disturbed ground. This period shall be extended for any
damages occurring as a result of operations, replacement or maintenance of the
project after the five year period.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.068 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The county shall require the owner/operator to provide a bi-yearly
statement of activity to ensure that the facility is actively producing
electricity for the power grid. If an CSES-1 or any individual solar panel
constituting a portion of the project is presumed at the end of its useful life
and/or abandoned if the CSES or the individual solar panel generates less than
25% of expected maximum output of electricity for a continuing period of six
months or if the CSES or individual panel generates less than 10% of expected
maximum output of electricity for a continuing period of three months.
   (B)   If there is evidence that the facility or any aspect of such is not in
conformance with these conditions, a notice of violation shall be sent to the
owner of the facility and the landowner. This presumption may be rebutted by
submitting to the Advisory Plan Commission for approval and within 90 days of
submission obtaining approval thereof of a plan outlining the steps and
schedules for returning the CSES or individual solar panel to service. Any CSES
or individual solar panel which pursuant to the terms hereof has either reached
the end of its useful life and/or abandoned pursuant to the terms hereof shall
be subject to removal pursuant to the decommissioning plan.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.069 UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   Any CSES or structure thereof declared to be unsafe by the County Building
Commissioner or the Advisory Plan Commission by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or
abandonment is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by
repair or rehabilitation with in six months or be deemed abandoned and at the
end of its useful life and subject to decommissioning. Nothing herein prevents
the County Building Commissioner or the Advisory Plan Commission issuing an
immediate cease use order as to any structure that he or she determines is
unsafe during the repair or rehabilitation period.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.070 POST-CONSTRUCTION MODIFICATIONS.
   Any post-construction proposed nonmaterial modifications, alterations,
expansions, or changes of any type or size to the final development plan must
be approved by the Advisory Plan Commission as well as the Board of Zoning
Appeals. All material post construction proposed changes must apply in the same
way as a new project. The Advisory Plan Commission shall have the authority and
discretion, considering all relevant factors to determine whether the proposed
post-construction change is material.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.071 NO PREEMPTION.
   Nothing in the chapter is intended to preempt other applicable state and
federal laws and regulations, except to the extent this chapter provides higher
or more stringent standards.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.072 PROPERTY VALUE GUARANTEE FORM.
   (A)   The following is the form of property value guaranty to be used by the
County Commissioners and the Spencer County Economic Development Organization
in the economic development agreement.
   (B)   The following form of property value guaranty shall be used by the
County Commissioners as part of the economic development agreement, if a
property value guaranty is included in the agreement. The County Commissioners
shall determine and complete the matters which are left blank in the following
form:
Property Value Guarantee
Property Value Guarantee
Legal name of owner and operator of the (legal name of CSES project) and their assigns
and successors in interest (hereinafter jointly and severally referred to as
“guarantor”) agree to guarantee (the “guarantee”) the value of all owner-occupied
residential dwellings owned by all non-participating landowners owners of record
(hereinafter referred to individually as “owner” and collectively as “owners”) as of
the date of the granting of secondary approval of the development plan for the [legal
name] for properties which are located within one mile of a CSES solar panel as shown
on the approved site plan contained within the development plan in all directions and
to guarantee the value of all residential dwellings owned by owners whose ownership is
of record in the office of the Spencer County Recorder on the date of the granting of
secondary approval of the development plan.
The location of each owner of a residential dwelling within two miles of a solar panel
shall be noted on the development plan. Within 30 days of the granting of secondary
approval of the development plan, the guarantor shall provide each eligible owner with
written notice by certified mail to the owner’s address as set forth in the property
tax records of Spencer County describing the terms of the guarantee. To qualify for the
guarantee, each owner must notify the guarantor within 90 of the mailing of the notice
of his or her intent to participate, and guarantor shall thereafter obtain and submit
to the owner an M.A.I. appraisal of owner’s property within 60 days following the date
of the guarantor’s receipt of owner’s notice. Owner may accept the value of the
property based on the appraisal or may obtain his or her own N.A.I. appraisal.
If the owner’s appraisal is less than or within 5% above the guarantor’s appraisal, the
guaranteed value (“guaranteed value”) shall be the average of the two appraisals. If
the owner’s appraisal is more than 5% above the guarantor’s appraisal and the owner is
not willing to accept the guarantor’s appraisal, the two appraisers shall agree upon a
third N.A.I. appraiser, to be paid for 100% by guarantor and 0% by the owner; who shall
appraise the property and whose appraised value shall become the guaranteed value for
that property.
The period of the guarantee shall be for a period of 35 years following the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy for the operation of the [legal name] CSES system. The
guarantee shall extend only to owners of record as of the date of the approval of the
secondary development plan for the CSES and not to the assignees or subsequent owners
or purchasers. In the event any property covered by this guarantee is listed for sale
by a licensed real estate broker for a period of not less than 90 days and during such
period, an owner, subject to the restrictions below, shall notify guarantor of the
intent to exercise owner’s right under this guarantee and within 30 days of the receipt
of the notice guarantor shall do one of the following:
Authorize owner to accept the pending bona fide offer and to pay the owner at closing
of the sale the difference between the purchase price set forth in the offer and the
guaranteed value.
Immediately take steps to purchase the dwelling from owner at the guaranteed value with
such purchase to be completed within 60 days of receipt by guarantor of notice by owner
of owner’s failure to receive a bona fide offer for the guaranteed value after having
listed the property for a period of 90 days with a licensed real estate broker.
In any case in which there is a purchase offer pending for which owner expects to make
a claim under this guarantee, owner shall provide a copy of such offer to guarantor. In
the event guarantor is required to purchase owner’s dwelling, owner shall convey fee
simple title to the property, free and clear of any liens and encumbrances by delivery
of a warranty deed at closing. At closing guarantor shall pay preparation of the
warranty deed, vendor’s affidavit, and all title insurance fees, closing fees, and all
survey expenses if it is necessary to subdivide the dwelling from other real estate of
the owner.
Guarantor’s obligations hereunder are hereby expressly made contingent upon owner;
performing routine maintenance and repairs on the dwelling; the dwelling or property
being in the same condition on the date of sale as it was on the date first appraised
hereunder; the delivery of the property free and clear of all liens and subject only to
such easements and other encumbrances commonly accepted in residential real estate
transactions; and owner conveying fee simple title to the dwelling or property to
guarantor by recordable warranty deed at closing. All notices to owner and guarantor
shall be to the address of owner and guarantor as listed on the property tax records of
Spencer County.
The following fee schedule is for informational purposes only as the fee schedule is
set by the Spencer County Advisory Plan Commission:
Amendment to Fee Schedule:
The following fees shall be added to the Spencer County Advisory Plan Commission Fee
Schedule for 2023:
 
CSES FEE SCHEDULE
 
CSES Tier 1            $20,000/acre plus $1,700 per megawatt produced from annual
summary.
 
CSES Tier 2            $7,000
 
CSES Tier 3            $75
 
 
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   An owner, or applicant, or operator which violates any provision of
this chapter (including violations by their agents, contractors, or
subcontractors) shall be subject to fines and all legal remedies under any and
all relevant state and local statutes.
      (2)   Any owner, or applicant, or operator or a contractor or agent
thereof who engages in any activity prohibited by or under the control of this
chapter without first obtaining any required approval or permit including but
not limited to an improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy
shall be subject to fines and all legal remedies under any and all relevant
state and local statutes.
      (3)   Each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense. The authority to assess fines rests only with the County
Commissioners, the Advisory Plan Commission shall also have all recourse to
address violations as provided by law.
   (B)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter shall be in compliance with
the Zoning Ordinances of Spencer County, as it may be amended.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed - - )
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
156.01   Adopted by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The County Subdivision Ordinance, and any and all amendments made thereto by
ordinance by the county, are hereby adopted by reference, and incorporated into
this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 2003-09, passed 4-14-2003; Ord. 2008-01, passed 1-
7-2008; Ord. 2008-05, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 2008-16, passed 11-18-2008; Ord.
2016-11, passed 11-1-2016)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title and interpretation
   
157.002   Purpose and basis for establishing
   
157.003   Definitions
   
157.004   Buildings and uses affected by zoning
   
157.005   Continuance of nonconforming buildings or uses
   
157.006   Nonconformance due to reclassification
   
157.007   General use provisions
   
157.008   Off-street parking and loading provisions
   
157.009   General area provisions
   
157.010   General height provision
   
157.011   Contingent uses (all districts)
   
157.012   Special exception - specified zones
   
157.013   Manufactured housing standards
   
157.014   Confined feeding operations standards
   
157.015   Recreational vehicle parks
   
157.016   Mineral extraction standards
   
157.017   Waste disposal facility standards
Zones
   
157.030   Establishment of zones
   
157.031   Zone and district boundaries
Flood Hazard Area Regulations
   
157.045   Statutory authorization; findings of fact; purpose; objectives
   
157.046   Definitions
   
157.047   General provisions
   
157.048   Administration
   
157.049   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
157.050   Variance procedures
Agricultural Zone Regulations
   
157.065   Agricultural Zone
Residential Zone Regulations
   
157.075   R1 One-Family Zone
   
157.076   R2 Multi-Family Zone
Business Zone Regulations
   
157.090   B1 Neighborhood Business Zone
   
157.091   B2 Rural Business Zone
   
157.092   B3 General Business Zone
Industrial Zone Regulations
   
157.105   I1 Light Industrial Zone
   
157.106   I2 Heavy Industrial Zone
Exceptions and Modifications
   
157.120   Height
   
157.121   Area and yards
Advertising Devices
   
157.135   Improvement location permit
   
157.136   Exceptions to improvement location permit regulations
   
157.137   Area and location
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.150   Improvement location permits
   
157.151   Enforcement
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.165   Organization
   
157.166   Powers of the Board of Zoning Appeals
Amendments to Chapter and Map
   
157.180   Procedure
   
157.181   Filing fees
 
   
157.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Schedule of Uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter and any ordinances supplemental or amendatory
thereto shall be known and may be cited as: Spencer County Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Provisions of chapter declared to be minimum requirements. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to
the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at
variance or in any other way conflict with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or
covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards, shall
govern.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.002 PURPOSE AND BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING.
   The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth are made in
accordance with a comprehensive master plan in order that adequate light, air,
convenience of access, and safety from fire, flood and other danger may be
secured; that congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided; and
that the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general public
welfare may be promoted. They are made with reasonable regard to existing
conditions, the character of buildings erected in each district, the most
desirable use for which the land in each district may be adapted and the
conservation of property values throughout the unincorporated areas of the
county.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.003 DEFINITIONS.
   In this chapter, words used in the present tense include the future, the
singular includes the plural and the plural the singular, and the word LOT
includes the word PLOT. The word USED includes DESIGNED or INTENDED TO BE USED.
The word SHALL is mandatory and not optional. Unless otherwise specified, all
distances shall be measured horizontally, in any direction. The following
terms, unless a contrary meaning is required by the context or is specifically
prescribed, shall have the following meanings.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE. A subordinate building located on the same lot
with the main building, or a subordinate use of land, either of which is
customarily incident to the main building or to the principal use of the land.
Where a substantial part of the wall of an ACCESSORY BUILDING is a part of the
wall of the main building or where an accessory building is attached to the
main building in a substantial manner as by a roof, such accessory building
shall be counted as part of the main building. An ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   A children’s playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse;
      (2)   A garage, shed, yard barn or building for domestic storage;
      (3)   Incinerators incidental to residential use;
      (4)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or business use, unless that storage is prohibited by
district regulations;
      (5)   Storage of goods used in, or produced by manufacturing activities,
on the same lot or parcel of ground with those activities, unless that storage
is prohibited by district regulations;
      (6)   A non-paying guest house or rooms for guests within an ACCESSORY
BUILDING, if those facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests of
occupants of the principal building and not for permanent occupancy by others
as housekeeping units;
      (7)   Servants’ quarters if part of an accessory garage and used solely
for occupancy by a servant or household employee of the occupants of the
principal dwelling and the family of that servant or employee;
      (8)   Off-street motor vehicle parking area, and loading and unloading
facilities;
      (9)   Signs, other than advertising signs as permitted and regulated in
each district incorporated in this chapter;
      (10)   Carports;
      (11)   Boat house, if not more than ten feet high as measured from the
normal water level;
      (12)   Swimming pools if private and being incidental to use by the owner
and guests; and
      (13)   Public utility communication, electric, gas water and sewer lines,
their supports and incidental equipment.
   ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS. Living quarters within an accessory building, for
the sole use of persons employed on the premises; such quarters having no
kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   ADVERTISING, DEVICE OR DEVICES. An advertising sign, billboard or poster
panel which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such sign is
located or to which it is affixed. However, this does not include those
advertising signs, billboards or poster panels which direct attention to the
business on the premises or to a brand name of a product or commodity with
which the business is specifically identified and which is sold on the premises
(see also SIGN, OFF-PREMISES).
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of agricultural
operations, but not including a dwelling or private garage.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes with the intent of
selling any products produced by such activities. Agricultural uses include
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, aquaculture,
floriculture, viticulture animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the products; provided however,
that:
      (1)   The operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that
of the normal agricultural activities;
      (2)   The agricultural use does not include the operation or maintenance
of a commercial stockyard or feedlot (confined feeding operation).
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or
easement, and usually less than 30 feet wide, which normally affords a
secondary means of access for the special accommodation of the abutting
property.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as loadbearing walls,
columns, beams or girders.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, tumbuckles, chains,
ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building, lot structure or enclosure or portion thereof
designed or used for the care, observation or treatment of three or more dogs,
cats and other domestic animals. An ANIMAL HOSPITAL is operated by or the
treatment therein is under the direct supervision of a veterinarian licensed to
practice by the State of Indiana.
   ANIMAL SHELTERS/RESCUES. A public or private not-profit, or not-for-profit
facility at which dogs, cats, and other domesticated animals are kept for
purposes of distribution the general public.
   APARTMENT. One or more rooms including sleeping, living, lavatory and
principal kitchen facilities designed as a unit for occupancy by only one
family.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body,
frame, or fender straightening or repair and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and
motor service to motor vehicles, but not including any operation included under
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building or portion thereof or premises used
for the dispensing, or offering for sale at retail, gasoline, kerosene,
lubrication oil or grease, and where tires, batteries and similar automobile
accessories may be offered for sale on the premises at retail, including minor
services and installations customarily incidental thereto.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. See JUNK YARD.
   AWNING. A roof-like structure which projects from the wall of a building.
   BASEMENT (OR CELLAR). A story partly, or wholly underground but having more
than one-half of its clear height below finished grade (see GRADE). If more
than one-half its clear height is above grade, it shall be considered a story
for purposes of height measurement.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential building, or portion thereof—other than a
motel, apartment hotel or hotel—containing lodging rooms for accommodation of
five or more persons who are not members of the keeper’s family and where
lodging or meals or both are provided by pre-arrangement and for definite
periods and for compensation.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a street or streets and any
combination of boundary lines or public or institutionally owned lands,
railroads rights-of-way, rivers and lakes and other lines of demarcation.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets or between a street and right-of-way, end
of dead-end street or city boundary measured along the street line.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Spencer County.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, not available to transients, in which meals and
lodging are regularly provided for compensation for at least three but not more
than 30 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattel. When any portion thereof
is completely separated from every other portion thereof by a division wall
without openings then each such portion shall be deemed to be a separate
building. At no time shall this definition be construed to include mobile
homes.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no party wall in common with another
building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the adjoining
street centerline grade at a point opposite the center of the principal
frontage of the building to the highest point of ceiling of the top story in
the case of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, and to the mean
height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof. Where
buildings are set back from the street line, the height of the building may be
measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of
the building.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING. A legally existing building which fails to comply
with the regulations set forth in this chapter applicable to the district in
which this building is located.
   BUILDING, SEMI-DETACHED. A building having one party wall in common with an
adjacent building.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front and across a lot establishing the
minimum open space to be provided between the front line of the building
foundation and the front lot line. The front line of the foundations of
enclosed porches or vestibules if nearer the front lot line than the main
foundation.
   CAMPGROUND. An area or tract of land on which accommodations for temporary
occupancy are located or may be placed, including cabins, tents, and major
recreational equipment, and which is primarily used for recreational purposes
and retains an open air or natural character.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. A building or portion thereof, the principal use
of which is for medical or dental study and/or treatment and in which the
services of at least two professionals in the medical or dental fields of
practice are provided.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. A private association of persons, who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
(The affairs and management of such “private club or lodge” are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members).
It shall be permissible to serve food on such premises. The sale of alcoholic
beverages to members and their guests shall be permitted provided it is
secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective of the
organization.
   COMMISSION. The Spencer County Advisory Plan Commission.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the County of Spencer.
   COMPACT HOME OR MODULAR HOME. A manufactured structure, designed for
permanent occupancy, 24 feet or more wide and 40 feet or more long, and meeting
the minimum square footage requirement of the district in which it is placed,
with the four outside walls supported by a permanent foundation and accompanied
by a certificate of compliance furnished by the State of Indiana.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of the
county (and the constituent communities within its planning jurisdiction),
prepared and adopted by the Commission pursuant to the State Acts, and
including any part of such plan and/or policies separately adopted and any
amendment to such plan and/or policies, or parts thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways, stairways,
elevators and all other related common elements, together with individual
ownership in fee simple of a particular unit or portion of such building.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. This shall mean (a) any confined feeding of 300
or more cattle, 600 or more swine or sheep and 30,000 or more fowl; or (b) any
animal feeding operation where the operator elects to come under the Act; or
any animal feeding operation that violates Chapter 214 of the Act of 1943, as
determined by the Stream Pollution Control Board of the State of Indiana; or
(d) as defined by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM)
latest revisions or amendments.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which:
      (1)   Complies with all the regulations of this chapter or of any
amendment hereto governing the zoning district in which such building or
structure is located; and
      (2)   Is designed or intended for a conforming use.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the Commission as a condition of the
approval of the plat.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE SITE. This is a solid waste land disposal
facility, as regulated by the State of Indiana 329 I.A.C. 2-9-2, designed and
operated to accommodate large volumes of solid waste having minimal potential
for ground water contamination. These sites may accept bricks, concrete, stone,
glass, wallboard, lumber, roofing materials and other items which are affixed
to the structure being constructed or demolished, including plumbing fixtures,
wiring and non-asbestos insulation.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A trafficway, including freeways, expressways,
and other arterial streets, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from
the same, except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by
the public authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
   COUNTY. Spencer County, Indiana.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building or group of
buildings and bounded on three or more sides by such building or buildings. The
width of any COURT is its least horizontal dimension measured between opposite
walls. The length of any COURT is its greatest horizontal dimension measured at
right angles to its width.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of such building
measured at the center of such front. Where no CURB LEVEL has been established,
the pavement elevation at the street center line similarly measured, or the
mean elevation of the finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility, other than a day care home, for the care of
school aged children during all or part of the day of a commercial nature which
provides essential personal care, protection, supervision or training of school
aged children or children. A DAY CARE FACILITY shall not be considered a home
occupation.
   DAY CARE HOME. A home for the care of children, including those of the
resident, during all or part of the day, of a commercial nature, of a, type
commonly called “day nurseries” and the like, which provide essential personal
care, protection and supervision of pre-school or school-age children. This is
not a pre-school educational facility. A DAY CARE HOME shall be considered a
home occupation.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot or group of
lots or structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any improvement or change to property bought about by human
activity, including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan for the development of real property that:
      (1)   Requires approval by a plan commission under the 1400 series of
I.C. 36-7-4;
      (2)   Includes a site plan;
      (3)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the zoning
ordinance regulating the development; and
      (4)   Contains the plan documentation and supporting information required
by this chapter.
   DWELLING. A structure of building or portion thereof used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family and multiple dwellings, but not
including hotels, lodging or boarding houses or tourist homes.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A structure used for occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ROW. A building having a party wall on each side in common with an
adjoining building unless it is situated as the outermost building; in the
latter case it will have a party wall on one side only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used for occupancy by two families living
independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or a portion of a two-family, multi-family, or row
dwelling used by one family for cooking, living and sleeping purposes.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Pre-primary, primary or grade, public, parochial or
private school, high school, preparatory school or academy, public or founded
or owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or charitable
organization; private preparatory school or academy furnishing courses of
instruction substantially equivalent to the courses offered by public high
schools for preparation of admission to college or universities which award
B.A. or B.S. degrees; junior college, college or university, public or founded
or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or charitable
organization, or private when not conducted as a commercial enterprise for the
profit of individual owners or stockholders. This definition shall not be
deemed to include trade or business school as defined in this section.
   ESSENTIAL USES. Transmission lines, distribution systems and all
appurtenances constructed and maintained for or by a utility company, either
private or governmental.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, fraternity or sorority
house. A FAMILY shall be deemed to include necessary servants.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining any river or stream which have been, or may
be expected hereafter to be, covered by flood water as established from data
supplied by the Division of Water of the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream, and those portions of the flood
plains adjoining the channels, which are required to efficiently carry the
discharge of flood water or flood flow of any river or stream.
   FLOOR AREA (FOR DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO). For the purpose of
determining the floor area ratio, the FLOOR AREA of a building is the sum of
the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building measured from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls
separating two buildings. The FLOOR AREA of a building shall include basement
floor area when more than one-half of the basement height is above the finished
lot grade level at the front of the building, interior balconies and
mezzanines, and enclosed porches, and floor area devoted to accessory uses.
However, any space devoted to off-street parking or loading shall not be
included in the FLOOR AREA.
   FOSTER CARE HOME. As defined by the Indiana Department of Social Service,
FOSTER HOMES are homes which provide congregate living arrangements for non-
family members.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   FRONTAGE (OF A BLOCK). Means all of the property abutting a street or the
space between a building and the street.
   FRONTAGE (OF A LOT). All the property of such lot fronting on a street, as
measured between side lot lines.
   FRONT LINE. With respect to a building, means the foundation line that is
nearest the front lot line.
   FRONT LOT LINE. With respect to the relationship between property and the
street this means:
      (1)   For an interior or through lot, means the line marking the boundary
between the lot and the abutting street; and
      (2)   For a corner lot, means the line marking the boundary between the
lot and the shorter of the two abutting street segments.
   FRONT YARD. A yard that is bounded by the front line of the principal
buildings, by the adjacent street right-of-way, and by the segments of side lot
lines that they intercept.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main
building, used for the storage of self-propelled vehicles where the capacity
does not exceed three vehicles, or not more than two vehicles per family housed
in the building to which such garage is accessory, whichever is the greater;
not more than one-third the total number of vehicles stored in such garage
shall be commercial vehicles. Storage space for not more than three vehicles
may be rented for vehicles of non-occupants of the building to which garage is
accessory.
   GARAGE, PARKING. Any building, except those herein defined as a private
garage, used exclusively for parking of self-propelled vehicles, and with not
more than two pumps for the incidental sale of gasoline.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no commodity sold
upon the premises except that which is produced by such home occupation, and
not more than two persons are engaged in such occupation. Such uses as barber
shop, beauty parlor, tea room, tourist home and animal hospital shall not be
deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOSPITAL. Sanitarium, sanatorium, preventorium, clinic, provided such
institution is operated by, or treatment given under direct supervision of, a
physician licensed to practice by the state.
   HOSPITAL, ANIMAL. A lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon
or wherein three or more dogs, cats, and other domestic animals are kept or
maintained and which is operated by, or the treatment therein is under direct
supervision of, a veterinarian licensed to practice by the state.
   HOTEL. A building or portion thereof used for the more or less temporary
occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which
provision for cooking is not in the individual rooms or suites.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Commissioners
of Spencer County or its duly authorized representative, stating that the
proposed erection, construction, enlargement or moving of a building or
structure referred to therein complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE FACILITY. Any facility used for the storage,
transportation, reclamation or disposal of any waste classified as hazardous or
toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing and
similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive in
character; require large sites, open storage and service areas, extensive
services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and normally
generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, air
pollution and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary. Waste is
limited to wastes other than those classified as hazardous or toxic by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free of objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust; operating and storing
within enclosed structures; and generating little industrial traffic and no
nuisances. Waste disposal is limited to wastes other than those classified as
hazardous or toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory or incongruous.
   JUNK YARD, including AUTOMOBILE WRECKING and STORAGE. Any lot, building,
structure, enclosure, premises, or parts thereof used for the storage, keeping
or abandonment of any worn out, cast off, or discarded or abandoned article,
material, vehicle, one or more automobile(s), and machinery or parts thereof,
which is ready for destruction or sale or has been collected or stored for
salvage or conversion to some use, including scrap metal, paper, wood, cordage
or other waste or discarded materials, articles, vehicles, one or more
automobile(s) and machinery or parts thereof, or vehicles or automobiles that
are inoperable or incapable of movement by their own locomotion or power, or
vehicles or automobile(s) without a valid current state registration and
license plate issued to said vehicle or automobile(s) and to the occupant,
owner, purchaser, lessor, lessee or tenant of any lot, building, or structure
therein or thereon situated.
   JURISDICTION. That portion of Spencer County, Indiana lying outside of the
limits of incorporated towns and cities, with exceptions as provided in Chapter
174 of the Acts of 1947, of the General Assembly of Indiana, and all Acts
amendatory thereto, as is now or may hereafter be in effect.
   KENNEL. A lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premises whereon or
wherein three or more dogs or cats are maintained, boarded, bred, kept, or
cared for, in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale, or
are groomed, trained, or handled, for others.
   LODGING, HOUSE (ROOMING HOUSE). See BED AND BREAKFAST.
   LOT. A parcel of land defined by metes and bounds or boundary lines in a
recorded deed or on a recorded plat, fronting on a public thoroughfare. In
determining lot area, no part thereof within the limits of the proposed street
rights-of-way shall be included.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT FRONT. That part of a lot adjacent to and parallel with the street. The
front of a corner lot shall be determined, at the time of application for the
improvement location permit, by either the owner, builder, developer or their
agent and the zoning administrator. Once the front is determined, the structure
shall then be erected in conformity with the zoning and the subdivision
ordinances.
   LOT LINES. Lines bounding a lot, as hereinafter described:
      (1)   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line running along the front of the lot and
separating it from the street. In this chapter the front lot line is called the
FRONT STREET LINE. In a THROUGH LOT both lines abutting the streets are deemed
FRONT STREET LINES.
      (2)   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line generally opposite and parallel to the
front street line, except in a THROUGH LOT. If a rear lot line is less than ten
feet long or the lot comes to a point at the rear, said rear lot line is
assumed to be a line at least ten feet long, lying wholly within the lot,
parallel to the front street line or, if the front street line is curved,
parallel to the chord of the arc of said front street line.
      (3)   LOT LINE. Any lot line other than a front street line or a rear lot
line. A side lot line separating the lot from a street is a SIDE STREET LINE.
   LOT THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance parallel to the front of a building erected or to be
erected measured between side lot lines at the building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at a building site. bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code or Indiana Public Law 360, Acts of 1971,
as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building Council. Two types of
MANUFACTURED HOMES A and B are defined as follows:
      (1)   TYPE A. A double section or single section, residential design home
having more than 700 square feet of occupied space constructed after January 1,
1981 and placed onto a permanent foundation as provided for by Public Law 312,
Acts of 1981 (I.C. 36-7-4-1106).
      (2)   TYPE B. Either a double or single section standard design having
more than 700 square feet of occupied space, constructed after June 15, 1976
and placed onto a permanent foundation, not meeting all of the requirements of
I.C. 36-7-4-1106.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the Indiana Administrative Building Council;
all of which became effective for mobile/manufactured home construction on June
15, 1976.
   MARQUEE OR CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building.
   MASTER PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. Includes mining, quarrying and removal of earth
materials.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling, and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, which
became effective for all mobile home construction June 15, 1976.
   MOTEL. A permanent building or group of buildings containing rooms without
cooking facilities, used, rented or hired out for the more or less temporary
occupancy of overnight guests.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall include automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, semi-
trailers, airplanes, buses and farm implements, whether self-propelled or
designed to be pulled, pushed or carried by another motor vehicle.
   NET SITE AREA. The entire land area within the boundaries of a site,
including the area of any existing streets, alleys, or rights-of-way which are
included in the legal description of the site.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A legally existing use of land or building which fails to
comply with the regulations set forth in this chapter applicable to the
district in which such use is located.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. Land, buildings, structures or the combination
thereof for the storage, cultivation or transplanting of live trees, shrubs or
plants offered for retail sale on the premises including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
   ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA. The nationally-recognized model
building code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, adopted
by the Indiana Administrative Building Council (ABC) as mandated through Public
Law 360, Acts of 1971, and, which includes those supplements and amendments
promulgated by the ABC.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. An unmapped zoning district where the zone requirements
are contained in this chapter and the zone is fixed on the map only when an
application for development, meeting the zone requirements, is approved in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the chapter. Such district may
encompass one or more underlying zone districts and may impose additional
requirements beyond those required by the underlying district.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association syndicate, co-partnership or
corporation, having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
this chapter.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street, used for the
temporary parking of more than four automobiles and available for public use
whether free, for compensation, or as accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE (OFF-STREET), ONE. A space on private land accessible from a
street or alley, used for the purpose of temporarily parking a motor vehicle.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development of land that is under unified
control and is planned and developed as a whole in a single development
operation or programmed series of development stages, meeting the requirements
of I.C. 36-7-4-1500.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map or chart indicating the subdivisions or resubdivision of
land, intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PLAT, SKETCH. A rough sketch by the subdivider of the proposed subdivision
and presented to the Commission prior to submission of the subdivision for
primary approval. Presenting a sketch plat prior to the preparation of the
preliminary plat enables the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the Commission as to form of the plat and objectives of
the chapter.
   PRIVATE DRIVE. A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street, as
defined herein, except that it is not dedicated to the public use. A driveway
which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not
considered a PRIVATE DRIVE.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A disposal system which is not constructed, installed,
maintained, operated or owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Services
Commission of Indiana.
   PRIVATE WATER. A water supply system which is not constructed, installed,
maintained, operated or owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Services
Commission of Indiana.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage disposal system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality or taxing district established
for that purpose.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street established or dedicated for public use.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, municipal department or board duly
authorized to furnish or furnishing under regulation to the public;
electricity, gas, steam, communication (including CATV), transportation,
drainage, sewer or water.
   PUBLIC WATER. A water supply system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality taxing district established
for that purpose or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of Indiana.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations,
train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water
towers.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be classified
as either EXTENSIVE or INTENSIVE depending upon the scope of services offered
and the extent of use. EXTENSIVE FACILITIES generally require and utilize
considerable areas of land and include, but are not limited to hunting,
fishing, race tracks, riding clubs and parks. INTENSIVE FACILITIES generally
require less land and include, but are not limited to miniature golf courses,
amusement parks, stadiums and bowling alleys.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Commonly referred to as RVs are a temporary dwelling
for travel, recreation and vacation use. They include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   MOTOR HOMES. A self-propelled vehicle with a dwelling constructed
as an integral part of the vehicle, or so altered.
      (2)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis or cut-down car.
      (3)   TRAVEL/CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicle or other portable structure that
is designed to be moved on the highway and designed or used as a dwelling.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. Any lot of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicles sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, glassware, and metal cans, are collected,
stored, flattened, crushed, or bundled, essentially by hand within a completely
enclosed building.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. An incidental use that serves as a neighborhood
drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources. No processing of
such items would be allowed. This facility is generally located in a shopping
center parking lot or in other public/quasi-public areas, such as churches and
schools.
   RECYCLING PLANT. A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books, and other paper products,
glass, metal cans, and other products are recycled, reprocessed, and treated to
return such products to a condition in which they may again be used for
production.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. That flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on the average of once in 100-year period, as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the State Natural
Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a probability
of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the flood plains adjoining the channel which are reasonable required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any
river or stream shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration.
   REPLAT. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat if
such a change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a
secondary plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. RIGHT-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, shade trees or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of
the plat on which such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A structure for the display and sale of products, with no
space for customers within the structure itself.
   SALVAGE YARD. Establishment engaged in processing of scrap iron and/or other
metals to be sold for manufacturing of steel or alloys. The total parcel must
be fenced and screened.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. The disposal of solid waste by the trench and cover
method or fill and borrow method. In the first case, an excavation will be made
and the solid waste placed in the excavation and covered with the dirt which
was removed. In the second case, the fill may be made in a low area and dirt
borrowed from higher ground will be spread over the top of the solid waste.
   SCREENING/BUFFERING/GREENBELT. A structure erected or vegetation planted
which initially or eventually is of sufficient height and or density for
concealing an area from view and/or deaden sound.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of a
building or structure measured at the edge of the eave and the front property
line.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business. A SIGN shall not
include:
      (1)   The display of official court or public office notices;
      (2)   The flag emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit, school or
religious group; nor
      (3)   One located completely within an enclosed building, except signs
located behind window areas intended to be viewed from outside the building.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A structure or accessory structure usually elevated above
the ground’s surface; the gross surface area shall not be less than 55 square
feet on any facing and shall not exhibit more than two signs per facing (See
SIGN, OFF- PREMISES).
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. (A revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered to be a
FLASHING SIGN).
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing through or
between any adjacent elements of same. (Such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an
integral part of the display).
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Non-illuminated sign flush with the front of the building
indicating the name or address of a building, or the name of an occupant
thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. An advertising sign, billboard or poster panel which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not
exclusively related to the premises where such sign is located or to which it
is affixed. However, this does not include those advertising signs, billboards
or poster panels which direct attention to the business on the premises or to a
brand name of a product or commodity with which the business is specifically
identified and which is sold on the premises (see also ADVERTISING DEVICE).
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment related to the premises where such sign is located or
to which it is affixed.
   SITE PLAN. A drawing must be furnished to the Plan Commission when
application is made for an improvement location permit and which shows size and
location of all existing and proposed buildings, all adjacent streets and
highways the size of all entrances and exits from the land and a legal
description of the land. For some uses a landscape development plan must be
included.
   SOLID WASTE. 329 I.A.C. 2-2-1(12) states that solid waste is “any garbage,
refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, sludge from a water supply
treatment plant, sludge from an air pollution control facility, or other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural
operations or from community activities.” The term solid waste does not
include:
      (1)   Domestic sewage, irrigation return flows, or industrial discharges
which are regulated by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments.
      (2)   Radioactive materials that are regulated by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission (NRC).
      (3)   Manure or crop residues used as fertilizers or soil conditioners as
part of total farm operation.
      (4)   All exclusions as listed in 329 I.A.C. 2-3-1, such as:
         (a)   Disposal of uncontaminated bricks, rocks, concrete, road
demolition waste or dirt.
         (b)   Disposal and processing of uncontaminated and untreated natural
growth (tree limbs, and the like).
         (c)   Disposal of sawdust from untreated natural wood.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A building or structure which is located on a lot three
acres or more in size on which a dwelling is located, and which is designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used for housing saddle horses or ponies
primarily for the use of occupants of the dwelling, but in no event for hire,
and limited to not more than two horses per three acres.
   STABLE, RIDING. A building or structure which is designed, arranged, used or
intended to be used, for housing saddle horses or ponies primarily for hire.
   STANDARDS. A specific and detailed listing of materials and construction
methods for subdivision improvements and standards of construction and design,
as adopted by the Commission (I.C. 36-7-4-702).
   STOCKYARDS. A yard where livestock is kept before being slaughtered or sent
to market.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above; also any portion of a
building used for human occupancy between the topmost floor and the roof. A
basement shall not be counted as a STORY unless more than one-half of the
basement height is above grade level at the front of the building.
   STREET. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise legally
established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property. A STREET may be designed as a highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive, or other appropriate name. The
arterial thoroughfares and primary and secondary streets are designated on the
thoroughfare map of the Comprehensive Plan for Spencer County, Indiana. For the
purpose of this chapter, streets shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARES. This type of facility serves mainly to move
through traffic. Indiana and U.S. marked routes as well as some county roads
and important intra-city streets are considered under this classification.
Where a highway is a non-limited access route; these facilities also perform a
secondary function of providing direct access to abutting land and thus
interconnect principal traffic generators.
      (2)   PRIMARY (MAJOR) ROUTES. These facilities serve to connect cities
with each other as well as link smaller towns or settlements with the arterial
thoroughfares system. PRIMARY ROUTES provide access to abutting land and
generally serve all principal traffic generators.
      (3)   SECONDARY (CONNECTOR) ROADS. These facilities serve intra-city
movements of traffic, such as that moving between a subdivision and a major
street. The principal difference between the connector road and streets or
roads of higher classification is the length of trip each principally serves.
They are intended to supply the abutting property with the same degree of land
service as the local street, while at the same time serving larger volumes of
traffic.
      (4)   LOCAL (RESIDENTIAL) STREET. The sole function of these streets is
to provide access to the immediately adjacent property. Local access streets
are intended to carry low volumes of traffic.
      (5)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street designed to connect not more than
two streets, and which normally parallels an arterial thoroughfare, or a
primary or secondary street, and is not separated from the said thoroughfare or
street by a lot or tier of lots, and which is specifically so designated and
approved as such on the plat of the subdivision.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected, or placed, which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
Devices used for the support of wires and appurtenances supplying public
utility services shall not be considered as structures under this chapter.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates, and
shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
   TAVERN. A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises and
where entertainment may or may not be provided, including bars and cocktail
lounges.
   TERRACE OR DECK. A platform, which for the purpose of this code is located
adjacent to one or more faces of the principal structure and which is
constructed above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOURIST HOME. See BED AND BREAKFAST.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial school or college; business school or
college when not public and not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship
of a religious or charitable organization; school conducted as commercial
enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or hair
dressing; or for teaching industrial skills in which machinery is employed as a
means of instruction. This definition shall not be deemed to include
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION as defined in this section.
   TRUCK LOT. Any lot or land area used solely for the storage or layover of
commercial trucks, tractors or truck trailers.
   TRUCK TERMINAL/YARD, COMMERCIAL. Any land use with or without buildings for,
but not limited to: parking, storage, maintenance or transfer station for
commercial trucks, tractors, truck trailers and other commercial vehicles.
   USE (OF PROPERTY). The purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or
maintained. (Includes any manner of performance of activity or operation with
respect to the performance standards of this chapter.)
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or dwelling, or including a
building or dwelling, incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal
to 5% or less of the area of the lot.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts (provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of such district).
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. (May be either PERMITTED or SPECIAL).
   USE, SPECIAL. Those uses of land which are not essentially incompatible with
the uses permitted in a zoning district, but possess characteristics or
location qualities which require individual review and restriction.
   VARIANCE. A minimum departure from the strict application of the specific
requirements of this chapter granted by the Board of Appeals in accordance with
the terms of this chapter for the purpose of assuring that no property, because
of special circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges
commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity or district.
   WATERSHED. All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide (a
ridge separating two drainage basins).
   WATERSHED LOCATION MAPS. Maps required to be provided to the Commission when
seeking primary approval of a plat. The maps may be separate or incorporated in
the primary plat and shall show pertinent subdivision information such as but
not limited to: thoroughfares, physical features, existing schools, location of
the subdivision and the streams/drainage within the watershed, and the flood
plains and floodways as mapped by the Federal Insurance Administration.
   WASTE.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SOLID. Generally consists of such materials as
wastewater treatment sludge (wastes with most of the water removed; semi-
liquid), agricultural wastes, plastics, oil, paint, metal, coal ash and is
managed on-site in landfills, surface impoundments, land application units, and
waste piles and/or to off-site land facilities, discharged to wastewater
treatment plants and to surface waters.
      (2)   HAZARDOUS. Regulated by the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA, 1976) and its amendments, is any waste that is “corrosive, ignitable,
reactive or toxic”, or poses a substantial threat to human health and
environment when improperly managed.
      (3)   MUNICIPAL SOLID. The refuse discarded by households, institutions
and commercial establishments (as distinct from hazardous waste and sludge),
and is disposed of in landfills, by incineration, is composted, recycled or re-
used.
      (4)   WASTEWATER. The effluent (something that flows out) from industrial
facilities, oil and gas operations, mining, agricultural run-off,
municipalities, small businesses and households. When discharged from a pipe to
surface water (point source), it is regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA,
1972) and its amendments. Most wastewater from diffuse origins (“non-point”
source), such as agricultural run-off or domestic septic systems, is not
regulated.
      (5)   YARD. Plant clippings, pruning and other discarded materials from
yards and gardens.
   WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. A landfill, composting facility, incinerator,
transfer station, or any similar use. This definition excludes salvaging,
storage, or processing of scrap, metal, paper, cloth, or other material and
excludes junkyards.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground to the sky, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which shall be the least distance between the front lot line and front of the
main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the rearmost
main building and the rear lot line, the depth of which shall be the least
distance between the rear lot line and the rear of such main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard shall be
measured horizontally and perpendicularly from the nearest point of the side
lot line toward the nearest part of the main building.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer designated and authorized by the
Commission to enforce the zoning requirements.
   ZONING DISTRICT(S). A section or sections of the jurisdiction of the Spencer
County, Indiana Zoning Ordinance for which the regulations and requirements
governing use, lot and bulk of buildings and premises are uniform.
   ZONING LOT. A single tract of land located within a single block which is
(at the time of the filing for a Zoning Permit) designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control. Therefore, a ZONING LOT may or may not coincide
with a lot of record. The ZONING LOT shall have adequate frontage on an
improved dedicated roadway of adequate width.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The ordinance, now or hereafter adopted, which includes an
ordinance and zone maps which divide the jurisdiction of the Commission into
districts, with regulations and requirements and procedures for the
establishment of the land use controls.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-18-2009; Ord. 2015-05, passed 6-
16-2015)
Cross-reference:
   For additional definitions relative to flood zone regulations, see §
157.046
§ 157.004 BUILDINGS AND USES AFFECTED BY ZONING.
   No building, dwelling, or structure, or land, except buildings, dwellings,
or land incidental to agricultural operations, shall hereafter commence to be
used unless erection has been started prior to the enactment of this chapter.
No building or dwelling or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.005 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings or structures.
      (1)   Maintenance permitted. A nonconforming structure lawfully existing
upon the effective date of this chapter may be maintained.
      (2)   Repairs and alterations. Repairs and alterations may be made to a
nonconforming building or structure, provided that no enlargement shall be
made.
      (3)   Additions, enlargements or moving.
         (a)   A structure nonconforming as to use, height, yard requirements
or lot area per dwelling unit shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner
unless such structure, including such addition or enlargement, is made to
conform to the use, height, yard, and area requirements of the zone in which it
is located.
         (b)   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole
or in part to any other location on the lot unless every portion of such
building or structure is made to conform to all the regulations of the zone in
which it is located.
   (B)   Nonconforming use of buildings or structures.
      (1)   Continuation and change of use. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter:
         (a)   The nonconforming use of a building or structure, lawfully
existing at the time this chapter became effective, may be continued.
         (b)   The nonconforming use of a building or structure may be changed
only to a use of the same or more restricted classification.
      (2)   Expansion prohibited. A nonconforming use of a building or
structure designed for a conforming use shall not be expanded or extended into
any other portion of such conforming building or structure nor changed except
to a conforming use.
      (3)   A nonconforming use on a part of a lot shall not be expanded or
extended or any other portion of such lot.
      (4)   A nonconforming use of a building or structure designed for such
use may be expanded to 15% of the area nonconforming at the time of passage of
this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming variance permitted by Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board
of Zoning Appeals may authorize, upon appeals in specific cases, such variance
from the terms of this section as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where, owing to a special condition, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this section will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of
this section shall be observed and substantial justice done; provided, however,
that no action shall be taken or decision made except after public hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.006 NONCONFORMANCE DUE TO RECLASSIFICATION.
   The provisions of §
157.005 shall also apply to buildings, structures, land or uses which hereafter
become nonconforming due to any reclassification or zones under this chapter,
or any subsequent change in the regulations of this chapter, and any time
periods specified for discontinuance of nonconforming uses shall be measured
from the date of such reclassification or change.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.007 GENERAL USE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conformance and permits required. No building or structure shall be
erected, reconstructed, enlarged or moved for any use other than that which is
permitted in the zone in which such building, structure or land is located, nor
shall any building, structure or land be used for any other use than is
permitted in the zone in which it is located. No land application of any human
waste or sewage from any septic tank or system shall be permitted in any zone.
   (B)   Zone group classification. Whenever the terms “F Zone, A Zone, B Zone,
or I Zone” are used, they shall be deemed to refer to all zones containing the
same letters in their names; e.g. B Zone shall include the B-1, B-2 and B-
3 zones.
   (C)   Temporary buildings and structures.
      (1)   No temporary building or temporary structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, enlarged, or moved on to any lot, plot, or tract of land other
than for agricultural purposes or as a temporary construction field office
unless it conforms with this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   A manufactured home may be moved on to a lot, plot, or tract
of land and be used as a temporary residence for a period of one year during
the construction time of a permanent residence on the same lot, plot or tract.
Prior to the moving of any manufactured home onto any lot, plot, or tract for
said purpose, the owner shall obtain a special exception grant from the Board
of Zoning Appeals; said grant shall run for a period of one year. Upon
expiration the grant may be extended for one additional year by the Zoning
Administrator upon adequate showing by the owner that the construction of the
residence has not progressed to a livable stage due to conditions beyond his or
her control. Only one such extension shall be allowed for said grant; after the
final expiration of said grant, the manufactured home shall be vacated and
moved within 30 days of the expiration date. The home shall meet all
requirements of §
157.013.
         (b)   The temporary residence shall comply with all county and state
health requirements which would be imposed upon a permanent residence on the
same lot, plot, or tract.
         (c)   A manufactured home may be moved onto a lot, plot, or tract of
land and be used as a temporary residence for a period of time as determined by
the Board of Zoning Appeals; said determination shall be made upon the basis of
the information supplied by the applicant. Prior to the moving of any
manufactured home onto any lot, plot, or tract for said purpose, the owner or
his or her agent shall obtain a special exception grant from the Board of
Zoning Appeals; said grant shall run only for the time determined by the Board.
Upon the expiration the grant may be renewed only by the Board of Zoning
Appeals. The application for renewal shall be handled in the same manner as a
new application.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.008 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Off-street parking. The following off-street parking spaces shall be
provided and satisfactorily maintained, by the owner of the property, for each
building which is hereafter erected, enlarged, or altered for use for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   Each automobile parking space shall not be less than 180 square
feet in area.
      (2)   Dwellings, at least one parking space for each dwelling or sleeping
unit in the building or buildings.
      (3)   For any general auditorium, gymnasium, church, funeral home, or
theater; home school or college, or university auditorium or stadium; or other
similar place of assembly, there shall be provided at least one parking space
for each six seats provided for its patrons, based on the maximum seating
capacity, including fixed and moveable seats. For any church there shall be
allowed the use of joint parking facilities in connection with any buildings or
use not normally open, used, or operated during the principal operating hours
of a church providing a properly drawn legal instrument is executed by the
parties concerned for the joint use of such off street parking facilities,
which instrument, duly approved as to form by the County Attorney, shall be
filed with the application of a zoning permit.
      (4)   For any hotel, apartment hotel, club house, dormitory, fraternity
house or any other similar use or establishment, there shall be provided at
least one parking space for each two guest sleeping rooms.
      (5)   For any hotel in a B-2 district or any other similar use, at least
one parking space for each sleeping room shall be provided.
      (6)   For any dancing, exhibition, labor temple, lodge hall, skating rink
or other assembly hall without fixed seats, there shall be provided not less
than one parking space for each 120 square feet of gross floor area thereof.
      (7)   For any bank, clinic, office building, professional office, welfare
institution or any other similar use or establishment, there shall be provided
not less than one parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
thereof.
      (8)   For any medical clinic or any other similar use, there shall be
provided at least three parking spaces for each doctor or dentist using the
clinic, plus one space for each two regular employees including nurses.
      (9)   For any hospital, sanitarium, convalescent home or any other
similar use of establishment, there shall be provided not less than one parking
space for each three beds or any portion thereof.
      (10)   For any eating or drinking establishment or any other similar use
where customers are seated and served within a building, there shall be
provided at least one parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor
area thereof
      (11)   For any eating or drinking establishment or any other similar use
where customers are served outside of a building, there shall be provided at
least one parking space for each 50 square feet of gross floor area thereof,
provided, however, that there shall not be less than six parking spaces for
each such establishment.
      (12)   For any retail store, except a food market, there shall be
provided not less than one parking space for each 300 square feet of gross
floor area thereof.
      (13)   For any food market establishment or any similar use with a gross
floor area of less than 2,500 square feet, there shall be provided not less
than one parking space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area thereof.
For each gross floor area in excess of 2,500 square feet, there shall be one
parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area thereof in excess of
2,500 square feet.
      (14)   For any manufacturing, processing, wholesaling, storage, or any
other industrial use or commercial establishment not specifically set out in
this section, there shall be provided at least one parking space for each two
employees, plus sufficient spaces to park all company-owned or leased motor
vehicles, semi-trailers and trailers.
      (15)   For any launderette, Laundromat, self-service laundry, washeteria
or any similar use or establishment under a different name, there shall be
provided one parking space for each two washing machines or portion thereof.
      (16)   For any bowling center, there shall be provided four parking
spaces for each bowling alley thereof.
      (17)   For any motel, tourist court, or similar use or establishment,
there shall be provided one parking space on the same parcel of land for each
individual sleeping or living unit.
      (18)   For any camp ground, there shall be provided not less than one
parking space on the same parcel of land for each individual camp site.
      (19)   For any commercial or business office having a gross floor area in
excess of 10,000 square feet and occupied solely by the employees of one
person, as defined in this chapter, there shall be provided at least one
parking space for each 800 square feet of gross floor area thereof.
   (B)   Distance measurements. The distance to any parking space as herein
required shall be measured between the nearest point of the off-street parking
facility and the nearest point of the building said parking area or facility is
to serve.
   (C)   Mixed uses. In the case of any use not listed herein, the number of
parking spaces required for such use shall be the same as for a similar use
which is listed. In the case of mixed uses in the same building or structure,
the total requirement for off-street parking facilities shall be the sum of the
requirements of the various uses computed separately from the items set out in
this section, and off-street parking facilities for one use shall not be
considered as providing required parking facilities for any other use except as
hereinafter specified for collective use.
   (D)   Collective parking facilities.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent collective
provision of any off-street parking facility for two or more buildings or uses
providing, however, that the total number of off-street parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of requirements for the various individual uses
computed separately in accordance with the items set out in this section.
      (2)   All parking spaces provided pursuant to this section shall normally
be on the same lot with the building; however, the Board may permit the parking
spaces to be on any lot within 300 feet of the building except for the
requirements of divisions (A)(17) and (18) above. If the Board determine that
it is impractical to provide parking on the same lot with the building, the
requirements set forth in divisions (A)(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10)
above first above may be waived by the Board in the case of a building erected
or altered as a result of destruction by fire or Act of God, or whenever the
Board determines that more than 75% of the privately owned lands within 300
feet of the building to be erected, enlarged or altered, are improved with
buildings regularly occupied and used.
   (E)   Off-street loading.
      (1)   On the same premises with every building, structure or part
thereof, hereafter erected, established or enlarged and occupied for
manufacturing, storage, warehouse goods display, department store, wholesale
store, market, hotel, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses, involving
the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall
be provided and maintained adequate spaces for standing, loading, and unloading
in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the street or alley.
      (2)   Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include
a 12-foot by 35-foot loading space with 14-foot high clearance for every 20,000
square feet or fraction thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of floor area
used for above mentioned purposes, or for every 20,000 square feet or fraction
thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of land used for the above mentioned
purposes. These requirements may, upon appeal, be increased, modified, or
waived by the Board where the conditions or circumstances justify such action
provided it has obtained thereon recommendation from the County Highway
Supervisor.
   (F)   Public parking area. Every parcel of land which, after the effective
date of this chapter, is changed to a public parking area, automobile or
trailer sales area, filling station or garage, shall be developed as follows:
      (1)   Such area, where subject to wheeled traffic, shall be improved with
bituminous, concrete, crushed stone with an adequate base or other equivalent
surfacing and shall have appropriate bumper guards where needed.
      (2)   Where such area adjoins a lot in an R zone or residential
development, a solid wall, compact evergreen screen or uniformly painted board
fence having a height of not less than four feet shall be erected and
maintained between such area and the property in residential areas and zones.
Such enclosures shall be at least five feet from the side of a lot in an R zone
or residential development and all required front and side yards shall be
properly maintained as such. Where such area is across the street from an R
zone or a residential development, a compact evergreen screen having a height
of not less than four feet shall be erected and maintained between such area
and the property in the said zone or development and all required front yards
shall be maintained as such.
      (3)   Any light used to illuminate said parking area shall be so arranged
as to reflect the light away from the adjoining premises in an R zone or
residential development.
   (G)   Permanency of spaces provided. Any parking or loading space
established prior to the effective date of this chapter and which is used or
intended to be used in connection with any main building, structure or use, or
any spaces designed and intended to comply with the requirements of this
chapter for any such main building or structure erected after such effective
date, shall hereafter be maintained so long as said building or structure
remains, unless the owner provides and maintains in another location an
equivalent number of required spaces in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.009 GENERAL AREA PROVISIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected on
a lot unless such building, combined existing structure plus additions,
conforms with the area regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   (A)   Reduction of lot area. No lot area shall be so reduced, diminished and
maintained that the yards, other open space, or total lot area shall be smaller
than prescribed by this chapter, nor shall the density of population be
increased in any manner except in conformity with the regulations herein
established.
   (B)   Recorded lots less than minimum area. Lots of record at the time of
the enactment of this chapter which have less than the minimum area
requirements for residential use may nevertheless be used for any use permitted
therein, except that for dwellings, the lot must have a width of at least 60
feet, and an area of at least 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Yards apply to only one building. No required yard or other open space
around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any building
for the purpose of complying with the provision of this chapter, shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall
any yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as
providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected.
   (D)   Only one main building on a lot. Every building hereafter erected
shall be located on a lot as herein defined. In no case shall there be more
than one residential building and its accessory buildings on one lot except a
farm tenant dwelling may be erected on the same tract as the main farm
dwelling. Row dwellings or group housing may be considered as one main
residential building.
   (E)   Corner setback. At street intersections of an angle less than 60
degrees, shrubs or structures over three-and-one-half feet high will not be
placed between the intersections of the street lines and ten feet from the
building line.
   (F)   Front yards on a through lot. At each end of a through lot there shall
be a front yard of the depth required by this chapter for the zone in which
each street frontage is located, and one of such front yards may serve as a
required rear yard.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.010 GENERAL HEIGHT PROVISION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected,
enlarged, or reconstructed to exceed the height limit established for the zone
wherein such building or structure is located.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.011 CONTINGENT USES (ALL DISTRICTS).
   The contingent uses hereinafter set forth shall be permitted by the Board,
only after public hearing, in any district where such uses are essential or
desirable to the public convenience or welfare, or if the refusal of this
permit would create an undue hardship on the applicant. No permit for a
contingent use shall be granted if the Board shall find that such use is in
conflict with any plan duly adopted by ordinance, or if the Board determines
the proposed use will be detrimental to the surrounding area. In the exercise
of its approval the Board may impose such additional conditions regarding the
location, character, and other features of the proposed building, structure, or
use as may be reasonably required to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (A)   Such permitted contingent uses are identified as follows.
      (1)   An airport or similarly designed area for the landing and taking
off of aircraft, provided that:
         (a)   The proposed location has been approved by the Commission as to
compatibility with the Master Plan for the physical development of Spencer
County.
         (b)   The area and the arrangement of all improvements shall be
sufficient, for the class of airport proposed, to meet the requirements of the
Federal Aviation Agency, the Aeronautic Administration of Indiana, and any
other rightfully involved in governmental agency.
         (c)   Any proposed buildings, hangars, or other structures shall be at
least 100 feet from any street or lot line.
         (d)   No application shall be considered unless it is accompanied by a
plan, drawn to scale, showing the proposed location of the airport; boundary
lines; dimensions; names of owners of abutting properties; proposed layout of
runways, landing strips or areas, taxi strips, aprons, roads, parking areas,
hangars, buildings, and other structures and facilities; the location and
height of all buildings, structures, trees, and overhead wires falling within
the airport approach zones and less than 500 feet distant from the boundary
lines of the airport; other pertinent data, such as topography and grading
plan, drainage, water, and sewerage, and the like.
      (2)   Cemetery.
      (3)   Governmental installation not otherwise permitted.
      (4)   A hospital, nursing home, sanitarium or asylum which does not treat
mental, drug or alcoholic patients.
      (5)   Medical health center or clinic, with parking provided as specified
by this chapter.
      (6)   Public utility facilities such as: radio and television transmitter
stations and towers; petroleum and natural gas transmission lines, pumping
stations and facilities; electric substations and telephone exchanges where not
otherwise permitted by this chapter; railroad lines; classification yards and
terminals; and other similar uses of a public utility or public service nature;
including structures and appurtenances for their enclosure, maintenance and
operation.
      (7)   Educational institution, including churches.
      (8)   Fairground.
      (9)   Transient amusement enterprise, medicine show or circus, the chief
activity of which is carried on for gain or profit.
      (10)   Private school.
      (11)   Golf course.
   (B)   Authorization for continuance. All contingent uses which existed upon
the effective date of this chapter shall be regarded as conforming uses and may
be continued, except that major changes in layout, expansions or extensions to
such uses shall be subject to Board review and approval as required for
contingent use.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.012 SPECIAL EXCEPTION - SPECIFIED ZONES.
   The special exceptions hereinafter set forth shall be permitted by the
Board, only after public hearing, in the zones indicated in Table 1, official
schedule of uses for Spencer County, Indiana, where such uses are essential or
desirable to the public convenience or welfare or if the refusal of this permit
would create an undue hardship on the applicant. No permit for a special
exception shall be granted if the Board shall find that such use is in conflict
with any plan duly adopted by ordinance, or if the Board determines the
proposed use will be detrimental to the surrounding area. In the exercise of
its approval the Board may impose such additional conditions regarding the
location, character, and other features of the proposed building, structure or
use as may be reasonably required to further the purpose of this chapter.
   (A)   Additional conditions. Additional conditions shall include, at a
minimum, the following.
      (1)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics, animal boarding places,
kennels, and animal shelters/rescues, provided that no part of any building,
pen, or run shall be within 300 feet of any residence.
      (2)   Antique shop, provided that any outdoor display of articles for
sale shall be at least 50 feet from any street or property line.
      (3)   Boarding and/or rooming house. In any A and R-1 zone, the temporary
use for a period of not more than three years, subject to renewal of a single-
family dwelling for a boarding and/or rooming house upon a finding by the Board
that such rooming house will not constitute a nuisance because of sidewalk or
street traffic, noise or type of physical activity, and that such use will not
tend to affect adversely the use and development of adjoining properties of the
immediate neighborhood.
      (4)   Day care facility or home, upon a finding by the Board that said
use will not constitute a nuisance because of traffic, number of children being
cared for, noise or type of physical activity.
      (5)   Sanitary landfills, and incinerators, upon a finding that said use
will not constitute a nuisance because of traffic, noise, odors, smoke, or
physical activity, provided that the area, and setback requirements as
specified by the Boards are complied with, provided that it meets the approval
of the County Board of Health and the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management and the requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, asylum or other institution,
which cares for mental, drug, or alcoholic patients or is a penal or
correctional institution, subject to the conditions that:
         (a)   No part of any building in which inmates or patients are housed
is, or is proposed to be, located less than 300 feet from any bounding lot or
street line.
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking space is provided.
         (c)   Protective man-proof fencing is provided where necessary.
      (7)   Limited office uses in residential zones as a transitional use. In
any R-2 zone a dwelling on any lot or parcel of land immediately abutting along
its side lot line or lying directly opposite a street from any commercial or
industrial district, may be used for limited office purposes provided that such
use is in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Such uses shall be confined to the offices of doctors, dentists,
lawyers, accountants, realtors, engineers, and similar professional persons.
         (b)   Such uses shall not change or alter the exterior characteristic
of the premises and no name plate or other sign exceeding two square feet in
area shall be displayed on the premises.
         (c)   Wherever possible, in the opinion of the Board, all entrances,
driveways, walks, parking areas, and signs incidental to such use shall be
located on the side of the building nearest to the commercial or industrial
zone.
      (8)   Private recreational establishments and uses. In any zone,
buildings and structures for clubs, fraternal organizations, lodges, youth
organizations, fishing ponds, picnic groves, and private recreational
developments all conducted (a) for profit, or (b) not for profit.
      (9)   Special uses allied with agriculture.
         (a)   A trucking operation primarily engaged in commercial
transportation of agricultural products other than those raised on the
premises, feed mills where grain is processed on a commercial basis, poultry
dressing establishments and animal slaughter houses where animals other than
those raised on the premises are processed on a wholesale basis, commercial
welding shops, livestock sales or auction barns, commercial dairy for the
processing, packaging and distribution of dairy products.
         (b)   A greenhouse and/or plant nursery provided retail sales are
limited to the sale of plants and the commodities used in the direct care of
plants.
      (10)   Sand, gravel, or clay pits; rock or stone quarries; coal mining;
removal of earth or top soil, coal storage, loading and handling facilities.
         (a)   Coal mining in any zone. Coal mining operations or related
facilities proposed or located within the county for which a Department of
Natural Resources Permit was issued prior to January 1, 1989, shall be
considered as having valid existing rights, and this chapter shall not apply
within the bounds of those operations or facilities, or any subsequent non-
significant departure area to them, as approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
         (b)   In any zone, the use of vacant land for the removal of natural
material or deposits including, but not limited to, sand, gravel, clay, rock or
stone, earth or top soil; all such uses shall be subject to §
157.016, mineral extraction standards, included in this chapter.
      (11)   Sawmill. A sawmill, for a period of not more than three years
subject to renewal, for the cutting of timber grown in the immediate area,
provided that no saw or other machinery shall be less than 100 feet from any
lot or street line and that all power saws and machinery will be secured
against tempering or locked when not in use.
      (12)   Manufactured home parks. Manufactured home parks may be permitted
in B-2, B-3 and M-1 zones. They may also be permitted in A, R-1, and R-2 zones
only when the proposed mobile home park site is at least 600 feet from existing
residences. After a public hearing, the decision of the County Board of Zoning
Appeals shall determine whether or not the proposed site may be used for the
purpose intended. The requirements of §
157.013, manufactured housing standards, shall be fulfilled in all manufactured
home parks located in the county, approved subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter.
      (13)   Camp grounds. Camp grounds may be permitted in any B-2, B-3, and
I-1 zones. They may also be permitted in A and R-2 zones, only when the site is
at least 600 feet from existing residences. They may be permitted in the F-
2 zone providing they receive approval from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Water, prior to the Board’s approval. After a public
hearing the decision of the County Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine
whether or not the proposed site may be used for the purpose intended.
      (14)   Community unit projects. The owner or owners of any tract of land
comprising an area of 20 or more acres may be submitted to the County Plan
Commission for the use and development of this land for mixed dwelling purposes
in a residential district. It shall be referred to the Plan Commission for
study. The Plan Commission shall advertise and hold a public hearing. After the
public hearing by the Commission, the plan, together with recommendations of
the Commission, shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners for
consideration. The considerations for approval and recommendation by the Plan
Commission shall be that:
         (a)   The property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not
be adversely affected.
         (b)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter to promote health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
         (c)   The buildings shall be used for single-family dwellings of the
usual type, or of the cluster type development, duplexes, three and four family
dwellings, row houses or apartments, condominiums, and usual accessory uses
such as garages, parking areas, storage space, administrative buildings, and
community activities including churches.
         (d)   The area shall be provided with community or city sewers and
water system and with fire protection.
         (e)   The average lot area per family and minimum yard shall be as
follows:
            1.   Single-family dwellings: 7,000 square feet.
            2.   Cluster development. Overall density shall not exceed that of
the zone in which the land occurs. The houses in the proposed subdivision shall
be grouped in clusters. The minimum lot area shall be two-thirds of the minimum
normally required in the zone in which the land is located.
            3.   Two-family dwellings: 10,000 square feet or 5,000 square feet
per dwelling unit.
            4.   Row houses and low apartments not to exceed 35 feet in height,
10,000 square feet for the first two units and 4,000 square feet for each
additional unit.
         (f)   Provisions shall be made for sufficient utility easements to
service the property.
         (g)   1.   Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided as in
Section §
157.008(F). In case parking lots are provided, the following shall be required:
               a.   There shall be a setback from the street conforming to
requirements of the zone in which the lot is located.
               b.   The area around the improvement shall be landscaped.
               c.   There shall be a solid wall or screen planting at least
three-and-one-half feet in height along the street and any side adjoining
residential property provided it is not in violation with the provisions of §
157.009.
               d.   The improvement shall be at least ten feet from any
property line and 25 feet from any building.
            2.   If the Board of County Commissioners approves the plan,
improvement location permits and certificates of occupancy may be issued even
though the use of the land and the location of the building to be erected and
the yards and open spaces contemplated by the Plan Commission do not conform in
all respects to the regulations of the zone in which the development is
located.
      (15)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles may remain on a lot,
parcel, or tract of property for residential purposes in any unincorporated
zones for a period of 180 days. After 180 days, the owner or owners of any
tract, parcel, or lot housing a recreational vehicle for continued residential
purposes shall apply for and receive a special exceptions permit before said
use may continue.
   (B)   Considerations for any special exception. In considering a petition
for any permitted special exception, the Board shall give due regard to the
following factors as they will apply to the particular situation:
      (1)   The location and size of the use; the nature and intensity of the
operations involved in or conducted in connection with it; its site layout,
including parking space requirements; and its relation to streets giving access
to it so that vehicular traffic to and from the use will not create undue
hazards to the normal traffic of the vicinity, taking into account among other
things, vehicular turning movement in relation to routes of traffic flow,
relation to street intersections, sight distances, and relation to pedestrian
traffic.
      (2)   The nature, location, size, and site layout of the use so that it
will be harmonious to the district in which it is situated.
   (C)   Authorization for continuance.
      (1)   All special exceptions, except sanitary landfills and incinerators,
which existed upon the effective date of this chapter and which are located in
a district which would permit such use in accordance with the provisions of the
section, shall be regarded as conforming uses and may be continued, except that
major changes in layout, expansion or extension to such uses shall be subject
to Board review and approval as required for special exception.
      (2)   All special exceptions hereafter authorized by the Board in
accordance with the provisions of this section, shall be regarded as conforming
uses and may be continued, except that major changes in layout, expansion or
extension to such use shall be subject to Board review and approval as required
for special exceptions.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2014-14A, passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 2015-05, passed 6-
16-2015)
§ 157.013 MANUFACTURED HOUSING STANDARDS.
   Manufactured homes, Type A and B, shall be permitted as permanent residence
on any lot or parcel on which any other type of dwelling unit may be placed as
provided by the requirements of this chapter (P.L. 312. Acts of 1981 - I.C. 36-
7-4-1106), and such homes that meet the following requirements and limitations:
   (A)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings;
   (B)   The home shall be larger than 700 square feet of occupied space and
meet the minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zone;
   (C)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation in
conformance with the regulations in the Indiana One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and with manufacturer’s installation and specifications;
   (D)   Exterior material and roof treatment may be determined by the Board of
Zoning Appeals or Zoning Administrator on a case by case basis, as follows:
      (1)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation;
      (2)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site-built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
   (E)   The following requirements shall be fulfilled in all manufactured home
parks located in Spencer County.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   An applicant for a manufactured home permit shall apply
therefore to the Commission upon the prescribed forms. Said application shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by a
preliminary development plan for the entire tract involved, together with
supporting data thereof.
         (b)   Upon receipt of such application, development plan and data, the
Commission shall review same and if approval of the plan is given, a hearing
shall be scheduled, by the applicant, before the Board of Zoning Appeals asking
that the Board grant a special exception for the proposed use.
         (c)   The Commission shall consider such comments and shall review the
proposed development plan and supporting data upon the basis of the
requirements of this chapter. Thereafter, the Commission shall take action as
follows:
            1.   If it shall find that such plan meets the requirements of this
chapter, it shall approve the same as the final development plan.
            2.   If it shall find that such plan does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter and is not susceptible of alteration, change or
amendment to meet such requirements, the Commission shall disapprove the same.
         (d)   In the event the developer proposes to develop the tract by
sections, the developer shall submit all data and final development plans for
the section to be developed. The Commission shall not approve any further
development plans for any section or sections of the tract until all
improvements serving the previously approved section or sections are completely
installed as approved. The first section submitted to the Commission shall
include a minimum of 25% of the total proposed development.
      (2)   Development plan. The owner or developer of such tract of land
shall have prepared a development plan for the entire tract which shall include
the following:
         (a)   Proposed name of the manufactured home park.
         (b)   Location by township, section, or other legal description.
         (c)   Name and address of the developer.
         (d)   Date, scale, and north point.
         (e)   Location, widths, and names of all existing platted streets or
other public ways, railroads and utility rights-of-way, parks, and other public
open spaces, existing buildings and structures within and adjacent to the
tract.
         (f)   Adjoining boundary lines of all adjacent land uses, describing
said land uses, showing the name of the developer or owner, or some other means
of identification.
         (g)   Layout of proposed streets, their widths, also the widths of
alleys, cross walkways, and easements.
         (h)   Layout of proposed lots, their numbers and dimensions.
         (i)   Parcels of land intended for public use.
         (j)   Manufactured home limit lines.
         (k)   Contours at intervals of not more than five feet.
         (l)   Location and type of easements.
         (m)   Information as to any agreements which have been entered into
with the owners of other property within the neighborhood in which the proposed
manufactured home park is located, as to general plans for the entire
neighborhood.
         (n)   Such other data as the Plan Commission may by rule require. Any
such rule shall be adopted by Commission resolution only after a public
hearing.
      (3)   Development plan requirements. In determining the approval or
disapproval of a proposed development plan and supporting data, the Commission
shall be governed by the following:
         (a)   The tract to be developed shall contain a minimum of five acres
exclusive of all existing or proposed road right-of-ways.
         (b)   Lot area and dimensions.
            1.   Minimum lot width shall be 35 feet, measured perpendicular to
the side lot line.
            2.   The minimum lot area for a manufactured home shall be 3,200
square feet, which shall require an on-street parking area for all vehicles in
the park and a playground for children, allowing a minimum of 200 square feet
of play area per manufactured home lot. A lot size of 3,300 square feet may be
adopted with a choice of on-street parking area or playground and/or a lot size
of 3,500 square feet may be adopted with no on-street parking area or
playground. In the event on-street parking is not provided, one off-street
parking space shall be provided on each lot. One parking space per each four
lots shall be provided by the developer in addition to the above requirements.
         (c)   Location of manufactured home on lot shall be as follows:
            1.   The minimum front yard from home to front lot line shall be 20
feet.
            2.   Minimum side yard shall be four feet.
            3.   Minimum rear yard shall be eight feet.
            4.   Minimum distance between manufactured homes shall be 20 feet;
minimum distance between any additions to or projections of a manufactured home
and the next adjacent manufactured home shall be ten feet. In the event the
complete manufactured home is in excess of 14 feet in width, the minimum
distance between manufactured homes shall be ten feet. In any event the
aggregate total of side yards shall not be less than ten feet.
         (d)   Provision must be made, in every manufactured home park, for a
road in front of every lot. The road surface shall be of the all-weather type
with a traffic surface of not less than 20 feet in width, properly crowned and
graded. When off-street parking is not utilized, a parking surface of eight
feet in width shall be provided along each side of said traffic surface. When
such roads come in contact with any public roads or highway, reinforced
concrete sewer pipe with cemented joints or continuous iron or steel pipe shall
be installed to provide drainage. The cost of such pipe shall be defrayed by
the owner or operator of the park and the installation shall be approved by the
County Highway Supervisor and the County Surveyor. All roads within the park
must be accessible for traffic at all times and shall be maintained in first
class condition. Roads in any manufactured home park will not be accepted into
the county road system; therefore, the operator shall provide for their
maintenance.
         (e)   Sidewalks of a 30-inch minimum width shall be provided by the
developer; said sidewalks shall serve each lot and manufactured home.
         (f)   Street lighting shall be provided by the developer. The light
value on all occupied streets shall be a minimum of one-tenth foot candle.
      (4)   Water supply. Water supply shall be from a municipal water service
or from approved and protected driven wells that meet all test requirements,
provided with tight, elevated concrete platforms and which will not be subject
to overflow or surface drainage. The source and supply of the water for human
consumption must meet all the requirements of the Spencer County and State
Boards of Health. The use of open wells, springs, cisterns, or open storage
tanks for human consumption is unlawful and shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this chapter.
      (5)   Waste and garbage disposal.
         (a)   Manufactured home parks must be kept in clean and sanitary
condition and provided with suitable covered metal receptacles for garbage,
waste, litter, and trash. Receptacles must be emptied once a week and the
contents of same must be disposed of immediately by incineration or other
approved means of a regular collection by a garbage disposal service.
         (b)   Liquid wastes from manufactured homes shall be collected by a
sewage system which has a trapped outlet available to each lot or unit plot and
which shall discharge into an approved sewage disposal system. The use of
buckets as a depository for waste is unlawful.
      (6)   Sewage treatment and sewage disposal. Primary treatment of all
sewage shall be through a sewage disposal process which meets all county and
state health requirements. If septic tanks are used, a percolation test will be
required, meeting the specifications of the county and state Sanitation Code.
If a sewage disposal plant or lagoon is used, the system must be approved by
the Spencer County and State Boards of Health. Every manufactured home park
shall provide one or more service buildings based upon the requirements set
forth in the Indiana General Assembly Acts of 1955, Chapter 321, Sections 16 to
21 and amendments thereto. Supervision and maintenance of the manufactured home
park shall comply with the Indiana General Assembly Acts of 1955, Chapter 321,
Section 11 and amendments thereto.
      (7)   Alterations. It shall be unlawful to remove the rolling equipment
or any part thereof from any manufactured home in any manufactured home park,
other than for incidental repair.
      (8)   Registration requirements for owners and operators. Every person
proposing the expansion of an existing or creating a new manufactured home park
shall apply to the Spencer County Plan Commission for an improvement location
permit and shall furnish such relevant information, plans and specifications as
will enable the aforesaid board to pass on the eligibility of such manufactured
home park.
      (9)   Forms required for operators and tenants.
         (a)   Every owner, agent, lessee, person, firm, or corporation that
operates or manages any area, tract, subdivision, or any part thereof for use
as a manufactured home park, shall file with the Spencer County Plan Commission
at the time of opening the park for occupancy, a manufactured home park
registration. The form shall be furnished by the Commission.
         (b)   The owner or operator, or agent of the owner or operator, before
renting or leasing any plot, shall complete the manufactured home registration
form which shall be furnished by the Commission. An original and five copies of
the firm will be filled out and distributed with one completed form to each of
the following:
            1.   The manufactured home park operator.
            2.   The State Health Service.
            3.   The Spencer County Plan Commission.
            4.   The School Superintendent of the district in which the park is
situated.
            5.   The Spencer County Sheriff.
            6.   The Spencer County Board of Health.
         (c)   The copies of this form are all to be made out in full and
properly signed and distributed as indicated. The failure to furnish these
records as prescribed shall constitute a misdemeanor within the terms of this
chapter.
      (10)   Common open space requirement and perimeter requirement. Ten
percent (10%) of the total area of a park, exclusive of buffer yards and road
rights-of-way shall be dedicated for permanent common open space. Manufactured
home parks shall be surrounded by buffer yards measuring not less than 50 feet
in depth on the front and not less than 25 feet in depth on the side and rear
between the mobile home sites and adjoining property lines.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 157.014 CONFINED FEEDING OPERATIONS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section is adopted for the protection of farming interest and
to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by regulating
confined animal feeding operations. It is intended to protect property values,
and minimize conflicts between farmers and rural residential uses while
enhancing and protecting the physical and scenic appearance of Spencer County
as outlined in the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   CONFINED FEEDING is defined as the feeding of animals in a confined
area according to the following state regulations, including all amendments:
         (a)   Three hundred (300) or more cattle.
         (b)   Six hundred (600) or more swine or sheep.
         (c)   Thirty thousand (30,000) or more fowl.
   (B)   Development standards. All confined feeding operations must conform to
I.C. 13-18-10-01, et seq. including all amendments. All non-farm residential
uses and confined feeding operations must also meet the following standards:
      (1)   All structures and confined lots designed to house or contain
livestock shall be set back 900 feet from any existing residence except that of
the confined feeding operator.
      (2)   All structures and confined lots designed to house or contain
livestock shall be set back 900 feet from any church, business, school,
recreational area (public or private) public buildings and 900 feet from any
area zoned residential or any area that has a recorded residential plot.
      (3)   (a)   All structures shall be setback 150 feet from a public road
right-of-way.
         (b)   If the waste handling facility of an operation is an open
earthen pit, the setback distance shall be increased to 2,000 feet in division
(B)(1) above: 2,000 and 2,500 feet respectively in division (B)(2) and no less
than 200 feet in division (B)(3).
      (4)   No new residential structures except that of the confined feeding
operation may be constructed within 900 feet of an existing or granted (permit
or otherwise) confined feeding operation.
      (5)   No new church, business, school, recreational area (public or
private) or public building may be constructed or operated within 900 feet of
an existing or granted (permit or otherwise) confined livestock or poultry
feeding operation.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 157.015 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   In any district in which recreational vehicle parks are permitted, the
following requirements shall apply:
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parks shall have direct access to a public
highway or road with sufficient frontage for the proper construction of safe
entrances and exits.
   (B)   Conditions of soil, groundwater level, drainage, geologic structure
and topography shall not create hazards to the park site or to the health and
safety of occupants, nor shall the site be subject to the hazards of
objectionable smoke, odor or noise, or the possibility of subsidence, sudden
flooding or severe erosion.
   (C)   The density of a park shall not exceed 15 recreational vehicle spaces
for each acre of gross site area.
   (D)   The minimum area of a recreational vehicle park shall be five acres.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles and structures shall comply with the required
minimum setback and yard provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Where the boundary line of a recreational vehicle park coincides with
that of a residential district other than along a thoroughfare or alley, a yard
separation of at least 25 feet in width shall be required.
   (G)   At least one centrally located recreation area equal in size to 8% of
the gross park area shall be provided in each recreational vehicle park.
Streets, parking areas and park service facility areas shall not be included in
the required recreational area.
   (H)   Food stores, restaurants, sporting good stores, Laundromats, dry-
cleaning pickup stations and similar convenience and service shops may be
permitted in recreational vehicle parks containing 50 or more spaces provided
that shops and the parking area required by their use shall not occupy more
than 10% of the total park area. The shops shall be primarily for the use of
park occupants. The shops shall be located and designed within the park to
present no visible evidence of their commercial nature to persons outside the
park.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.016 MINERAL EXTRACTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of these standards are to provide land for the mining,
excavation, processing and storing of mineral resources. These standards are
designed to ensure that these resources are properly managed and that all land
on which mineral extraction has occurred will be left in such condition, so as
to not create a hazard or nuisance which either immediately or in the future
affects the health, safety or general welfare of the community.
      (2)   No production shall be started until the Board of Zoning Appeals
has made a written determination and approval with respect to the conditions
under which such operation shall be conducted. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall investigate the area to be developed, as well as the surrounding area, in
order to determine the conditions to be prescribed so as to protect surrounding
property.
   (B)   Development standards.
      (1)   All applications for said uses shall be accompanied by a map or
plat showing the area proposed to be included in the extraction or removal of
material; and a final grading plan which shows the existing ground elevations
of the site and the land immediately adjacent thereto, the location and
elevation of all bounding streets or rounds, and the final elevations of the
site at the termination of the operation with respect to the elevations of the
immediately adjacent land and bounding streets or roads.
      (2)   Unless the Board specifies otherwise, the areas exposed by said
operation shall not have a final cut slope of steeper than three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical distance and shall be left suitable for
development purposes in accordance with the final grading plan approved by the
Board.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals,
temporary operating cut slopes steeper than one foot horizontal to one foot
vertical shall in no case be brought closer to an exterior property line,
right-of-way line of any street, road, way, or alley, as existing or as
proposed in the Master Plan than 50 feet where a sight screen is provided or 75
feet in the case where no provision is made for sight screening.
      (4)   Explosives shall be used only between sunup and sundown except in
case of an emergency.
      (5)   All buildings, structures or equipment shall be entirely removed
from the property within one year after the expiration of the permit.
      (6)   Dikes or other barriers and drainage structures shall be provided
to prevent silting of natural channels or storm drains in the area surrounding
said uses.
      (7)   Where required by the Board, final cut slopes shall be treated to
prevent erosion; topsoil shall be replaced on such slopes to support
vegetation; ground cover shall be planted within 12 months after a cut slope is
excavated to its final position; and such ground cover shall be maintained for
a period of time sufficient to provide vegetation of a density that will
prevent erosion.
      (8)   Where required, suitable plant material shall be placed and
maintained to screen slopes from public view. There shall be no open storage of
discarded machinery, trash or junk which would present an unsightly appearance.
      (9)   Quarries and sand and gravel pits shall be operated so as to keep
dust and noise to a minimum, and access roads shall be maintained as dust-free
surfaces from the public street to within 100 feet of the loading point within
the quarry or sand and gravel pit when adjacent the quarry or sand and gavel
pit when adjacent properties are used or zoned for residential purposes.
      (10)   Vehicles carrying materials from quarries or sand and gravel pits
shall be loaded in such manner as to prevent spilling rock, gravel, sand or
other materials of a mineral nature while in transit upon roads and highways.
      (11)   Quarry or sand and gravel pit excavations which may penetrate near
or into a useable water bearing stratum shall be conducted in such a manner
that any such stratum so approached or encountered will not be subject to
pollution or contamination either during quarrying operations or the excavation
of a sand and gravel pit or subsequent to the abandonment of said quarry or
sand and gravel pit.
      (12)   All state and federal laws and requirements pertaining to coal
mining and the additional requirements of this chapter hereafter listed are
hereby adopted as the requirements and standards which shall govern coal mining
activities conducted in Spencer County, Indiana.
      (13)   All applications for a coal mining special exception permit shall
be made in writing to the Spencer County Planning Commission and shall contain
the following data:
         (a)   Name of the owner, common address, and legal description of the
property;
         (b)   Zoning classification of the property;
         (c)   An accurate map showing the property for which the special
exception is requested.
         (d)   Consent by the title owner of the property to inclusion in the
application as evidenced by a notarized instrument or an affidavit by the
applicant indicating consent has been obtained from title owner.
         (e)   Name and address of the entity conducting the mining operation
including that of any subcontractor.
         (f)   Copy of the application(s) filed with state and federal
authorities.
      (14)   Any portion of any road from or within a coal mine operation which
lies within 100 yards of any inhabited dwelling shall be treated to control
dust.
      (15)   No coal mining operation shall discharge across its permit or
lease boundaries, whichever is greater, air pollutants in such concentration
where such pollutants exceed the air pollution standards imposed by the
environmental protection agency or appropriate state agency.
      (16)   No surface coal mining, blasting or use of explosive charges shall
be permitted within 100 feet of any county owned, Spencer County municipal
owned, or Spencer County public entity owned roadway or transmission line,
without written consent of applicable county, municipality or other Spencer
County public owner. It is not the intent of this division to deny the recovery
of coal at a closer distance to said facilities, but to insure that the
operator has made satisfactory financial commitments and guarantees to the
public owner should the operator’s actions or lack thereof result in damage to
said facility.
      (17)   Coal mining operations which may penetrate near or into a water
bearing stratum being used shall be conducted in such a manner that any such
stratum so approached or encountered will not be subject to diminution or
contamination, unless the user is provided with an acceptable alternate source
by the coal mine operator. The coal mine operator shall replace, within a
reasonable time, water supplies, whether from cisterns, ponds, lakes, or wells,
adversely impacted by contamination, diminution, or interruption proximately
resulting from the coal mining operation.
      (18)   Any applicant proposing to use any portion of a Spencer County
controlled public road to transport its mined coal shall secure the approval of
the Board of Commissioners of Spencer County of its transportation plan and map
for hauling in compliance with any county road ordinances prior to approval of
a special exception permit, and shall post any required bonds and/or escrow
funds prior to commencing actual hauling operations.
      (19)   Every operator of a coal mine in Spencer County, before commencing
operations, shall be insured for damages which may result from or be caused by
said operation. All holders of Spencer County special exception coal mining
permits shall at all times have on file in the office of the Spencer County
Plan Commission current proof of such insurance in the amount required by 310
I.A.C. 12-4-19 and any additional amounts required under division (B)(16) of
this section.
      (20)   Coal mining is a limited duration use, and once such use is
terminated, the site, excluding any constructed water impoundments, shall
revert to its original classification unless rezoned in accordance with
established procedures. The area or areas considered to be part of a coal mine
facility shall be those areas of land from which overburden is to be removed
and upon which overburden is to be deposited and all other lands affected by
the operation. New roads or the improvement or use of existing roads, other
than public roads, to gain access and to haul coal shall be included in lands
affected.
      (21)   Non compliance or violation of any part of this chapter may be
grounds for termination of any permit issued in accordance with same.
      (22)   An operator or person whose Spencer County special exception coal
mining permit has been revoked, suspended or terminated shall not be eligible
to have another permit, or to have any suspended permit(s) reinstated, until he
or she shall have compliance with all the requirements in respect to all
permits issued him or her by Spencer County.
      (23)   Invalidation of any portion of this chapter shall not operate to
invalidate any other part of portion of this chapter, any such partial
invalidation shall not decrease or diminish the effect or purpose of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.017 WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY STANDARDS.
   These requirements are established to provide suitable standards for
handling and disposal of wastes on land in the county. The county recognizes
that disposal of waste is an essential function in the community and that the
specific requirements of such an operation will vary with the nature of the
operation and its location. It is the intent of these standards to allow needed
flexibility in the siting, development and operation of waste disposal
facilities. It also is the intent of these standards to establish regulations
which are necessary to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   (A)   Procedure for designating waste disposal facilities.
      (1)   Application for operation of a waste disposal facility shall be
made to the Spencer County Plan Commission for a special exception in the
allowable districts shown in Appendix A of this chapter, official schedule of
uses. The application shall include the following materials:
         (a)   Evidence that the property proposed for designation is publicly
owned or leased or is under option for purchase or lease by a qualified public
entity.
         (b)   Legal description of the property included in the request.
         (c)   Drawing indicating existing features of the site and property
within one half mile of the site, including significant vegetation, water
features, topography, soil characteristics, flood hazard areas, drainage,
structures, land uses, zoning and any other pertinent features.
         (d)   Site plan showing the details of the proposed development,
including proposed structures, fill area and maximum heights of fill, borrow
areas, access drives, parking areas, screening and/or buffering and any other
similar information the county deems pertinent to the request.
         (e)   Proposed hours of operation.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on the request and
make a favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation to the Board of Zoning Appeals regarding it. Such hearing shall
be conducted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 and with the Commission’s Rules of
Procedure.
      (3)   In making a favorable recommendation to the Board Zoning Appeals,
the Plan Commission may suggest such conditions of approval as it deems
appropriate to ensure consistency with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing at the
meeting at which the special exception will be decided. In approving the
request, the Board of Zoning Appeals may impose such conditions as it deems
appropriate to ensure consistency with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
These conditions may be, but are not required to be, those suggested by the
Plan Commission.
      (5)   If a waste disposal facility is approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the property may be developed for said use only in accordance with the
approved plan for the site. Any material changes to said plan must be approved
by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (6)   For so long as the parcel is being is being actively pursued for
the waste disposal facility, the special exception approval shall continue. In
the event that a parcel approved as a waste disposal facility is not being
actively pursued for a consecutive period of two years, such approval shall be
null and void and the zoning district shall govern the development of the
property. However, the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant extensions to the
approval period, provided the date of expiration of such extension is
established.
      (7)   No construction of any waste disposal facility may be commenced
until all required permits are obtained, including but not limited to an
Indiana Department of Environmental Management permit, a zoning compliance
certificate, and an improvement location permit. Construction includes any
grading, filling, excavation, structural alterations or other similar activity.
Any such activity which is required in order to obtain needed permits, such as
soil borings, is excluded from this provision.
   (B)   The waste disposal facility standards may be applied to any allowed
zoning district established by this chapter, provided the proposed waste
disposal complies with the requirements of this section.
      (1)   The waste disposal facility is restricted to lands used by a public
entity for handling and disposal of wastes.
      (2)   The property proposed for the waste disposal facility shall be
large enough to accommodate the use and any accessory or ancillary activities,
including parking, loading, landscaping, offices, storage building and
utilities.
      (3)   All waste disposal facilities shall have adequate access and
adequate street frontage. The county may require on-site and/or off-site
improvements to infrastructure in order to ensure safe and proper access to the
facility. In making this determination, the county shall consider the types,
sizes and numbers of vehicles which are expected to use the facility.
      (4)   All waste disposal facilities shall be adequately screened and
buffered from neighboring land uses. Screening may consist of berms,
landscaping, fencing or a combination thereof. Outdoor storage may not exceed
the height of the screen. The county may require minimum separation distances
between the facility and adjacent land uses.
      (5)   The county shall impose such requirements as are necessary to
reasonably mitigate adverse effects of waste disposal facilities. Such
requirements include but are not limited to height limitations, dust control,
erosion control, noise control and limitations on the hours of operation.
      (6)   Signs associated with the waste disposal facility shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter, unless the county approves specific
modifications to those regulations as part of the approval of the special
exception.
      (7)   The county may require financial guarantees of performance in order
to provide assurance that the waste disposal facility will be completed in
conformance with the approved plan.
      (8)   The county may impose such other conditions as are appropriate and
deemed necessary for consistency with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
ZONES
§ 157.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the unincorporated area of the
county is hereby divided into 14 zones and districts designated as follows:
      (1)   F2 Flood Plain Zone.
      (2)   A Agricultural Zone.
      (3)   R1 One-Family Zone.
      (4)   R2 Multi-Family Zone.
      (5)   B1 Neighborhood Business Zone.
      (6)   B2 Rural Business Zone.
      (7)   B3 General Business Zone.
      (8)   I1 Light Industrial Zone.
      (9)   I2 Heavy Industrial Zone.
   (B)   The above zones and districts and the boundaries of such zones and
districts are hereby established as shown on the map entitled “Spencer County
Zoning Map”, maps 1 through 13, dated May 1, 1978, which accompanies this
chapter and is on file in the offices of the County Auditor and the Commission.
Said map and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter.
   (C)   Land which may hereafter become unincorporated areas of the county
shall be included in the A zone until changed by amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.031 ZONE AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated, the zone boundary lines are land lines,
the center lines of streets, parkways, alleys or railroad rights-of-way, or
such lines extended. Other lines within blocks are rear or side lot lines, or
such lines extended.
   (B)   Where the physical layout existing on the ground varies from the
layout as shown on the zoning map, the Zoning Administrator of the Commission
shall interpret said map according to the reasonable intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
FLOOD HAZARD AREA REGULATIONS
§ 157.045 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-
4 granted the power to local government units to control land use within their
jurisdictions. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of Spencer County, Indiana
does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of Spencer County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-
proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health.
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas.
      (7)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.046 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this subchapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this subchapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (see FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls;
         (b)   If a structure has more than one enclosed area, each shall have
openings on exterior walls;
         (c)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (d)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
157.047(B) of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of Spencer
County are generally identified as such on the Spencer County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated May 18, 2015 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C.)
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2003-19, passed 10-2-2003)
§ 157.047 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Spencer County.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Spencer County shall be as delineated
on the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Spencer
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated May 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of Spencer County, delineated as an
“A Zone” on the Spencer County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated May 18, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall
be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements.
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of Spencer
County, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana,
for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
   (I)   Penalties for violation. Failure to obtain a floodplain development
permit in the SFHA or failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain
development permit or conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance
and be treated as such in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for
Spencer County. All violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding
$100.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Spencer County Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.048 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The Board of Commissioners of Spencer
County, Indiana hereby appoints the Spencer County Plan Commission
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this subchapter and
is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development.
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
         (c)   A legal description of the property site.
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades.
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. See §
157.048(C)(6) for additional information.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure
or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
         (b)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a
floodproofed structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional
engineer and certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
157.049(E) and (G)(1) of this subchapter, and maintain a record of such
authorization (either copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this subchapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
157.048(B).
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
157.048(B).
      (13)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the floodplain administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this subchapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.049 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section,
all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage
below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days.
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
         (g)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
      (2)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(4) of this section.
      (3)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood-proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (B)(4) of this section. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be
flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
157.048(C)(12).
         (b)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements
of elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other
exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude
finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (5)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
         (b)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
         (a)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as a result of a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(4) of this section.
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (b)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above
grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(4) of this section.
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated
earlier in this section.
      (7)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (B)(4) of this section.
      (8)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA
and/or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
      (6)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (D)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to
the extent possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways.
      (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
157.047(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving, and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in this section have been met. The floodplain
development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for construction
in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a
community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
      (3)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the
efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse
affect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (4)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR §
65.12.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe. If the site is located in an
identified fringe, then the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit provided the provisions contained in this section
have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new
or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
section have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not
increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase
flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (H)   Standards for flood prone areas. All development in known flood prone
areas not identified on FEMA maps, or where no FEMA published map is available,
shall meet applicable standards as required per this section.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.050 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
board may appeal such decision to the Spencer County Circuit Court.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and;
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (4)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site.
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
157.049(E) or (G)(1) of this subchapter may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
157.049(E) or (G)(1) of this subchapter will require a permit from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §
157.049(B), may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot
of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See §
157.050(E)).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
157.050(E)).
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and;
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the
Floodplain Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure” and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
AGRICULTURAL ZONE REGULATIONS
§ 157.065 AGRICULTURAL ZONE.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Agricultural Zone regulations that the areas
zoned agricultural be preserved for agricultural uses, which uses include, but
are not limited to, production of crops, animal husbandry, land application of
animal waste, the raising, breeding and sale of livestock and poultry,
including confinement feeding operations, use of farm machinery and the sale of
farm products. It is further the intent that such agricultural uses, whether
currently existing, or hereafter established, enlarged, or changed, do not
constitute a nuisance to another activity or use, including residences, so long
as they are not negligently maintained, do not cause bodily injury to third
parties, or directly endanger human health.
   (B)   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the A Agricultural Zone:
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Shall be as shown on Table 1, official schedule of uses and the
following:
            1.   Stands for the retail sale of agricultural products or
commodities raised on the premises. Off-street parking shall be provided in
accordance with §
157.008.
            2.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of
the above uses including home occupation, provided that the residential
character of such dwelling is not changed and that there shall be not more than
one assistant employed.
            3.   Professional office in a one-family dwelling, provided that
such use is incidental to the main use as a dwelling and further provided that
such use is limited to a person actually residing in the dwelling.
            4.   Name plate and advertising devices, provided that they shall
be erected in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.135 through
157.137.
            5.   Riding stable of a private, noncommercial nature on at least
three acres of land.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Maximum height of dwelling. Maximum height of a dwelling shall
be two and one-half stories, not to exceed 35 feet.
         (b)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in
§
157.120.
      (3)   Lot area and yards.
         (a)   Lot area. Except as hereinafter provided, no residential
structure shall be erected in any A Agricultural Zone unless said structure,
when completed, shall have frontage on a street, as defined herein, and shall
be in conformity with the following requirements; unless additional lot area is
required to be in conformance with any federal, state or local health or
environmental agency, or unless the requirements of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of Spencer County have been met.
 
                Minimum Width at Minimum Net Site Required Lot Area Per
                Front Building   Area (square     Dwelling Unit
                Line (feet)      feet)            No. of Units Square Feet Per
                                                               Unit
If served by                                      1            38,000
individual well 100              43,560                        
septic tank                                       2            20,000
If served by
public or other                                   1            18,000
approved        100              21,780                        
community water                                   2            20,000
or sewer system
Required lot area shall be exclusive of proposed road right-of-way.
 
         (b)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard between the building
line and the highway and street proposed right-of-way lines as shown on the
thoroughfare plan as follows:
 
Type of Thoroughfare             Setback Distance
1) Arterial                      75 feet
2) Primary                       70 feet
3) Secondary                     60 feet
4) Section and half section line 40 feet
5) Local (residential)           30 feet
 
         (c)   Side yard. There shall be two side yards for each lot, the
minimum width of either and the aggregate width of both shall be as follows:
 
                         Minimum Width of One Side  Average Width of Both Yards
                         Yard
If served by individual  20 feet                    45 feet
septic tank and well
More than one dwelling   Above plus 2 feet per      Above plus 4 feet per
unit                     additional unit            additional unit
If served by public or   10% of the lot width or 15 25% of the lot width or 35
other approved community feet, whichever is less    feet, whichever is less
water and sewer system
More than one dwelling   Above plus 2 feet per      Above plus 4 feet per
unit                     additional unit            additional unit
The side street, side yard of any corner lot shall be not less than 25 feet.
 
         (d)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25% of
the depth of the lot.
         (e)   Lot coverage. Not more than 20% of the area of a lot may be
covered by buildings and structures.
         (f)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
      (4)   Building size. No building shall be erected for residential
purposes having a floor area of less than 760 square feet per primary dwelling
unit, exclusive of unenclosed porches, terraces, and garages. Additional units
shall have a minimum of 480 square feet per each additional unit.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2007-04, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2016-12, passed 11-
1-2016)
RESIDENTIAL ZONE REGULATIONS
§ 157.075 R1 ONE-FAMILY ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the R1 One-Family Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Shall be as shown in Appendix A of this chapter,
official schedule of uses, and the following:
      (1)   Swimming pools as specified under the conditions of §
157.065.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses including home occupation, provided that the residential character
of such dwelling is not changed and that there shall be not more than one
assistant employed.
      (3)   Name plate or advertising devices, provided they shall be in
accordance with the provisions of §§
157.135 through
157.137.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height of dwellings. Maximum height of dwelling shall be
two stories, not to exceed 35 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Lot area and yards.
      (1)   Lot area. Except as hereinafter provided, no residential structure
shall be erected in any R1 one-family zone unless said structure when completed
shall have frontage on a street, as defined herein, and shall be in conformity
with the following requirements, unless additional lot area is required to be
in conformance with any federal, state or local health or environmental agency
or unless the requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance of Spencer
County have been met.
 
                    Minimum Width at     Minimum Net Site   Required Lot Area
                    Front Building Line  Area (square feet) (square feet)
                    (feet)
If served by
individual well and 100                  43,560             38,000
septic tank
If served by public
or other approved   100                  21,780             38,000
community sewer
system
If served by public
or other approved   100                  21,780             38,000
community sewer and
water system
 
      (2)   Front yard. Same as required in A zone, §
157.065(C)(2).
      (3)   Side yard. Each lot, except as otherwise specified, shall have two
side yards either having a width of not less than 10% of the width of the lot;
the aggregate width of both side yards on any lot shall be not less than 25% of
the width of the lot.
      (4)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25% of the
depth of the lot.
      (5)   Lot coverage. Not more than 35% of the area of the lot may be
covered by buildings or structures.
      (6)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
   (D)   Building size. No building shall be erected for residential purposes
having a floor area of less than 760 square feet, exclusive of unenclosed
porches, terraces and garages.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2016-12, passed 11-1-2016)
§ 157.076 R2 MULTI-FAMILY ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the R2 multi-family zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   (a)   Shall be shown in Appendix A of this chapter, official
Schedule of Uses, and the following:
         (b)   Name plate or advertising devices, provided that they shall be
erected in accordance with the provisions of §
157.135 through
157.137.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height. Maximum height of dwellings shall be two stories,
not to exceed 35 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Lot area and yards.
      (1)   Lot area per dwelling unit for multi-family structures. The
required lot area per dwelling unit shall be as prescribed in §
157.065(C)(1) for the first two units. For every structure exceeding two
dwelling units there shall be provided a minimum of 4,500 square feet of
required lot area per each additional dwelling unit.
      (2)   Lot area for one-family. Every lot used for one-family purposes
shall have a minimum lot area as prescribed in §
157.075(C)(1).
      (3)   Front yard. Same as required in A zone, §
157.065(C).
      (4)   Side yards. Each lot, except as otherwise specified, shall have two
side yards either having a width of not less than six feet; the aggregate width
of both side yards on any lot shall be not less than 20% of the width of the
lot.
      (5)   Rear yard. Same as required in R1 zone, §
157.075(C)(4).
      (6)   Lot coverage. Same as required in R1 zone, §
157.075(C)(5).
      (7)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
   (D)   Building size. Same as required in A zone, §
157.065(D).
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
BUSINESS ZONE REGULATIONS
§ 157.090 B1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the B1 Neighborhood Business Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Shall be as shown in
Appendix A of this chapter, official Schedule of Uses, including the following:
      (1)   Automobile service stations. Automobile service stations shall be
permitted in accordance with Chapter 11 of “Rules and Regulations of the State
Fire Marshall Regulating the Use, Handling, Storage and Sale of Flammable
Liquids in the State of Indiana”, provided that any tire or tube repairing,
battery charging and storing of merchandise or supplies are conducted wholly
within a building. Plans for the erection or structural alteration of an
automobile service station shall be approved by the Commission. The Commission
may require such change therein in relation to yards, location of pumps and
buildings and construction of buildings as it may deem best suited to insure
safety, to minimize traffic difficulties and to safeguard adjacent properties.
      (2)   Advertising devices. Advertising devices shall be permitted
provided that they shall be erected in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.135 through
157.137.
      (3)   Incidental uses. Uses customarily incidental to any of the above
uses and accessory buildings shall be permitted when located on the same lot.
      (4)   Public parking areas. Public parking areas shall be permitted for
the exclusive use of the patrons of the stores, shops or businesses in the
immediate business zone when located and developed as required in this chapter.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height. Maximum height of structures shall be three
stories.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. Same as required in A zone.
      (2)   Side yards. Where the side of a lot in the B zone abuts upon the
side of a lot in an R zone, there shall be a side yard of not less than four
feet for each story of height; but such side yard shall not be less than six
feet in width. In all other cases, a side yard for a business building shall
not be required; but if provided, it shall not be less than four feet in width.
      (3)   Rear yard. Where the B zone abuts an R zone, there shall be a rear
yard of not less than 20% of the depth of the lot; but such rear yard need not
exceed 20 feet. In all other cases no rear yard shall be required; but if
provided, it shall not be less than four feet in depth.
      (4)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.091 B2 RURAL BUSINESS ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the B2 Rural Business Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Shall be as shown in Appendix A of this chapter, official Schedule
of Uses, including the following:
      (2)   (a)   Any use shown in Appendix A of this chapter, official
Schedule of uses, that is not also allowed in the B1 Neighborhood Business
Zone, shall also meet the following standards:
         (b)   The use shall be within 150 feet of a lot of a more restrictive
zone. The use shall be conducted wholly within the building or within an area
screened on all sides by a masonry wall, compact evergreen planting, or
uniformly painted ornamental wood fence not less than six feet in height shall
be maintained between such use and adjoining residential zones except for off-
street loading and delivery vehicles which are incidental thereto as required
in this chapter.
      (3)   Auction hall, amusement enterprise, including billiard or pool
hall, bowling alley, boxing arena, dance hall, games of skill or science, penny
arcade, shooting gallery, and the like if the nearest point of the structure is
not less than 200 feet from any R zone.
      (4)   Drive-in business. Where persons are served in automobiles from a
refreshment stand, restaurant, food store and the like, provided the area is
screened by a masonry wall, compact evergreen planting or uniformly painted
wood fence not less than six feet in height which is erected and maintained
between such uses and any adjoining R zone or residential development.
      (5)   Advertising devices shall be permitted provided that they shall be
erected in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.135 through
157.137.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height. The maximum height of structures shall be the same
as required in B1 zone.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. Same as required in A zone, §
157.065(C).
      (2)   Side yards. Same as required in B1 zone, §
157.090(C)(3).
      (3)   Rear yard. Same as required in B1 zone, §
157.090(C)(3).
      (4)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.092 B3 GENERAL BUSINESS ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the B3 General Business Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Shall be as shown on
Appendix A of this chapter, official Schedule of Uses, including the following:
      (2)   The following uses or uses of a similar type provided that, where
they are within 150 feet of a lot in a more restricted zone they shall be
conducted wholly within a building; except for the off-street loading of
delivery vehicles which are incidental thereto as required in §
157.008:
         (a)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing or sheet metal fabricating shops,
but excluding manufacture.
         (b)   Ice manufacture or cold storage.
         (c)   Warehousing.
         (d)   Wholesale merchandise storage.
         (e)   Any use permitted in B1 zone provided that not more than 10% of
the rentable floor area of any floor of a building is devoted to such use. In
determining the floor area so used, it shall be all the rentable floor area
occupied by concerns engaged in such production activities exclusive of that
used for offices, display, waiting rooms, or clerical work.
         (f)   Pawnshops.
         (g)   Rescue or temporary revival mission.
         (h)   Trade or business school or private school operated as
commercial enterprise.
      (3)   The following uses or uses of a similar type provided they are
wholly within a building except for off-street loading of delivery vehicles
which are incidental thereto as required in §
157.008:
         (a)   Art or antique shop.
         (b)   Second hand store.
         (c)   Upholstering shop.
      (4)   The following uses or uses of a similar type provided that, where
they are within 150 feet of a lot in a more restricted zone they shall be
conducted wholly within a building or within an area enclosed on all sides with
a solid wall, compact evergreen screen or uniformly painted board fence, not
less than four feet in height; except for the off-street loading of delivery
vehicles which are incidental thereto as required in §
157.008:
         (a)   Building material sales yard, including the sale of lumber,
rock, sand and gravel, but excluding concrete and asphaltic concrete mixing.
         (b)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard of plant or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors.
         (c)   Draying, freighting, or trucking yard or terminal.
         (d)   Feed or fuel yard.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height. Maximum height of structures shall not exceed 45
feet.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. Same as required in A zone, §
157.065(C)(2).
      (2)   Side yards. Same as required in B1 zone, §
157.090(C)(2).
      (3)   Rear yard. Same as required in B1 zone, §
157.090(C)(3).
      (4)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
INDUSTRIAL ZONE REGULATIONS
§ 157.105 I1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply to the I1 Light Industrial Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Shall be as shown in Appendix A in this chapter, official Schedule
of Uses, including:
      (2)   The following uses or uses of a similar type, provided that, when
they are within 100 feet of a lot in a more restrictive zone they shall be
conducted wholly within a building, except for off-street loading of delivery
vehicles as required in §
157.008.
         (a)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or
treatment of food products excepting fish and meat products, sauerkraut,
vinegar, yeast, and the rendering or refining of fats and oils.
         (b)   The manufacture of pottery or figurines or any other similar
ceramic products, using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas.
         (c)   Automobile assembly, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, truck repair or overhauling, tire retreading or recapping, and
battery manufacturing.
         (d)   Blacksmith shops, the manufacturing of machine tools,
manufacturing of machinery, including agricultural, electrical machinery or
equipment, office or store machines, equipment or supplies and the like,
machine shops.
         (e)   Foundries, casting light weight, non-ferrous metals not causing
noxious fumes or odors.
         (f)   Animal hospitals or kennels.
         (g)   Chick hatcheries.
         (h)   Underground storage of fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas and
gasoline in amounts not to exceed 120,000 gallon capacity.
      (3)   The following uses or uses of a similar type, provided the
operations are carried on completely within the buildings or an area enclosed
with dense screen plantings or a six foot, solid fence.
         (a)   Auto wrecking.
         (b)   Bleaching or dyeing.
         (c)   Body or fender works.
         (d)   Breweries or liquor distilleries.
         (e)   Stone cutting.
         (f)   Storage, sorting, collection, or baling of rags, paper, metal,
or junk.
      (4)   Advertising devices shall be permitted provided they shall be
erected in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.135 through
157.137.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height. The maximum height of structures shall be the same
as required in B3 Zone §
157.092, provided that no building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained to exceed the
height requirements of an adjacent R zone when such building or structure is
within 150 feet of said adjacent R zone.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to height regulations are provided for in §
157.120.
   (C)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard. Same as required in §
157.065(C)(2).
      (2)   Side yards. Same as required in §
157.090(C)(2).
      (3)   Rear yard. Same as required in §
157.090(C)(3).
      (4)   Exceptions. Exceptions to yard regulations are provided for in §
157.121.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2003-16, passed 8-4-2003)
§ 157.106 I2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   The following regulations and the regulations contained in §§
157.003 through
157.017 shall apply in the I2 Zone.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As shown in Appendix A of this chapter, official
Schedule of Uses or uses of a similar type, provided where they are within 150
feet of a residential zone or area or business zone they shall be contained
wholly within a building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid
wall, compact evergreen screen or uniformly painted board or metal fence which
shall not allow any stored material to be viewed from the opposite side of any
immediately adjacent street by a line of sight, the origin of which shall not
be less than six feet; except for the off-street parking and loading of
delivery vehicles which are incidental thereto as required in §
157.008. Any use allowed in I1 Zone, §
157.105(A)(2)(b),(c) and (4) may be permitted.
   (B)   Height, yard, and area regulations. Same as I1, §
157.105, divisions (A)(2) and (3).
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2003-16, passed 8-4-2003)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 157.120 HEIGHT.
   (A)   Three-story buildings in two-story zones. In the zones limiting height
to two stories not to exceed 35 feet, any permitted structure may be increased
in height to three stories not to exceed 45 feet, provided the required side
yards are increased an additional one foot for each three feet such structure
exceeds 25 feet.
   (B)   Through lots (150 feet or less in depth). On through lots 150 feet or
less in depth, the height of a building may be measured from the adjoining curb
level on either street.
   (C)   Through lots (more than 150 feet in depth). On through lots more than
150 feet in depth, the height regulations and basis of height measurements for
the street permitting the greater height shall apply to a depth of not more
than 150 from that street.
   (D)   Structures permitted above height limit. Penthouses or roof structures
for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar
equipment required to operate and maintain the building, fire or parapet walls,
skylights, television aerials, steeples, roof signs, flagpoles, chimneys,
smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks, grain elevators, silos, gas
containers, material hoppers, or similar structures may be erected above the
height limits herein prescribed; but no penthouse or roof structure or any
space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing
additional floor space for residential, business or industrial use.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.121 AREA AND YARDS.
   (A)   Yard regulations modified. Where the yard regulations cannot
reasonably be complied with or their application determined on lots of peculiar
shape, location or topography, such regulations may be modified or determined
by the Board, as provided for in §
157.166.
   (B)   Front yard (between projecting buildings). Where a lot is situated
between two lots, each of which has a main building which projects beyond the
ordinance established front yard line and was so maintained when this chapter
became effective, the front yard requirement on such lot may be the average of
the front yards of said existing buildings, provided, however, the front yard
of such lot shall not be less than ten feet.
   (C)   Front yard (adjoining projecting building). Where a lot adjoins only
one lot having a main building which projects beyond the ordinance established
front yard line and has been so maintained since this chapter became effective,
the front yard requirement on such lot may be the average of the front yard of
the existing building and the established front yard line, provided, however,
the front yard of such lot shall be not less than ten feet.
   (D)   Side yards waived. For the purpose of side yard regulations, the
following dwellings with common party walls shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot: semi-detached dwellings, row dwellings, and group dwellings.
   (E)   Front and side yards waived. The front and side yards may be waived
for dwellings, hotels, and lodging houses erected above the ground floor of a
building when said ground floor is designed and used exclusively for business
and/or industrial purposes.
   (F)   Rear yard accessory building. An accessory building, not exceeding 20
feet in height may occupy not more than 30% of the area of a required rear yard
providing it is no less than ten feet from any side or rear lot line.
   (G)   Through lot may be considered as two lots. Where a through lot has a
depth of 200 feet or more, and an area of 20,000 square feet or more, said lot
may be assumed to be two lots with the rear line of each approximately
equidistant from the front lot lines, provided all area requirements are
complied with.
   (H)   Projection into yards.
      (1)   Porte cochère. A porte cochère may be permitted over a driveway in
a side yard, provided such structure is not more than one story in height and
20 feet in length, and is entirely open on at least the front and rear sides,
except for the necessary supporting columns and customary architectural
features provided, however, such porte cochere does not extend to within six
feet of a side lot line.
      (2)   Cornice, sill or chimney. A cornice, eave bolt course, sill, canopy
or other similar architectural feature (not including bay window or other
vertical projection) may extend or project into a required front, side or rear
yard not more than two feet, provided the width of such side yard is not
reduced to less than three feet.
      (3)   Fire escape. A fire escape may extend or project into any required
front, side or rear yard not more than four feet.
      (4)   Open stairway and balcony. An open, unenclosed stairway or balcony,
not covered by a roof or canopy, may extend or project into a required rear
yard, and such balcony may extend into a required front yard not more than 30
inches.
      (5)   Open porch. An open, unenclosed porch, platform or land place not
covered by a roof or canopy, which does not extend above the level of the first
floor of the building, may extend or project into any required side yard not
more than four feet and into any required front or rear yard not more than
eight feet.
      (6)   Fence or wall. A fence, lattice-work screen or wall in connection
with residential use, not more than six feet in height, but not to extend into
the required front yard, or a hedge or thick growth of shrubs, maintained so as
not to exceed four feet in height may be located in any required front or side
yard except for corner setbacks as required in §
157.009.
      (7)   Landscape feature. A landscape feature, such as trees, shrubs,
flowers or plants, shall be permitted in any required front, side or rear yard,
provided it does not violate the provisions of §
157.009.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
ADVERTISING DEVICES
§ 157.135 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   After the enactment of this chapter it shall be deemed unlawful to erect,
place, attach or structurally alter any advertising device in Spencer County,
Indiana, unless and until an improvement location permit has been issued. Upon
the issuance of said permit the advertising company or its agent may erect,
place, attach or structurally alter said advertising device only if the device
shall be in conformity with all sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.136 EXCEPTIONS TO IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   A name plate not exceeding one square foot, house or address notations, a
device pertaining to the sale of the property on which it is located and not
exceeding 12 square feet.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 157.137 AREA AND LOCATION.
   Yard restrictions set out in other sections of this chapter do not apply to
advertising devices except where direct reference is made to said devices; the
restrictions as set forth in this subchapter shall apply in all other cases.
The size and location of all advertising devices shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   Churches, schools and institutions. All churches, public or parochial,
primary, or secondary schools, and all institutions shall be limited to one
free, standing, advertising device not to exceed 24 square feet. In the event
the church, school, or institution faces more than one street, one advertising
device per street may be permitted on the building’s site. All such devices
shall be located not less than 15 feet behind the front or side lot line,
except where affixed to the wall of the building and not extending over the
sidewalk.
   (B)   A, R-1 and R-2 Zone. The following regulations pertain to advertising
devices permitted in the A, R-1 and R-2 zones; for additional regulations in
the A Zone see §
157.137(D).
      (1)   Name plate or sign. One per dwelling unit, not exceeding one square
foot in area.
      (2)   Home occupation. Unlighted, not to exceed two square feet in area.
The required front setback shall be not less than 15 feet from the front or
side property lines.
      (3)   Temporary. One per lot or use, not to exceed 12 square feet in
area, pertaining to sale or rental of property on which it is located; or
giving names of contractors, engineers and/or architects during a construction
period. The required front setback shall be not less than 15 feet from the
front and/or side property lines.
      (4)   Temporary. One sign, not to exceed 128 square feet in area and no
single dimension to exceed 16 feet, advertising the sale of lots within the
subdivision and located within the subdivision and located thereon, providing
that not more than one such sign be located at each major approach to the
subdivision. The setback from the front or side lot line shall be equal to one
half the required front building setback as specified for the zone in which it
is situated. Said sign shall be removed by the developer or his or her agent,
upon the completion or the sale of 90% of the lots in the subdivision.
      (5)   Permanent. One identification device not exceeding 20 square feet
in area for multiple dwellings, provided that such device shall be located not
less than 15 feet from the front and or side property lines, except where it is
affixed to the wall of the building and does not extend over the sidewalk.
      (6)   All advertising devices, except as mentioned in divisions (A) and
(B) of this section and official signs of government agencies, are prohibited
in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
   (C)   B1, B2, B3, I1 and I2 Zone. In any B1, B2, B3, I1, and I2 zone, an
advertising device may be permitted provided that when same is located within
75 feet of an R zone or residentially used area boundary line, it shall be
affixed to or be a part of a building, and not to extend over any street line
nor project above the roof line and shall pertain only to a use conducted
within the building. The size shall be limited to three square feet of area to
each lineal front foot of the building displaying such device.
      (1)   No free standing device shall have an advertising area exceeding
320 square feet in area.
      (2)   No flashing advertising device shall be located within 300 feet of
any residentially zoned or developed area.
      (3)   Yard restrictions shall be as required in the zone in which the
device is located.
   (D)   In any A or F2 Zone.
      (1)   Advertising devices pertaining to a home occupation or sale of farm
produce not to exceed 12 square feet and limited to advertising items crafted
or grown on the premises and located not more than 500 feet from the actual
premises on which the product is being sold.
      (2)   Free, standing, non-accessory advertising device, that is, any
device advertising a business, use, activity, product or merchandise not sold,
handled or occurring on the property on which the device is located shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   Such advertising device shall be in conformity with the front
yard requirements as specified in §
157.065(C)(2).
         (b)   Said device shall be a minimum of 300 feet from a line projected
perpendicular across the highway from a dwelling, church, school, or public
institution.
         (c)   Said device shall be a minimum of 400 feet from any dwelling or
land platted, divided, or zoned from residential use, school, church, park, or
place of public assembly.
         (d)   Said device shall be a minimum of 100 feet from a side property
line, when such property line is a division line of property ownership.
         (e)   Said device shall be a minimum of 200 feet from a railroad or a
crossroad intersection, a “T” road or highway entrance, a bridge or a stretch
of highway that is specified as being hazardous by the state or county, a turn
in the highway or an entering lane or road, and the curve of a curved highway.
   (E)   General provisions for all advertising devices.
      (1)   All devices, either of a temporary or permanent nature, shall be
constructed or maintained in a presentable manner for the life of the device.
      (2)   Any nonconforming device that is or becomes in a run-down or
objectionable condition shall be removed from the premises by the owner of said
device. Said condition shall exist and when the device is determined to be in
excess of 30% destroyed by acts of God or man. Said determination shall be made
by the Commissioners and the Commission.
      (3)   Any nonconforming advertising device not attached to a building,
lawfully existing upon the effective date of this chapter shall be discontinued
on or before ten years after the effective date of this chapter unless a
discontinuance date has been established by a prior zoning ordinance in which
case such prior date of discontinuance shall apply, unless in the meantime it
is determined or made conforming with this section.
      (4)   Advertising devices may not contain more than one sign per facing,
nor more than two sides per said device.
      (5)   All new devices (except those referred to in division (E)(9) of
this section) in excess of 20 square feet and not an integral part of another
structure shall require an improvement location permit.
      (6)   Any device that is deemed a traffic hazard for reason of
obstructing the view of an approaching road or intersection, railroad, school
playground or park pedestrian crosswalk or any other situation that may
endanger health and welfare of any pedestrian or occupant of any vehicle shall
be prohibited.
      (7)   Said device shall be a minimum of 1,320 feet from another
advertising device located on the same side of a two-lane state, federal or
county highway. Where located in a commercial zone, there shall be a separation
requirement of 200 feet. Where located in an industrial zone there shall be a
separation requirement of 100 feet.
      (8)   For the purposes of division (E)(7) first above, a series of one to
six signs, each having an area of no greater than six square feet and spaced at
least 100 feet apart, which are designed to be read in sequence to convey a
single message, shall be considered as one advertising device.
      (9)   The following signs shall be excluded from the provisions of this
chapter:
         (a)   All signs necessary for convenience and safety established by
the federal, state, and/or county highway departments.
         (b)   A notice of change of zoning as established by the Commission.
         (c)   Only those devices of a temporary nature, advertising or giving
directions to an official, special event, all such devices shall be removed
within 24 hours after they become no longer applicable.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-18-2009; Ord. 2009-07, passed
12-29-2009; Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-3-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.150 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   No building or structure, except buildings incidental to agricultural
operations, shall be erected, reconstructed, enlarged or moved, nor shall any
other development commence or change in land use occur until an improvement
location permit shall have been applied for in writing and issued by the Zoning
Administrator. A fee according to the approval fee schedule, shall be paid when
making application for an improvement location permit. Said permit shall be
posted in a prominent place on the premises prior to and during the period of
erection, reconstruction, enlargement or moving. Before a permit is issued for
the erection, moving, alteration. enlargement or occupancy of any building or
structure or use of premises, the plans and intended use shall indicate
conformity in all respects to the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   No improvement location permit shall be issued prior to approval of
any necessary onsite waste disposal system by the Spencer County Board of
Health. The applicant shall be required to present this approval to the Zoning
Administrator upon application for the improvement location permit.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be placed in the F2, FW or FF Zone, either on an
individual private building lot, or upon a lot or space in an existing or new
mobile home park, until an improvement location permit shall have been applied
for in writing and issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Site plan. Every application for an improvement location permit
submitted to the Zoning Administrator shall be accompanied by a site plan,
drawn to scale, showing the lot and the building site and the location of
existing buildings on the lot, accurate dimensions of the lot, yards and
building or buildings, together with locations, size and use of any land and
all buildings not only on the lot but within 50 feet from the boundaries
thereof, unless separated there from by a street, together with such other
information as may be necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Interpretation of chapter. In interpreting and applying the provisions
of this chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of health, safety, morals, convenience or the general welfare. The
lot or yard areas required by this chapter for a particular building shall not
be diminished (other than by the Board of Zoning Appeals), and shall not be
included as part of the required lot or yard areas of any other building. The
lot or yard areas of buildings existing at the time this chapter became
effective shall not be diminished below the requirements herein provided for
buildings hereafter erected and such required areas shall not be included as a
part of the required areas of any building hereafter erected.
   (E)   Completion of existing buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall
require any change in the plans, construction or intended use of a building,
the construction of which has been diligently prosecuted, at least two years
from the date this chapter became effective. Nothing herein shall prevent the
reconstruction of a wall or other structural part of a building declared unsafe
by the State Fire Marshal or the Administrative Building Council of the State
of Indiana.
   (F)   No improvement location permit for erection of any building shall be
issued before application has been made for a certificate of occupancy. The
improvement location permit may be revoked by the Zoning Administrator if the
work contemplated is not in progress within 90 days of the date of the permit.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-1-2017)
§ 157.151 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce the
provisions of this chapter in the manner and form and with the powers provided
in the laws of the State of Indiana and in the ordinances of the county.
   (B)   All departments, officials, and public employees of the county which
are vested with the duty of authority to issue permits shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit for any use, building or
purpose if the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 157.165 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals for the county is hereby established in
accordance with Chapter 174, Acts of 1947, General Assembly, State of Indiana,
as amended.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Spencer to the
following terms: one for a term of one year; one for two years; one for a term
of three years; and two for a term of four years. These terms of office shall
expire on the first day of January. As these initial terms of office expire,
the Board of Commissioners of the County of Spencer shall appoint persons to a
term of four years. The Board of Commissioners of the County of Spencer is
empowered to fill vacancies on the Board by appointing a member for the
duration of the unexpired term. The Board of Zoning Appeals may not take any
action unless this action is authorized by a quorum, which is defined as a
majority of the members of the Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals is authorized
to entertain appeals from any action taken by the zoning enforcement officer to
carry out the provisions of the zoning ordinance; permit exceptions to the zone
district regulations only as provided for in the zoning ordinance; decide upon
special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance in those cases where the Board
is specifically asked to act under the terms of the zoning ordinance; and grant
upon appeal in certain cases a variance from the terms of the zoning ordinances
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where a
literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would result in unnecessary
hardship, so long as the intent of the ordinance shall not be violated.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at
such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his or her
absence, the Acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. Petitions addressed to the Board shall, prior to public hearing, be
referred to the Commission for written recommendation thereon. If the
Commission shall fail to act within 31 days, it shall be deemed to approve such
petitions. Prior to decision on such petitions, the Board shall hold a public
hearing thereon, notice of which shall be mailed to the petitioner and to the
owners of all property deemed by the Board to be affected thereby as they
appear in the current records of the County Auditor and also advertised ten
days prior to the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation,
published in the county. The cost of notifying affected property owners and the
cost of advertising the notice of the public hearing shall be borne by the
petitioner by the filing fee.
   (D)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the enforcement
officer or other duly authorized administrative officer, and the concurring
vote of three members of the Board shall be required to pass under this chapter
or to affect any variation in the application of this chapter.
   (E)   The Board shall cause to be made a detailed report of all its
proceedings, setting forth its reasons for its decisions. Such record,
immediately following the Board’s decision shall be filed in the offices of the
Board and of the Commission, and shall be open to public inspection. Notice of
such decision shall be mailed forthwith to each party in interest as aforesaid.
   (F)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision
of the Board may proceed in the manner prescribed in Section 82, Chapter 174,
Acts of 1947, General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.166 POWERS OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the powers provided in Chapter 174 of
the Acts of 1947, General Assembly, State of Indiana, as amended. In the
exercise of these powers and the responsibilities assigned to it by this
chapter, it may impose such conditions regarding the location, character and
other features of the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem
advisable in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter. It shall not,
however, permit any use in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER AND MAP
§ 157.180 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries provided for in this
chapter may from time to time be amended or repealed.
   (B)   This chapter may from time to time be amended as provided in Chapter
174 of the Acts of 1947.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.181 FILING FEES.
   Any petition to the Board for a special exception or variance and any
petition to the Board of County Commissioners for an amendment to this chapter
except when initiated by the Commission, shall be accompanied by a filing fee
which shall be deposited with the County Treasurer and no part of which shall
be returnable to the petitioner.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 and not
more than $300, for each offense, such fine to inure to the county. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   The erection, construction, enlargement, conversion, moving, or
maintenance of any building or structure and the use of any land or building
which is continued, operated or maintained, contrary to the provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a violation of this chapter and unlawful. The
Advisory Plan Commission Attorney or the County Attorney shall, immediately
upon any such violation having been called to his attention, institute
injunction, abatement, or any other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin,
abate or remove such violation. Such action may also be instituted by any
property owner who may be especially damaged by any violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The remedy provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive
and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (D)   In addition to the foregoing, every person or entity found to be in
violation of any regulation in or any provision of this chapter, as amended
from time to time, or any regulation enacted thereunder, shall also be held
responsible for the reasonable costs of enforcement thereof, including attorney
fees, other personnel costs, and court cost, in any action taken to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Any action permitted to be commenced under this section against any
owner and/or possessor of real estate, may also be brought against the owner of
any personal property who has furnished that property or permitted it to be
placed on real estate in a manner which results in any violation of this
chapter, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000; Ord. 2007-10, passed 8-21-2007)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF USES
Table 1
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF USES
 
Key:      •   Permitted Uses      [ ]   Special Exception
Property Use                     F2 A   R1  R2  B1  B2  B3  B-  B-  B-  I1  I2
                                                            P1  P2  P3
Accessory buildings                 • • •
Accounting office                           [ ] • • •             •
Acetylene gas manufacture or                                                •
storage
Adult organizations              [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Agriculture                      •• • •                             •
Agriculture implements                          •
Alcohol manufacture                                                         •
Ammonia or bleaching powder                                                 •
manufacture
Amusement enterprise                                • •             •
Animal hospitals                 [  [ ]                             • •
                                 ]
Antique shop                        [ ]         • • •             •
Arcade                                              • •             •
Art shop                                                •
Artists’ studios                                          • • •
Auction hall                                        • •             •
Automobile dealerships and                          • •     • • •
repair
Automobile manufacturing                                                •
Auto wrecking                                                           •
Bakery                                          • • • • • • •
Ball fields                      [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Bank                                            • • • • • • •
Barber shop                                     • • • • • • •
Bars/cocktail lounges                                           • •
Battery station                                                     •
Beauty parlor                                   • • • • • • •
Billiards/pool hall                                 • •     • • •
Blacksmith shop                                                         •
Bleaching or dyeing                                                     •
Boarding house                   [  [ ]
                                 ]
Body shops                                                              •
Boilerworks                                                                 •
Bookstore or stationary store                   • • • • • • •
Bottling works                                      • •             •
Bowling alley                                       • •     • • •
Boxing arena                                        • •             •
Breweries                                                               •
Brick, tile, terra cotta, or                                                •
cinder block manufacturing
Building materials sales yard                       • •             •
Bus stations                                                    • •
Business office                                 • • • • • • •
Business school                                         •     • •
Cabinet shop                                            •
Café                                           • • • • • • •
Carbon manufacturing                                                        •
Carpenter                                               •
Campgrounds                      [  [ ]     [ ]     [ ] [ ]             [ ]
                                 ]
Central station light                                                       •
Chick hatcheries                                                        •
Child care/nursery school           [ ] [ ] [ ]                 • •
Cleaners                                            • • • • • •
Clothing store                                  • • • • • • •
Clubs                            [  [ ] [ ] [ ] • • • • • • • [ ]
                                 ]
Coal distillation                                                           •
Coke oven                                                                   •
Cold storage                                            •
Collection/recycling stations                                           •
Community center                        • •
Confectionary store                             • • • • • • •
Contractor’s equipment storage                        •
yard
Creamery                                            • •             •
Creosote manufacture or                                                     •
treatment
Crop production                  •• • •
Custom dressmaking or millinery                 • • • • • • •
shop
Dance hall                                          • •             •
Dancing schools                                             • • •
Delicatessen                                    • • • • • • •
Dental clinic                                   • • • • • • •
Dentist office                              [ ]
Department store                                • • • • • • •
Diaper service                                                      •
Doctor office                               [ ]
Drive-in business                                   • •     • • •
Drive-in movies                                     • •             •
Driving ranges                   •• • •
Drug store                                      • • • • • • •
Dumps                               [ ]                                     [ ]
Electric appliance store                        • • • • • • •
Equipment rental                                    • •             •
Farm equipment storage yard                         • •             •
Farming (general)                •• • •
Feed sales                                          • •             •
Feed yard                                               •
Fishing ponds                    [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Florist                                         • • • • • • •
Florist (wholesale)                                 • •             •
Food processing                                                         •
Forestry                         •• • •
Foundries                                                               •
Fraternal organizations          [  [ ] [ ] [ ] • • • • • • • [ ]
                                 ]
Frozen food lockers                                             • •
Fruit store                                     • • • • • • •
Fuel yard                                               •
Funeral parlor                                      • •             •
Furniture manufacture                                                       •
Furniture store                                 • • • • • • •
Games of skill                                      • •             •
Garages (auto storage)                                      • • •
Garbage feeding or disposal                                                 •
Gas manufacture from coal and                                               •
storage
Gift store                                      • • • • • • •
Greenhouses                      [  [ ]     [ ] • • • • • • •
                                 ]
Grocery store                                   • • • • • • •
Golf courses                     •• • •
Hardware store                                  • • • • • • •
Hotels                           [  [ ]
                                 ]
Housing
   One-family detached           • • •
   Two-family dwelling           •     •
   Row or multiple dwellings             •
Ice cream manufacture                               • •             •
Ice manufacture                                         •
Incinerator, industrially                                                   •
affiliated
Incinerators                        [ ]                                     [ ]
Institutional (including
hospitals, asylums, nursing         [ ]     [ ]
homes, and the like)
Jewelry store                                   • • • • • • •
Junkyard/salvage yard                                                   •
Kennels                          [  [ ]                                 •
                                 ]
Laboratory                                      • • • • • • •
Laundry                                         • •     • • •
Laundries (auto)                                            • •
Law office                                  [ ]
Loan and finance companies                                      • •
Lodges                           [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Lodging house                               [ ]
Lumber yard                                         • •             •
Machine shops                                                           •
Meat market                                     • • • • • • •
Meat products manufacture                                                   •
Medical clinic                                  • • • • • • •
Miniature golf course                                               •
Mobile home parks                   [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
Motel                                               • •         • •
Music store                                     • • • • • • •
Nature preserves                 •• • •
Newsstand                                       • • • • • • •
Non-commercial institutions         •
Office buildings                                                • •
Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture                                        •
Orchards                         •• • •
Paint manufacture                                                           •
Parks                            •• • •
Parking stations for trucks                                         •
Parking stations for buses                                          •
Pasture                          •• • •
Passenger stations                                          • • •
Pawnshop                                                •
Pet shop                                            • •     • • •
Photographer                                    • • • • • • •
Picnic groves                    [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Planning mill                                                               •
Plant nurseries                  •• • • • • • • • • •
Plastic manufacture                                                         •
Plumbing shops                                              • • •
Pony rings                                                      • •
Pottery/clay manufacturing                                              •
Poultry killing/sales                               • •             •
Power forge                                                                 •
Power plant                                                                 •
Printing shop                                       • •             •
Private recreational (allowing   [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
alcohol)                         ]
Private recreational (no         [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
alcohol)                         ]
Private school (commercial)                             •
Professional office                         [ ] • • • • • • •
Public parking lots                                         • • •
Pyroxylin manufacture                                                       •
Rabbit killing/sales                                • •             •
Radio store                                     • • • • • • •
Railroad car manufacturing                                                  •
Railroad yard                                                               •
Realtor’s office                          [ ]
Repair shop (small appliance and                • • •             •
equipment)
Rescue or temporary revival                             •
mission
Restaurant                                      • • •             •
Rubber manufacture or treatment                                             •
Sanitary landfills                  [ ]                                     [ ]
Sawmills                         [  [ ]
                                 ]
Second-hand store                                       •
Service stations (auto)                         • • • • • • •
Sheet metal shops                                                   •
Shoe store and shoe repair                      • • • • • • •
Shooting gallery                                    • •             •
Sign painting                                   • • • • • • •
Soap manufacture                                                            •
Stables (private)                   •
Stadium                                             • •             •
Stove or shoe polish manufacture                                            •
Swimming pools (public)          [  • [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
Tailor                                          • • • • • • •
Tanning, curing, storage of                                                 •
rawhides
Tar distillation                                                            •
Tar products manufacture                                                    •
Taxidermy                                                           •
Tea room                                        • • • • • • •
Telephone exchanges                                             • •
Tire store                                      • • • • • • •
Theater (indoor)                                • • • • • • •
Tourist cottage                             [ ]
Tourist home                        [ ]     [ ]
Trade school                                            •
Transfer and storage offices                                        •
Trucking operations (ag.            [ ]
products)
Trucking yard and terminal
(includes draying and                               • •             •
freighting)
Underground bulk storage (fuel                      • •             •
oil, gas)
Upholstering Shop                                       •
Variety store                                   • • • • • • •
Vegetable store/stand                           • • • • • • •
Vineyards                        •• • •
Wildlife areas                   •• • •
Wholesaling                                             •     • •
Wholesale merchandise storage                           •
Youth camps                      [  [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
                                 ]
 
(Ord. passed 3-14-2000)
CHAPTER 158: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
158.01   Intent
   
158.02   Applicability
   
158.03   Prohibition
   
158.04   Conflict with other regulations
   
158.05   District regulations
   
158.06   Safety design and installation standards
   
158.07   Other applicable standards
   
158.08   Operation and maintenance
   
158.09   Decommissioning plan
   
158.10   Liability insurance
   
158.11   Application procedures
   
158.12   Pre-construction requirements
   
158.13   Construction requirements
   
158.14   Post-construction requirements
   
158.15   Setback requirements
§ 158.01 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the wind energy conversion systems (WECS) siting
regulations to provide a regulatory scheme for the construction and operation
of WECS in the county; subject to reasonable restrictions.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to preserve the health and safety of
the public.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to those areas which
allow wind energy conversion systems (WECS), govern the siting of WECS and
substations that generate electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail
markets, or that generate electricity for private use.
   (B)   A reasonable attempt shall be made to notify all property owners
within the defined area of the WECS project prior to making application for a
WECS permit. Notification may be done by media, separate mailings, or through
the public notice requirements prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1 as amended from time to
time. Said notice shall inform land owners of the intent to build a commercial
WECS and/or wind farm.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.03 PROHIBITION.
   No applicant shall construct, operate, or locate a wind energy conversion
system (WECS) within the county without having fully complied with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 158.04 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to preempt other applicable state
and federal laws or regulations, including compliance with all Federal Aviation
Administration rules and regulations and shall comply with the notification
requirements of the FAA. Nor are they intended to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, statute or other provision of
law.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or
provision of law, the provisions that are more restrictive or that imposes
higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.05 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Location. Commercial, non-commercial, and micro-WECS will be
permitted, or not permitted, in various districts as prescribed by the Official
Schedule of Uses in Ch. 157, Appendix A.
   (B)    Height.
      (1)   Any non-commercial WECS or meteorological tower greater than 200
feet in height shall require a special exception use permit.
      (2)   For commercial WECS, there is no limitation on height, except those
height limitations imposed by FAA rules and regulations. No micro-WECS shall
exceed 60 feet in height.
   (C)   Horizontal extension. The furthest horizontal extension of a WECS
(including guy wires) shall not extend into a required setback by the zoning
district or be closer than 12 feet to any primary structure, or right-of-way
easement for any above-ground telephone, electrical transmission or
distribution lines.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.06 SAFETY DESIGN AND INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Equipment type.
      (1)   Turbines. All turbines shall be constructed of commercially
available equipment.
      (2)   Meteorological towers. Meteorological towers may be guyed.
      (3)   Experimental or proto-type equipment. Experimental or proto-type
equipment still in testing which does not fully comply with industry standards,
may be approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals per the variance process
established by this chapter.
   (B)   Industry standards and other regulations. All WECS shall conform to
applicable industry standards, as well as all local, state and federal
regulations. An applicant shall submit certificate(s) of design compliance that
wind turbine manufacturers have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories, Del
Norske Veritas, Germanishcher Lloyed Wind Energia, or an equivalent third
party.
   (C)   Controls and brakes.
      (1)   Braking system. All WECS shall be equipped with a redundant braking
system. This includes both aerodynamic over speed controls (including variable
pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes. Stall regulation
shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for over speed protection.
      (2)   Operation mode. All mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-
safe mode.
   (D)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Standards. All electrical components of all WECS shall conform to
applicable local, state and national codes, and any relevant national and
international standards.
      (2)   Collection cables. All electrical collection cables between each
WECS shall be located underground wherever possible.
      (3)   Transmission lines. All transmission lines that are buried should
be at a depth consistent with or greater than local utility and
telecommunication underground lines standards or as negotiated with the land
owner or the land owner’s designee until the same reach the property line or a
substation adjacent to the property line.
   (E)   Color and finish. In addition to all applicable FAA requirements, the
following shall also apply.
      (1)   Wind turbines and towers. All wind turbines and towers that are
part of WECS shall be white, grey, or another non-obtrusive color.
      (2)   Blades. All blades shall be white, grey, or another non-obtrusive
color. Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
      (3)   Finishes. Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
      (4)   Exceptions. Exception may be made for meteorological towers, where
concerns exist relative to aerial spray applicators.
(F)   Warnings.
      (1)   Towers, transformers, and substations. For all commercial WECS, a
sign or signs shall be posted on the tower, transformer and substation warning
of high voltage. Signs with emergency contact information shall also be posted
on the turbine or at another suitable point.
      (2)   Guy wires and anchor points. For all guyed towers, one of the
following warning mechanisms shall be used for each anchor point.
         (a)   Visible or reflective objects. Visible and reflective objects,
such as flags, plastic sleeves, reflectors, or tape placed on the anchor points
of guy wires and along the innermost guy wires up to eight feet above the
ground.
         (b)   Visible fencing. Visible fencing not less than four feet in
height installed around anchor points of guy wires.
      (3)   Non-commercial WECS and micro-WECS. The following notices shall be
clearly visible on all non-commercial WECS and micro-WECS towers and accessory
facilities.
         (a)   “No trespassing” signs shall be attached to any perimeter fence.
         (b)   “Danger” signs shall be posted at the height of five feet on
WECS towers and accessory structures.
         (c)   A sign shall be posted on the tower showing an emergency
telephone number.
         (d)   The manual electrical and/or overspeed shutdown disconnect
switch(es) shall be clearly labeled.
      (4)   Meteorological towers. Consideration shall be given to paint
aviation warning on all meteorological towers.
   (G)   Climb prevention. All commercial WECS tower designs shall include
features to deter climbing or be protected by anti-climbing devices such as:
      (1)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet in height; or
      (2)   Anti-climbing devices 15 feet vertically from the base of the WECS
tower; or
      (3)   Locked WECS tower doors.
   (H)   Blade clearance. The minimum distance between the ground and any
protruding blades(s) utilized on all commercial WECS shall be 25 feet, as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades. The minimum distance
between the ground and any protruding blade(s) utilized on all remaining WECS
shall be a minimum of 15 feet, as measured at the lowest point of the arc of
the blades, provided the rotor blade does not exceed 20 feet in diameter. In
either instance, the minimum distance shall be increased as necessary to
provide for vehicle clearance in locations where over-sized vehicles might
travel.
   (I)   Lighting.
      (1)   Intensity and frequency. All lighting, including lighting intensity
and frequency of strobe, shall adhere to but not exceed requirements
established by Federal Aviation Administration permits and regulations.
      (2)   Shielding. Except with respect to lighting required by the FAA,
lighting may require shielding so that no glare extends substantially beyond
any WECS structure.
   (J)   Materials handling, storage and disposal.
      (1)   Solid wastes. All solid wastes whether generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging, operation or maintenance of the facility,
including old parts and equipment related to the construction, operation and/or
maintenance of any WECS shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws.
      (2)   Hazardous materials. All hazardous materials or waste related to
the construction, operation and/or maintenance of any WECS shall be handled,
stored, transported and disposed of in accordance with all applicable local,
state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 158.07 OTHER APPLICABLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Guyed wire anchors. No guyed wire anchors shall be allowed within any
required road right-of-way setback.
   (B)   Sewer and water. All WECS facilities shall comply with the existing
septic and well regulations as required by the Spencer County Health Department
and/or the State of Indiana Department of Public Health.
   (C)   Noise and vibration. The noise level of non-commercial WECS shall be
no greater than 60 decibels measured from the nearest residence. This level may
only be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe
wind storms. All other noise and vibration levels shall be in compliance with
all county, state and federal regulations.
   (D)   Utility interconnection. The WECS, if interconnected to a utility
system, shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operate as
prescribed by the applicable regulations of the electrical utility, as amended
from time to time.
   (E)   Signage. In addition to complying with Chapter 10, Sign Standards, the
following signage regulations and standards shall also apply. In the event that
one of the following regulations or standards conflicts with another sign
regulation or standard prescribed by this chapter, the most restrictive
regulation or standard shall apply.
      (1)   Surface area. No sign shall exceed 16 square feet in surface area.
      (2)   Height. No sign shall exceed eight feet in height.
      (3)   Manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo. The
manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo may be placed upon the
compartment containing the electrical equipment.
      (4)   Development signs. An identification sign relating to the wind farm
development may be located on each side of the total project area, provided
that there are no more than four signs located on any one project site.
      (5)   Other signs and logos. No other advertising signs or logos shall be
placed or painted on any WECS.
   (F)   Feeder lines. With the exception of minimum setback distances, feeder
lines installed as part of any WECS shall not be considered an essential
service. To wit, all communications and feeder lines installed as part of any
WECS shall be buried underground wherever possible.
   (G)   Other appurtenances. No appurtenances other than those associated with
the wind turbine operations shall be connected to any wind tower except with
express, written permission by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 158.08 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Physical modifications. In general, any physical modification to any
WECS that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major electrical
components shall require re-certification. Like-kind replacements shall not
require re-certification. Therefore, prior to making any physical modification,
the owner or operator shall confer with the Building Inspector and Area Plan
Commission to determine whether the physical modification requires
recertification.
   (B)   Interference. Prior to construction, a communications study to
minimize interference with public or public serving utility microwave
transmissions shall be completed. If necessary, the applicant, owner and/or
operator shall mitigate interference with electromagnetic communications, such
as radio, telephone, microwaves, or television signals caused by any WECS. In
addition, the applicant, owner, and/or operator shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   Pre-construction. The applicant shall complete a communications
study prior to construction so as to minimize interference with any public or
public serving utility microwave transmissions.
      (2)   Post-construction. If, after construction of the WECS, the owner or
operator receives a written complaint related to interference with the
broadcast of residential television, telecommunication, communication or
microwave transmissions, the owner or operator shall take reasonable steps to
mitigate said interference. Interference with private telecommunications
systems such as GPS shall be between the company and the complainant.
      (3)   Failure to remedy a complaint. If an agreement to remedy a known
interference is not reached within 90 days, appropriate action will be taken,
which may result in requiring the WECS to become inactive. This does not apply
to interference with private telecommunications systems.
   (C)   Declaration of public nuisance. Any WECS thereof declared to be unsafe
by the White County Building Inspector by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, damage or abandonment is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal in accordance with the approved Decommissioning Plan.
   (D)   Safety and security plan. A safety and security plan shall be
submitted demonstrating provisions for site security and safety. If the plan
includes using Spencer County services, it shall include the signatures of
proper authorities indicating they are aware of their role and are capable of
performing it. Coordination of local emergency responders must be included.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.09 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   (A)   Plan, generally. Prior to receiving an improvement location permit or
building permit, or siting approval under this chapter, the county and the
applicant, owner and/or operator shall formulate a decommissioning plan
outlining the anticipated means and cost of removing a WECS at the end of their
serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued or abandoned use to ensure
that the WECS is properly decommissioned.
   (B)   Content. A decommissioning plan shall include, at a minimum, language
to the following:
      (1)   Assurance. Written assurance that the facilities will be properly
decommissioned upon the project life or in the event that the facility is
abandoned.
      (2)   Cost estimates. The applicant shall provide a contractor cost
estimate for demolition and removal of the WECS facility. The cost estimates
shall be made by a competent party such as a professional engineer, a
contractor capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or
experience with decommissioning WECS.
      (3)   Financial assurance. Applicant will provide financial assurance in
an amount at least equal to said demolition and removal contractor cost
estimate, through the use of a bond, letter of credit or other security
acceptable to the county, for the cost of decommissioning each tower and
related improvements constructed under the permit. Said security will be
released when each tower is properly decommissioned as determined by the
Spencer County Building Inspector.
      (4)   Future re-evaluations. Any decommissioning plan shall be re-
evaluated no less than every five years and submitted to the county Building
Inspector for approval.
   (C)   Discontinuation and abandonment.
      (1)   Discontinuation. All WECS shall be considered a discontinued use
after one year without energy production, unless a plan is developed and
submitted to the county Building Inspector outlining the steps and schedule for
returning the WECS to service.
      (2)   Abandonment by the owner or operator. In the event of abandonment
by the owner or operator, the applicant will provide an affidavit to the county
Building Inspector representing that all easements for wind turbines shall
contain terms that provide financial assurance, including access to the salvage
value of the equipment, for the property owners to ensure that facilities are
properly decommissioned within one year of expiration or earlier termination of
the project.
   (D)   Removal. An applicant’s obligations shall include removal of all
physical material pertaining to the project improvements to no less than a
depth of four feet below ground level within 365 days of the discontinuation or
abandonment of the facility, and restoration of the project area to as near as
practicable the condition of the site immediately before construction of such
improvements by the owner, or by the county at the owner’s expense.
   (E)   Written notices. Prior to implementation of the existing procedures
for the resolution of such default(s), the appropriate county body shall first
provide written notice to the owner and/or operator, setting forth the alleged
default(s). Such written notice shall provide the owner and/or operator a
reasonable time period not to exceed 60 days, for good faith negotiations to
resolve the alleged default(s).
   (F)   Costs incurred by the county. If the county removes a tower and
appurtenant facilities, it may sell the salvage to defray the costs of removal.
By approval, the permittee or granter grants a license to White County to enter
the property to remove a tower pursuant to the terms of an approved
decommissioning plan.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.10 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner or operator of any WECS shall maintain a current general liability
policy covering bodily injury and property damage and may be required to name
White County as an additional insured with dollar amount limits per occurrence,
in the aggregate, and a deductible, which is suitable to the county.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.11 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Permits and variances shall be applied for and reviewed under the procedures
established by this chapter, except that the application for a commercial WECS
improvement location permit shall also include the following information.
   (A)   Applications for all wind energy conversion systems. An application
for all WECS shall include the following information:
      (1)   Contact information of project applicant. The name(s), address(es),
and phone number(s) of the applicant(s), as well as a description of the
applicant's business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
      (2)   Contact information of current project owner. The name(s), address
(es), and phone number(s) of the owner(s), as well as a description of the
owner's business structure and overall role in the proposed project, and
including documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property on
which the WECS is proposed to be located. The Area Plan Commission shall be
informed of any changes in ownership.
      (3)   Contact information of project operator. The name(s), address(es),
and phone number(s) of the operator(s), as well as a description of the
operator’s business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
      (4)   Legal description. The legal description, address and general
location of the project.
      (5)   Project description. A WECS project description, including to the
extent possible, information on each wind turbine proposed, including:
         (a)   Number of turbines;
         (b)   Type;
         (c)   Name plate generating capacity;
         (d)   Tower height;
         (e)   Rotor diameter;
         (f)   Total height;
         (g)   Anchor base;
         (h)   The means of interconnecting with the electrical grid;
         (i)   The potential equipment manufacturer(s); and
         (j)   All related accessory structures.
      (6)   A site layout plan. A site plan, drawn to scale, including
distances and certified by a registered land surveyor.
      (7)   Engineering certification. For all WECS, the manufacturer’s
engineer or another qualified registered professional engineer shall certify,
as part of the building permit application, that the turbine, foundation and
tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional standards, given local
soil and climate conditions. An engineering analysis of the tower showing
compliance with the applicable regulations and certified by a licensed
professional engineer shall also be submitted. The analysis shall be
accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the
tower, base, and footings.
      (8)   Proof of correspondence and cooperation with wildlife agencies. For
the purposes of preventing harm to migratory birds and in compliance with the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the applicant shall provide written documentation
that he or she is in direct correspondence and cooperation with the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (9)   Economic development agreement. The applicant, owner, and operator
shall enter into an economic development agreement with the Board of
Commissioners of Spencer County and the Spencer County Council to address
matters related to economic development and the economic impact of the proposed
WECS project with respect to each county governing entities duly respective
powers.
   (B)   Applications for non-commercial wind energy conversion systems. In
addition to the application requirements listed herein, applications for all
wind energy conversion systems, applications for non-commercial WECS shall also
include the following information.
      (1)   Demonstration of energy need. The primary purpose of the production
of energy from a non-commercial WECS shall be to serve the energy needs of that
tract. The applicant(s) shall demonstrate how much energy is needed and how the
proposed size and number of the WECS fulfills this need. Net-metering may be
allowed, but shall not be the primary intent of the WECS.
      (2)   Statement of FAA compliance. A statement of compliance with all
applicable FAA rules and regulations, including any necessary approvals for
installations within close proximity to an airport.
      (3)   Utility notification. No non-commercial WECS shall be installed
until evidence has been given that the local utility company has been informed
of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator.
Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   Compliance with National Electrical Code. A line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code. This
information is frequently supplied by the manufacturer.
   (C)   Applications for commercial wind energy conversion systems. In
addition to the application requirements listed in division (A) of this
section, applications for commercial WECS shall also include the following
information.
      (1)   A preliminary site layout plan. In place of the site layout plan
described in division (A)(6) above, an application for a commercial WECS shall
include a preliminary site layout plan with distances drawn to scale
illustrating the following. (Note: All drawings shall be at a scale not smaller
than one inch equals 50 feet with a scale of one inch equals 30 feet being
preferred. Any other scale must be approved by the Executive Director. No
individual sheet or drawing shall exceed 24 inches by 36 inches.)
         (a)   Property lines, including identification of adjoining
properties.
         (b)   The latitude and longitude of each individual wind turbine,
along with individual identification of each WECS.
         (c)   Dimensional representation of the structural components of the
tower construction including the base and footings.
         (d)   WECS access roads.
         (e)   Substations.
         (f)   Electrical cabling.
         (g)   Ancillary equipment.
         (h)   Primary structures within one quarter mile of all proposed WECS.
         (i)   Required setback lines.
         (j)   Location of all public roads which abut, or traverse the
proposed site.
         (k)   The location of all above-ground utility lines within a distance
of two times the height of any proposed WECS structure.
         (l)   The location of any historic or heritage sites as recognized by
the Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology of the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, within one mile of a proposed WECS.
         (m)   The location of any wetlands based upon a delineation plan
prepared in accordance with the applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
requirements and guidelines, within one mile of a proposed WECS.
         (n)   Any other item reasonably requested by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      (2)   Topographic map. A USGS topographical map, or map with similar
data, of the property and the surrounding area, including any other WECS within
ten rotor distance, but no less than a one quarter mile radius from the
proposed project site, with contours of not more than five-foot intervals.
      (3)   Noise profile.
         (a)   Location of all known WECS within one mile of the proposed WECS,
including a description of the potential impacts on said WECS and wind
resources on adjacent properties.
         (b)   Copy of the communications study.
   (D)   Aggregated project applications. Aggregated projects may jointly
submit a single application and be reviewed under joint proceedings, including
notices, hearing, and reviews and as appropriate, approvals.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   Commercial WECS, non-commercial WECS, micro-WECS, and
meteorological towers. As prescribed the county’s Official Schedule of Fees.
      (2)   Aggregated projects. Applications will be assessed fees for each
construction phase within a single project, as prescribed by the county’s
Official Fee Schedule.
   (F)   Permits.
      (1)   Commercial WECS, non-commercial WECS, micro-WECS, and
meteorological towers. As prescribed by this chapter.
      (2)   Aggregated projects. Permits for aggregated projects will be issued
by construction phases and recorded separately, as prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.12 PRE-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the following shall be
submitted to and reviewed by the Building Inspector, who shall certify that the
following are in compliance with all applicable regulations:
   (A)   FAA permit application. An FAA permit application.
   (B)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan as prescribed in this
chapter.
   (C)   Economic development, drainage, and road use and maintenance
agreements. An economic development agreement, a drainage agreement, and a road
use and maintenance agreement approved by the County Commissioners. The
agreement shall be developed in conjunction with the White County Economic
Development office. This agreement must be signed before any building permit is
issued. The drainage agreement must prescribe or reference provisions to
address crop and field tile damages.
   (D)   Erosion control plan. An erosion control plan developed in
consultation with the Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS), and any
storm water quality management plan adopted by the applicable jurisdiction.
   (E)   Utility plan. A utility plan drawn to the same scale as the site plan
illustrating the location of all underground utility lines associated with the
total WECS project. (Note: All drawings shall be at a scale not smaller than
one inch equals 50 feet with a scale of one inch equals 30 feet being
preferred. Any other scale must be approved by the Executive Director. No
individual sheet or drawing shall exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (F)   Final site layout plan. Provide a copy of the final site layout plan
illustrating the final location of all that is required in the preliminary site
layout plan, as approved by the landowner.
   (G)   Avoidance and mitigation of damages to public infrastructure. In
addition to complying with the approved road use and maintenance agreement, an
applicant, owner, or operator proposing to use any county road(s), for the
purpose of transporting commercial WECS or substation parts and/or equipment
for construction, operation or maintenance of a commercial WECS or substation,
shall comply with the following pre-construction requirements.
      (1)   Identification of roads and services. Identify all roads and
services, to the extent that any proposed routes that will be used for
construction and maintenance purposes shall be identified. If the route
includes a public road, it shall be approved by the Spencer County Highway
Department.
      (2)   Pre-construction survey. The applicant shall conduct a pre-
construction baseline survey acceptable to the Highway Superintendent to
determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage. The
survey shall include photographs, or video, or a combination thereof, and a
written agreement to document the condition of the public facility.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.13 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   During construction, the applicant shall demonstrate that the following
requirements are being met.
   (A)   Dust control. Reasonable dust control measures shall be required by
the county during construction of a commercial WECS.
   (B)   Drainage. Reasonable storm water best management practices as required
by the approved drainage plan/agreement on file with the Spencer County
Surveyor.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.14 POST-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Post-construction, the applicant shall comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Road repairs. Any road damage caused by the construction of project
equipment, the installation of the same, or the removal of the same, shall be
repaired to the satisfaction of the White County Highway Superintendent. The
superintendent may choose to require either remediation of road repair upon
completion of the project or are authorized to collect fees for oversized load
permits. Further, a corporate surety bond in an amount to be fixed by a
professional engineer may be required by the superintendent to insure the
county that future repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the unit of
local government. The cost of bonding is to be paid by the applicant.
   (B)   As-built plans requirement. Where upon completion of all development,
the exact measurements of the location of utilities and structures erected
during the development are necessary for public record and shall therefore be
recorded. The applicant, owner, or operator shall submit a copy of the final
construction plans (as-built plans), as amended, to the Building Inspector with
the exact measurements thereon shown. The Building Inspector, after being
satisfied that the measurements are substantially the same as indicated on the
originally approved final plan(s), shall approve, date and sign said
construction plans for the project, which the applicant, owner, or operator
shall then record.
   (C)   Change in ownership. It is the responsibility of the owner or operator
listed in the application to inform the Executive Director of all changes in
ownership and operation during the life of the project, including the sale or
transfer of ownership or operation.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 158.15 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum setback distances for commercial WECS. The minimum setback
distances for commercial WECS are as follows.
Distance From                         Minimum Setback Distance
                                      1.1 times the total height (where the
Property line, measured from the      blade tip is at its highest point) for
center of the WECS to the property    non-participating landowners. The setback
line                                  requirement may be waived, in writing, by
                                      participating land-owners. Which will be
                                      no less than 1,000 feet.
Residential dwellings, measured from  One thousand (1,000) feet for non-
the center of the WECS to the nearest participating landowners.1 The setback
corner of the structure               requirement may be waived, in writing, by
                                      participating landowners.
Road right-of-way, measured from the  1.1 times the total height (where the
center of the WECS to the edge of the blade tip is at its highest point),
right-of-way                          provided that the distance is no less
                                      than 350 feet.2
Other rights-of-way, such as          1.1 times the total height (where the
railroads and utility easements,      blade tip is at its highest point),
measured from the center of the WECS  provided that the distance is no less
to the edge of the right-of-way       than 350 feet
Public conservation lands, measured
from the center of the WECS to the    750 feet
nearest point of the public
conservation land in question
Wetlands, as defined by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, measured from the As determined by a permit obtained from
center of the WECS to the nearest     the Army Corps of Engineers
point of the wetland in question
Residential, commercial, industrial   2 miles
or artisan well.
Incorporated limits of a
municipality, measured from the       3 miles
center of the WECS to the corporate
limits
School corporation property lines     12,000 feet
1   The setback for residential dwellings shall be reciprocal in that no
residential dwelling shall be constructed within 1,000 feet of a commercial
WECS.
2   The setback shall be measured from future rights-of-way width if a planned
road improvement or expansion is known at the time of application.
 
   (B)   Minimum setback distances for non-commercial WECS and micro-WECS. The
minimum setback distances for non-commercial WECS and micro-WECS are as
follows.
Distance From Minimum Setback Distance
Distance From                         Minimum Setback Distance
                                      1.1 times the total height (where the
Property line, measured from the      blade tip is at its highest point),
center of the WECS to the property    provided that the distance is no less
line                                  than the required yard setback prescribed
                                      for that district
Residential dwellings, measured from  1.1 times the total height (where the
the center of the WECS to the nearest blade tip is at its highest point)
corner of the structure
                                      1.1 times the total height (where the
Road right-of-way, measured from the  blade tip is at its highest point),
center of the WECS to the edge of the provided that the distance is no less
right-of-way                          than the required yard setback prescribed
                                      for that district
Other rights-of-way, such as          1.1 times the total height (where the
railroads and utility easements,      blade tip is at its highest point),
measured from the center of the WECS  provided that the distance is no less
to the edge of the right-of-way       than the required yard setback prescribed
                                      for that district
Public conservation lands, measured
from the center of the WECS to the    750 feet
nearest point of the public
conservation land in question
Wetlands, as defined by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, measured from the As determined by a permit obtained from
center of the WECS to the nearest     the Army Corps of Engineers
point of the wetland in question
Floodplain                            No wind turbine will be allowed
3   The setback shall be measured from future rights-of-way width if a planned
road improvement or expansion is known at the time of application.
 
   (C)   Minimum setback distances for meteorological towers are as follows.
 
Distance From                         Minimum Setback Distance
Property line, measured from the      1.1 times the total height, provided that
center of the WECS to the property    the distance is no less than the required
line                                  yard setback
Residential dwellings, measured from
the center of the WECS to the nearest 1.1 times the total height
corner of the structure
Road right-of-way, measured from the  1.1 times the total height, provided that
center of the WECS to the edge of the the distance is no less than the required
right-of-way                          yard setback4
Other rights-of-way, such as          1.1 times the total height, provided that
railroads and utility easements,      the distance is no less than the required
measured from the center of the WECS  yard setback
to the edge of the right-of-way
4   The setback shall be measured from future rights-of-way width if a planned
road improvement or expansion is known at the time of application.
 
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-5-2022; Ord. 2024-06, passed 4-16-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
III.   LAND VACATIONS
      
IV.   LAND DEDICATIONS
      
V.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VI.   LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
      
VII.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
VIII.   STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IX.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
X.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AREAS; REVITALIZATION
      
XI.   ADOPTION OF PLANS
      
XII.   ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
80-3       8-4-1980    Cable television franchise granted to Owensboro on the
                       Air for a term of 20 years.
-          4-19-1982   Antenna television franchise granted to Robert Wall and
                       associates for a term of 15 years.
R. 84-5    9-4-1984    Cable television franchise transfer from Dear
                       Publication and Radio, Inc., to Midwest Cable, Inc.
1988-4     12-27-1988  Cable television franchise granted to Country Cable
                       Systems, Inc., for a term of 25 years.
1994-10    7-19-1994   Amendment of the antenna television franchise granted to
                       Tele-Media of the Mid-South, L.P.
                       Consenting the assignment of a community antenna
R. -       5-6-1996    television system franchise by Tele-Media Company of the
                       Mid-South, L.P., to Fanch Communications Partners, L.P.,
                       for a term of 14 years.
1996-08    7-16-1996   Cable television transfer from Regional Cable TV (USA),
                       Inc., to New Path Communications, L.C.
                       Consenting the assignment of a cable television
R. 2001-11 9-4-2001    franchise by Owensboro on the Air, Inc., to Owensboro
                       Indiana, L.P., for a term of 21 years.
                       Cable television and closed circuit electronic system
2005-1     1-18-2005   franchise to Perry Spencer Rural Telephone Cooperative,
                       Inc., for a term of 25 years.
                       Consenting to the assignment of a cable television
R. 2005-12 8-1-2005    franchise by Adelphia Communications Corporation to Time
                       Warner NY Cable, L.L.C.
                      
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
1967-1     5-15-1967   Incorporating the Town of Santa Claus, into the county,
                       divided into three wards.
1993-2     2-1-1993    Annexation of contiguous territory by the Town of Dale.
R. 1997-04 3-3-1997    Approval of the annexation of non-contiguous territory,
                       which is to be used for an industrial park.
1997-9     9-22-1997   Annexation of contiguous property by the City of
                       Rockport.
                       Incorporating the Town of Richland into the county for
2008-09    7-1-2008    the use of commercial, industrial, residential, or
                       similar purposes.
                      
 
TABLE III: LAND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1986- 2-3-   Vacation of portions of Greenwood Street, Glenn Street, Bullock Street, Debruler
1     1986   Street, and East Street, all of which are located in Carter Township.
1990- 10-1-  Vacation of a portion of an alley located in the Town of Hatfield.
8     1990
1992- 2-3-   Vacation of a portion of Elm Street and an alley located in the City of
2     1992   Richland.
1993- 6-7-   Vacation of certain portions of Bullock Street, Mitchell Street from Harrison
7     1993   Street to Debruler Street, and Glen Street from Harrison Street to Debrueler
             Street, all located in Carter Township.
1994- 2-7-   Vacation of certain portions of streets in the Mariah Hill Addition in the Town
1     1994   of Mariah Hill, located in Carter Township.
1994- 4-4-   Vacation of a public way located on West Street, 33 feet in width, between Lots
4     1994   9 and 12 on the east and Lots 10 and 11 on the west, in the original plat of
             Trinkle’s Addition to the Town of Centerville.
1994- 5-2-   Vacation of a certain alley located between Green Street and Main Street, and
6     1994   Fifth Street and Sixth Street, in the Town of St. Meinrad.
1994- 11-23- Vacation of a certain alley located in the Medcalf and Woods Addition in the
4     1994   Town of Dale.
1995- 7-3-   Vacation of a certain alley located in the C.G. Bauer’s Addition to the Town of
6     1995   Evanston, in Huff Township.
1996- 7-1-   Vacating a portion of a street in the Westgate Subdivision, Phase B, in Ohio
5     1996   Township; petitioned by Harold B. Kelly, Robert Ralph and Angela Ralph, and
             Robbie Philhower.
1996- 7-1-   Vacating a portion of a street in the Westgate Subdivision, Phase B, in Ohio
6     1996   Township; petitioned by Harold B. Kelly.
1997- 1-6-   Vacation of a portion of certain public ways, commonly known as County Roads 650
04    1997   N, 200 E, and 700 N.
1997- 6-2-   Vacation of a portion of certain public ways commonly known as County Roads 600
13    1997   N and 200 E.
97-15 7-4-   Vacation of certain streets located in the Town of Buffaloville.
      1997
1997- 11-3-  Vacation of a certain alley located between Lots 12 and 13 in the Town of Dale.
8     1997
98-08 4-21-  Vacation of a portion of Green Street in the Town of St. Meinrad.
      1998
1999- 5-3-   Vacation of certain platted streets and alleys located in the Town of
07B   1999   Buffaloville; petitioned by Brian K. Woolems, Dee Ann Woolems, Randall Dean
             Seneff, and Linda K. Seneff.
1999- 9-11-  Vacation of a certain alley located in the Hynes Addition in the City of
9B    1999   Rockport.
2000- 11-21- Vacation of a certain alley running from Third Street to Fourth Street between
16    2000   Lots 69, 70, 71, and 72, and located in the Town of St. Meinrad.
2009- 4-7-   Vacation of a certain street and alley located in the McCoy’s Addition in the
01    2009   Town of Bloomfield.
2010- 10-5-  Vacation of a certain alley in a plat located in “Mariah Hilf,” now known as the
11    2010   Town of Mariah Hill; petitioned by Deborah Kennedy, Luther L. Harper Jr., and
             Marcella Harper.
2011- 3-15-  Vacation of a portion of a certain alley and street located in the county, the
03    2011   street being approximately 157 feet south of Old State Road 66, and the alley
             being 279 feet to the south of Old State Road 66.
2011- 9-20-  Vacation of a certain plat of lots within Blocks 43, 44, and 46 located in
10    2011   Lincoln City.
2011- 10-18- Vacation of a certain plat of lots, portion of a certain alley, and a part of
11    2011   the unimproved Mitchell Street, located in Lincoln City.
2012- 7-17-  Vacation of a portion of County Road 700 E extending from the south side of
11    2012   County Road 1200 N, approximately 2,639 feet within the county.
2014- 5-7-   Vacation of several certain streets and alleys located in Lincoln City.
06    2014
2021- 3-16-  Vacation of County Road 1275 E south of County Road 1700 N, and all of the
04    2021   unimproved road designated as County Road 1300 E in Section 35, Township 4
             south, Range 4 west.
2021- 3-16-  Vacation of a portion of Long Johnnytown Road lying east of State Road 545 in
05    2021   Section 35, Township 4 south, Range 4 west.
            
 
TABLE IV: LAND DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Road dedication agreement resolution from November 5,
R. -       12-2-1985   1985, dedicated by Indiana & Michigan Electric Company
                       and AEP Generating Company.
                       Dedication of a vacant lot located at the northwest
                       corner of Main Street and Second Street, from Main
R. 2016-11 10-18-2016  Street to the alley, to Advantix Development Corporation
                       to be used as a parking lot for the development of a
                       housing complex.
                      
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      3-25-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1982   north-half of the northeast quarter of Section 9, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west.
7-22- 7-22-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located at the northwest
82    1982   corner of Section 9, Township 4 south, Range 4 west, in Carter Township.
8-26- 8-26-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located at the northwest
82    1982   corner of Section 4, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
11-   11-18- Changing the zoning classification from A to BP-3 for several plots of land,
18-82 1982   located in Harrison Township.
      12-20- Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1982   northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west.
-     6-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A or I-PH or I-2 to I-2; owned by
      1983   Ralph Warner and Don W. Masterson on 134 acres, more or less.
-     11-17- Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of
      1983   Section 6, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      5-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A in F-2 to I-1 in F-2; three acres
-     1984   located in the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 14,
             Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      5-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A and R-1 to I-PH; located in a part
-     1984   of the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 6 south, Range 5 west, in
             Hammond Township.
      5-21-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located at the point where
-     1984   the south line of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
             22, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
-     5-21-  Changing the zoning classification from B-1 to B-3; located at the northwest
      1984   corner of Brewery Street and Sixth Street, in Harrison Township.
      6-18-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1984   northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 19, Township 7 south,
             Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
-     6-18-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of
      1984   Section 7, Township 6 south, Range 5 west, in Hammond Township.
      8-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1984   northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 13, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      8-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
-     1984   east-half of the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 4 south, Range 4
             west, in Harrison Township.
      9-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located at the northwest
-     1984   quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 32, Township 5 south, Range 5
             west, containing 40 acres, and located in Clay Township.
      9-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1984   west-half of the southwest quarter of Section 18, Township 5 south, Range 4
             west, in Harrison Township.
      9-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located in a part of the
-     1984   southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 5 south,
             Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
-     12-3-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of
      1984   Section 30, Township 8 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to R-2; a parcel of land
-     1985   beginning at the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Lot 144 in the
             Town of St. Meinrad, in Harrison Township.
      3-4-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1985   northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 19, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      4-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1985   northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 19, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      6-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
-     1985   southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 11, Township 6 south,
             Range 4 west, in Huff Township.
      10-7-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1985   southeast corner of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
             6, Township 4 south, Range 4 west, in Harrison Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to R-2; located in Section 14,
-     6-2-   Township 4 south, Range 4 west, in Lots 137, 138, 139, and 140 in the first
      1986   addition to the Town of St. Meinrad, except 80 feet off the west side of Lot
             140, in Harrison Township.
      6-2-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to R-2; located in Section 14,
-     1986   Township 4 west, Range 4 west, 24 feet and nine inches off the west end of
             Lot 135, and all of Lot 136, in Harrison Township.
      10-6-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1986   southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      10-6-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1986   northeast quarter of the southeast quarter in Section 2, Township 6 south,
             Range 6 west, in Grass Township.
-     2-2-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located in Lot 4 in Villa
      1987   Ova #1 Subdivision, in Ohio Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to I-PL of two areas: Area A
             located in the west-half in the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 6
      2-26-  south, Range 4 west, containing 20 acres, more or less; and Area B located in
-     1987   the west-half of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7,
             Township 6 south, Range 4 west, containing 20 acres, more or less; also, in
             the west-half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 7,
             Township 6 south, Range 4 west, containing 20 acres, more or less.
      3-2-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in the east-half
87-2  1987   of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, 80
             acres, more or less, and located in Ohio Township.
      3-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-PL; located in the west-half
87-3  1987   of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 6
             south, Range 4 west, 20 acres, more or less, and located in Huff Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in the south-half
87-6  9-8-   of the northeast quarter and part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
      1987   quarter of Section 14, Township 4 south, Range 4 west, five-sixths of an
             acre, more or less, and located in Harrison Township.
      2-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
88-1  1988   northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 6 south, Range 4 west, in Huff
             Township.
      12-5-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1988   northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 8 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
      12-27- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located at the northeast
-     1988   corner of the southeast quarter of Section 10, Township 7 south, Range 7
             west, in Luce Township.
      5-1-   Changing the zoning classification from F-2 to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1989   northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 8 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located at the southwest
-     5-1-   corner of property owner Charles Roos in the northwest quarter of the
      1989   northeast quarter, Section 23, Township 5 south, Range 6 west, in Jackson
             Township.
      5-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1989   northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 6 south,
             Range 5 west, in Hammond Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to R-2; located in a part of the
-     7-3-   northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 6 south, Range 7 west, and also a
      1989   part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 13,
             Township 6 south, Range 7 west, in Grass Township.
      11-13- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1989   northeast quarter of Section 3, Township 7 south, Range 7 west (also known as
             “Tract A” on a certain plat of Lakeview Subdivision), in Luce Township.
      11-13- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1989   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 8 south,
             Range 8 west, in Ohio Township.
      3-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     1990   north-half of the northeast quarter of Section 9, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, in Carter Township.
      3-5-   Changing the zoning classification from I-PH to B-3; located in the west-half
-     1990   of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 6
             south, Range 6 west, in Grass Township.
      8-27-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located 157 feet south
-     1990   from the northwest corner of Section 14, Township 6 south, Range 5 west, in
             Hammond Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
-     8-27-  south-half of the northeast quarter and part of the north-half of the
      1990   southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter
             Township.
      3-4-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in a part of Lot
-     1991   1 in the original addition to the Town of Newtonville, and also a part of Lot
             3 in L. Newton’s Addition to the Town of Newtonville, in Hammond Township.
1991- 6-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
4     1991   northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
1991- 6-3-   Changing the zoning classification from B-3 to I-1; located in the south-half
5     1991   of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 7
             south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      11-4-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Lots 53 and 54
-     1991   in the Harold Bates Subdivision, being a part of the northeast quarter of
             Section 19, Township 7 south, Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
1991- 12-2-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
9     1991   east-half of the southeast quarter of Section 32, Township 7 south, Range 6
             west, in Ohio Township.
1992- 2-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
1     1992   northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
1992- 3-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
4     1992   northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 23, Township 7 south,
             Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
1992- 4-6-   Changing the zoning classification from F-2 to B-3; located in the south-half
5     1992   of the west quarter of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
             Section 17, Township 8 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
1992- 5-4-   Changing the zoning classification from F-2 to B-3; located in a part of
8     1992   Fractional Sections 14 and 23, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
1992- 8-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in the southeast
16    1992   quarter of Section 33, Township 6 south, Range 5 west, in Hammond Township.
1992- 12-7-  Changing the zoning classification from B-2 to I-2, in Harrison Township.
15    1992
1993- 2-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in the southwest
1     1993   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, 40 acres, more or less, in Carter Township.
1993- 2-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
2     1993   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
1993- 2-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in the east-half of
4A    1993   Lot 112 of the Town of Meinrad, in the first addition thereto, in Harrison
             Township.
1993- 4-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located in a part of the
5     1993   northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 7 west,
             Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
1993- 5-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in the southwest
6     1993   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 14, Township 5 south, Range 6
             west, in Jackson Township.
1993- 7-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
8     1993   southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
1993- 9-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
9     1993   northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
1993- 9-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in a part of the
10    1993   south-half of the southeast quarter of Section 10, Township 6 south, Range 4
             west, in Huff Township.
1993- 10-4-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located in a part of the
11    1993   southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 8 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
1994- 5-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
8     1994   southwest quarter of Section 30, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
      5-17-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
-     1994   east-half of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 5,
             Township 8 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
      6-6-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
-     1994   northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 5 south,
             Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
      8-1-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in the southeast
-     1994   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 7 south, Range 7
             west, in Luce Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in a part of the
-     8-1-   northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 5 south,
      1994   Range 5 west (Tract A), and a part of the northwest quarter of Section 1,
             Township 5 south, Range 5 west (Tract B), in Clay Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in a part of the
-     10-3-  southeast quarter of the northeast quarter and the north-half of the
      1994   southeast quarter of the east-half of the southwest quarter of the northeast
             quarter of Section 8, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
-     10-2-  Changing the zoning classification from B-3 to I-1; located in parts of Lots
      1995   21, 22, 23, and 24 in the Wright Acres Subdivision, in Ohio Township.
      11-6-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1995   southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 7 south, Range 7 west, in Luce
             Township.
      12-4-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1995   east one-half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8,
             Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      1-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located in a part of the
-     1996   west side of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 4,
             Township 5 south, Range 5 west, in Clay Township.
      10-7-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Lots 6, 7, 8,
-     1996   9, 10, and 11 in the Wright Acres Subdivision (part of the northeast quarter
             of Section 19, Township 7 south, Range 6 west), in Ohio Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located on the east side of
      11-4-  U.S. 231 north between County Roads 700 N and 500 N in Sections 24 and 25 in
-     1996   Grass Township, and between County Roads 550 N and 700 N in the west-half of
             the west-half of Section 19, and the west-half of the northwest quarter in
             Section 30, in Hammond Township.
      12-2-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1996   southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 8 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
1997- 1-2-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
03    1997   northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 4 south,
             Range 4 west, in Harrison Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in the north-half
-     1997   of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 11, Township 5
             south, Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in a part of the
-     1997   southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 12, Township 5 south,
             Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1997   northeast quarter of northeast quarter of Section 8, Township 4 south, Range
             5 west, in Carter Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in the north-half
-     1997   of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11, Township 5
             south, Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located 30 acres off of the
-     1997   east side of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 17,
             Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1997   south-half of the northeast quarter and part of the north-half of southeast
             quarter of Section 8, Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in the southeast
-     1997   quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 17, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, 40 acres, more or less, in Carter Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in the north-half
-     1997   of the southwest quarter of Section 12, Township 5 south, Range 6 west, in
             Jackson Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-2 to A; located in the northwest
-     1997   quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, in Carter Township.
      3-3-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
-     1997   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 8, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
      4-7-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located on Base Road, in
-     1997   a part of the northwest quarter of Section 28, Township 7 south, Range 6
             west, in Ohio Township.
-     5-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in a part of the
      1997   north-half of Section 11, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
-     5-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Lot 4 in Villa
      1997   Ova #1 Subdivision, in Ohio Township.
      5-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in the southeast
-     1997   quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 6 south, Range 6
             west, in Ohio Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to I-1; located in a part of the
-     5-5-   northwest quarter of the southeast quarter, and part of the southwest quarter
      1997   of the northeast quarter of Section 22, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in
             Ohio Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to R-2; located in a part of the
-     5-5-   northwest quarter of the northeast quarter, and a part of the southwest
      1997   quarter of the northeast quarter, all in Section 11, Township 5 south, Range
             5 west, in Clay Township.
      9-2-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located in a part of the
-     1997   north-half of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 5 south, Range 5
             west, in Clay Township.
1997- 10-4-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located in Lot 100 in
18    1997   John Carter’s Second Addition to the Town of Richland, in Luce Township.
      11-18- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in a part of the
-     1997   west-half of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 26,
             Township 5 south, Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
      12-1-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in the southwest
-     1997   quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 14, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, in Carter Township.
1998- 2-2-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located in the east-half
02    1998   of the southeast quarter of Section 23, Township 6 south, Range 6 west, in
             Grass Township.
1998- 10-5-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in a part of the
14    1998   south-half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8,
             Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
1998- 12-7-  Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Lots 12 and 29
22    1998   in the Town of St. Meinrad, in Harrison Township.
1998- 12-7-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in a part of the
23    1998   west-half of the northeast quarter of Section 4, Township 5 south, Range 5
             west, in Clay Township.
1999- 1-4-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in Ohio Township,
03    1999   Sections 2 and 11, and Grass Township, Sections 22 and 23.
1999- 2-1-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located in parts of Lots
02    1999   102 and 103 in the Town of St. Meinrad, Harrison Township.
1999- 5-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located in Lots 98, 99,
07A   1999   100, 137, 138, 139, the north-half of Lot 101, and the north-half of Lot 136,
             on the corner of Washington Street and West Street, in Harrison Township.
1999- 11-29- Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located in a part of the
18    1999   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 29, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
2000- 5-1-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located at the southeast
5     2000   corner of the northeast quarter of Section 22, Township 6 south, Range 7
             west, in Luce Township.
2000- 5-1-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-1; located at the northeast
06    2000   corner of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 13,
             Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located at the southeast
-     2-5-   corner of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 35, going
      2001   north 680 feet then west 100 feet, then back south 680 feet and back 100 feet
             to the point of beginning, in Luce Township.
      2-5-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located at the northwest
-     2001   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 18, Township 5 south, Range 4
             west, in Harrison Township.
2001- 5-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-1; located in a part of the
05    2001   northwest quarter of the northwest of Section 6, Township 4 south, Range 5
             west, in Carter Township.
2001- 11-5-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
11    2001   southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11, Township 7 south,
             Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
2003- 7-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
10    2003   northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 7 south,
             Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
2003- 7-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in a part of the
11    2003   south-half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 14,
             Township 7 south, Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
2003- 7-15-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in a part of the
12    2003   northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 22, Township 4 south,
             Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
2003- 12-1-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in a part of the
20    2003   north-half of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 7 south, Range 7
             west, in Luce Township.
2004- 1-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located in a part of the
01    2004   northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 7 south, Range 6 west, in Ohio
             Township.
             Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to A; located in Lots 1, 2, 3, 4,
2004- 2-2-   5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in Block 43, Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
02    2004   10, 11, and 12 in Block 46, and all of Blocks 44 and 45, all located in
             Lincoln City, in Carter Township.
2004- 3-16-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; located in the west-half of
06    2004   the northeast quarter of Section 4, Township 5 south, Range 5 west, in Clay
             Township.
2006- 10-17- Changing the zoning classification from B-P3 to R-1; located in a part of the
11    2006   southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 23, Township 5 south,
             Range 6 west, in Jackson Township.
2006- 10-17- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-1; located in the west-half of
12    2006   the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 4
             south, Range 5 west, 20 acres, more or less, in Carter Township.
2007- 5-22-  Changing the zoning classification from A to I-2; located in a part of the
02    2007   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 34, Township 4 south,
             Range 4 west, 7.13 acres, more or less, in Harrison Township.
2008- 10-21- Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-2; located in a part of the
13    2008   northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 3, Township 5 south,
             Range 4 west, in Harrison Township.
2010- 3-2-   Changing the zoning classification to I-1; located in a part of the northeast
03    2010   quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 7 south, Range 6
             west, in Ohio Township.
2010- 3-2-   Changing the zoning classification from B-2 to A; located in a part of the
04    2010   southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 8 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
2011- 2-14-  Changing the zoning classification from A to B-3; commonly known as 9419 E
01    2011   State Road 62, Ferdinand, IN 47532, in Harrison Township.
2011- 4-5-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Lot 64 of the
03A   2011   Harold Bates Subdivision, in Luce Township.
2013- 6-4-   Changing the zoning classification from B-3 to A; located at the southeast
04    2013   corner of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 8 south, Range 6 west,
             in Ohio Township.
2013- 8-6-   Changing the zoning classification from I-1, B-3, and R-1 to I-2 to several
06    2013   pieces of land owned by Leslie J. and Gay A. Banks.
2013- 11-19- Changing the zoning classification from B-P3 to R-2; located in the southwest
11    2013   quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 7 south, Range 6
             west, in Ohio Township.
2014- 2-3-   Changing the zoning classification from R-1 to B-3; located in Section 9,
01    2014   Township 7 south, Range 7 west, in Luce Township.
2014- 6-17-  Changing the zoning classification from B-3 to I-2; located in a part of the
12    2014   northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 7 south,
             Range 6 west, in Ohio Township.
2015- 11-17- Changing the zoning classification from I-2 to R-1; located in Section 6,
09    2015   Township 7 south, Range 5 west, in Hammond Township.
2015- 11-17- Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in Section 32,
10    2015   Township 4 south, Range 5 west, in Carter Township.
2016- 6-7-   Changing the zoning classification from A to B-2; located in Section 17,
06    2016   Township 4 south, Range 4 west, in Harrison Township.
2016- 12-20- Changing the zoning classification from A, R-1, and I-1 to I-1; two tracts
13    2016   located in Section 14, Township 6 south, Range 4 west, in Huff Township.
            
 
TABLE VI: LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
Council 9-7-   Sale of four tracts of land by the county for $2,060.
        1954
Council 7-14-  Purchase of land by the county from William R. Hynes for $5,959.
        1960
Council 5-15-  Sale of a tract of land by the county for an appraised value of
R.      1984   $10,000.
1984-3
R. -    4-17-  Purchase of three white 120 tractors by the county for $74,829.
        1989
R.      12-7-  Sale an transfer of computer property owned by the county to
1992-14 1992   Perry County for $2,000.
Council 6-18-  Transfer of sale of a piece of real estate, located in the Town
1996-1- 1996   of St. Meinrad, for the purpose of a new ballpark.
A
R.      4-15-  Transfer of a used ambulance to the Town of Chrisney for $1.
1997-06 1997
R.      7-7-   Conveying one acre of land, owned by the county, to the County
1997-09 1997   Habitat for Humanity, with a value of $1,000.
R.      7-7-   Sale of 0.678 acres by the county for $800 to abutting
1997-10 1997   landowners.
R.      7-31-  Sale by the County Redevelopment Commission of certain land in
1997-10 1997   the AK Steel Rockport Works Economic Development Area for $1.
Council 10-21- Approving the transfer of real property conveyed in Res. 1997-
1997-19 1997   09, passed 7-7-1997.
R.      4-2-   Transfer of a used Sheriff’s car to the Town of Grandview, for
2001-7  2001   $1.
R.      4-2-   Approval of the transfer of a used ambulance from the Town of
2001-9  2001   Chrisney Fire Department to the county for $1.
R.      4-2-   Approval of the transfer of a used ambulance from the county to
2001-10 2001   the Town of Chrisney for $1.
R.      12-2-  Request to the County Council to convey a tract of land, 0.09
2002-10 2002   acres, owned by the county to the County Habitat for Humanity,
               with a value of $1,000.
Council 12-17- Approving the transfer of real property conveyed in Res. 2002-
2002-14 2002   10, passed 12-2-2002.
R.      3-18-  Ambulance lease with the Indiana Bond Bank with the county.
2003-03 2003
R.      4-1-   Transfer of a used ambulance to the Town of Grandview, for $1.
2003-05 2003
R.      5-3-   Transfer of a used Sheriff’s car to the City of Rockport, for
2004-05 2004   $1.
R.      4-7-   Awarding a loan to the county from Integra Bank of $38,000 for
2005-06 2005   the purchase of new police interceptor vehicles.
R.      4-5-   Ambulance purchase for $93,000 for the county, and the borrowing
2016-02 2016   of money from Freedom Bank.
R.      3-6-   Borrowing $109,711 from Freedom Bank for the purchase of a new
2018-01 2018   ambulance.
R.      9-7-   Borrowing $109,515.50 from Old National Bank for the purchase of
2021-09 2021   a new ambulance.
              
 
TABLE VII: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Agreement between the City of Rockport and the
287             9-8-1959    county for the purchase, maintenance, and operation
                            of radio communication equipment.
                            Agreement between the Lincoln Hills Development
                            Corporation and the county for weatherization
R. 83-5         11-21-1983  activities, except for general administration and
                            final inspection of the Residential Energy
                            Management Program.
                            Approval of the plan of financing for air and water
                            pollution control, and sewage and solid waste
Council R. 84-7 9-24-1984   disposal facilities, for the generating station
                            known as the Rockport Generating Station, owned by
                            Indiana & Michigan Electric Company and American
                            Electric Power Company, Inc.
                           
 
TABLE VIII: STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             The county, in cooperation with Dubois County, in pursuing major highway
R.    2-5-   improvements, including a bypass to be constructed around the City of
90-1  1990   Huntingburg and the City of Jasper, Dubois County, Indiana, and
             improvements to U.S. 231 from I-64 to the new Owensboro bridge.
R.    9-15-  Transfer of streets and sidewalks to the county from the City of Rockport
1992- 1992   to aide in their revitalization for the city.
10
R.    11-6-  Transfer of a parking lot located in the City of Rockport, to the county
1995- 1995   to aide in the county’s courthouse revitalization project to revitalize
8            the courthouse’s sidewalks and parking areas.
R.           Acknowledging the completion of the Road Permit Agreement, dated 8-1-
2010- 9-21-  1994, between Triad Mining, Inc., and the county; the reconstructed
12    2010   portions of County Road 2000 E and County Road 500 E are now accepted as
             public county roads.
R.    8-6-
2013- 2013   Renaming eight lengths of roads or streets within the county.
15
R.    11-7-  Permanently closing a portion of County Road 300 N as a public right-of-
2017- 2017   way.
07
2024- 5-6-   Vacating part of Front Street and part of platted alleys in the
07    2024   unincorporated town of Enterprise, Luce Township.
            
 
TABLE IX: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Permission granted to Laffitte Drill and Supply Co. to
R. 1975-02 - -         lay certain gathering lines for the purpose of producing
                       gas from certain gas wells under the public rights-of-
                       way.
                       Designation of blight sites in public areas, located at
                       the southeast corner of Lot 52, and at a point 62 feet,
R. 2015-06 7-2-2015    two inches west and 77 feet north of the southeast
                       corner of Lot 52, all located in the William R. Hynes
                       Donation.
                      
 
TABLE X: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AREAS; REVITALIZATION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.             Date Passed Description
Council R. 85-3      - -         Financing the economic development facilities
                                 of Peerless Pottery, Inc., for $800,000.
                                 Financing the economic development facility
Council R.           7-21-1981   set forth in the report of the Dale Economic
                                 Development Commission.
                                 Financing the economic development facility
R.-                  8-29-1985   set forth in the Second Supplemental Project
                                 Report for the Rockport Generating Station of
                                 Indiana & Michigan Electric Company.
                                 Establishing the rules and regulations for the
87-6                 11-2-1987   economic revitalization area for Reo
                                 Development Corporation for taxes payable
                                 beginning in 1989.
R. 1997-01           1-2-1997    Financing the economic development area for AK
                                 Steel (Rockport Works Project) for $30,000.
                                 Preliminary resolution declaring an economic
Council R. 1997-02   1-2-1997    revitalization area for AK Steel (Rockport
                                 Works Project).
                                 Order of the County Advisory Plan Commission
-                    1-16-1997   that the declaratory resolution (Res. 1997-01)
                                 for AK Steel (Rockport Works Project) is
                                 approved.
                                 Confirming the economic development area
R. 1997-03           1-23-1997   resolution (Res. 1997-01) as a public utility
                                 and benefit.
                                 Approving the declaratory resolution (Res.
1997-05              1-23-1997   1997-01) and the order (dated 1-16-1997) for
                                 AK Steel (Rockport Works Project) economic
                                 development area.
                                 Regarding the establishment of the AK Steel
1997-06              2-3-1997    (Rockport Works Project) economic development
                                 area, as described in Res. 1997-01, and
                                 approving said economic development area.
                                 Board of Commissioners determining that it is
1997-10              3-3-1997    in the best interest of the county to
                                 establish the AK Steel (Rockport Works
                                 Project) economic development area.
                                 Approving tax abatement for the AK Steel
Council R. 1997-12   8-19-1997   (Rockport Works Project) economic development
                                 area.
                                 Approving tax abatement for the AK Steel
Council R. 1998-02   2-17-1998   (Rockport Works Project) economic development
                                 area.
                                 Concerning a waiver of any noncompliance for
                                 tax abatement for the AK Steel (Rockport Works
Council R. 2000-4    7-18-2000   Project) economic development area with MG
                                 Industries for tax assessment year March 1,
                                 1999.
                                 Concerning a waiver of any noncompliance for
                                 tax abatement for the AK Steel (Rockport Works
Council R. 2001-12-2 11-20-2001  Project) economic development area with MG
                                 Industries for tax assessment year March 1,
                                 2000.
                                 Concerning a waiver of any noncompliance for
                                 tax abatement for the AK Steel (Rockport Works
Council R. 2002-03   2-19-2002   Project) economic development area with
                                 Rockport Roll Shop, L.L.C., for tax assessment
                                 year March 1, 1999.
                                 Approving a declaratory resolution and
2007-03              5-31-2007   economic development plan for the Lincolnland
                                 Commerce Park economic development area.
                                 Designating certain real property located in
Council R. 2007-10   5-31-2007   the economic development area located in the
                                 county as an economic revitalization area.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area consisting of 18
Council R. 2009-06   6-16-2009   acres and located at 21219 N, U.S. 231, Dale,
                                 Indiana, and approving the tax abatement for
                                 Rock Creek Shavings, L.L.C.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2009-07   7-21-2009   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2009-06.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area consisting of 6.2
Council R. 2010-01   1-5-2010    acres located at 93 E County Road 200 N,
                                 Rockport, Indiana, and approving the tax
                                 abatement for Sceptre Mechanical, Inc.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area consisting of
Council R. 2010-02   1-19-2010   5.8222 acres located at 93 N County Road 275
                                 W, Rockport, Indiana, and approving the tax
                                 abatement for Wink Trailer Corporation.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2010-03   2-2-2010    revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2010-01.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2010-04   2-16-2010   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2010-02.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area consisting of 25
                                 acres located on the south side of State Road
Council R. 2011-02   3-15-2011   62 a distance of about 700 feet west of the
                                 intersection with State Road 162, and
                                 approving the tax abatement for M&DH
                                 Enterprises, L.L.C.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2011-03   4-19-2011   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2011-1.
                                 Rescinding the economic revitalization
                                 designation and tax abatement for Rock Creek
Council R. 2011-05   6-21-2011   Shavings, L.L.C., as stated in Council Res.
                                 2009-06, due to Rock Creek Shavings, L.L.C.,
                                 no longer being in business.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area located at County
Council R. 2012-10   10-8-2012   Road 350 N, Rockport, Indiana, and approving
                                 the tax abatement for Ohio Valley Resources,
                                 L.L.C.
                                 Concerning a waiver of any noncompliance for
Council R. 2013-07   3-19-2013   tax abatement for the Sceptre Mechanical,
                                 Inc., economic development revitalization area
                                 for tax year 2012.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2013-16   8-20-2013   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2012-10.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area consisting of
Council R. 2014-2    3-3-2014    18.27 acres located on the west side of State
                                 Road 545 a distance of about one mile north of
                                 Fulda, and approving the tax abatement for
                                 Automated Routing, Inc.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2014-03A  3-18-2014   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2014-2.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area located at County
Council R. 2015-05   6-16-2015   Road 2100 N in Carter Township, and approving
                                 the tax abatement for Hoosier Energy Rural
                                 Electric Cooperative, Inc.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2015-08   7-21-2015   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2015-05.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
                                 economic revitalization area located at 21419
Council R. 2016-05   7-19-2016   N County Road 400 E, Dale, Indiana, and
                                 approving the tax abatement for Superior Ag
                                 Resources Cooperative, Inc.
                                 Confirming the designation of a economic
Council R. 2016-06   7-19-2016   revitalization area, as stated in Council Res.
                                 2016-05.
                                 Final resolution for the establishment of an
Council R. 2016-07   8-16-2016   economic revitalization area and personal
                                 property tax abatement, as described in
                                 Council Res. 2016-05.
                                 Final resolution for the conformation of an
Council R. 2016-08   8-16-2016   economic revitalization area and personal
                                 property tax abatement, as established in
                                 Council Res. 2016-07.
                                 Confirming that the AK Steel (Rockport Works
2017-02              6-6-2017    Project) economic development area to be
                                 terminated, as the bonds have been paid in
                                 full.
                                 Designating a portion of the county as an
Council R. 2017-04   9-19-2017   economic revitalization area, and approving
                                 the tax abatement for Troy Solar, L.L.C.
                                 Final resolution for the establishment of an
Council R. 2017-05   10-17-2017  economic revitalization area and personal
                                 property tax abatement, as described in
                                 Council Res. 2017-04.
                                 Final resolution for the establishment of an
Council R. 2019-08   10-15-2019  economic revitalization area and personal
                                 property tax abatement for Grandview Solar
                                 Energy, L.L.C.
                                 Concerning a waiver of any noncompliance for
Council R. 2019-10   12-17-2019  tax abatement for Super Ag Resources
                                 Cooperative, Inc., economic development
                                 revitalization area, for tax year 2019.
                                 Preliminary amended and reinstated economic
Council R. 2020-16   8-18-2020   revitalization area, and approving the tax
                                 abatement for Grandview Solar Energy, L.L.C.
                                 Final resolution for the establishment of an
Council R. 2020-14   9-15-2020   economic revitalization area and personal
                                 property tax abatement for Grandview Solar
                                 Energy, L.L.C.
                                
 
TABLE XI: ADOPTION OF PLANS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     5-3-   Adoption of the county’s master development plan by the Board of
      1967   Commissioners.
R.           Adoption of the county’s comprehensive plan by the Board of
2022- - -    Commissioners.
01
            
 
TABLE XII: ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
Council
2016-   - -    Establishing a local Public Training Fund.
06A
Council 7-14-  Electing to become a participant in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund.
R.      1975
Council 6-1-   Establishing a Convention, Recreational, and Visitor Promotion Fund.
1994-3  1994
1995-8  12- -  Establishment of a Pretrial Diversion Program Fund.
        1995
1996-04 3-4-   Establishing a revolving loan fund for water and wastewater projects.
        1996
1996-4  5- -   Amending Ord. 1996-04, establishing a revolving loan fund for water and
        1996   wastewater projects.
1999-05 5-3-   Establishing the cumulative Firefighting Equipment/Building Fund.
        1999
1999-15 10-4-  Establishing a Medical Expense Repayment Fund (MERF).
        1999
2001-10 8-21-  Establishing the COIT Special Purpose Fund.
        2001
2002-10 7-15-  Establishing the County Emergency Management Fund.
        2002
2003-01 1-21-  Establishing the County Sheriff’s Department Enforcement Aid Fund.
        2003
2003-03 2-3-   Establishing a Child Support Impact Fund (CSIF).
        2003
2003-14 8-19-  Establishing the Electronic Map Generation Fund.
        2003
2003-17 9-2-   Establishing a Community Service Fund (CMS).
        2003
2004-04 2-17-  Establishing a Rainy Day Fund.
        2004
2004-05 3-1-   Establishing the Identification Card System Fund.
        2004
2004-07 5-18-  Establishing a Community Drug Program Fund (CDP).
        2004
2005-04 4-7-   Establishing a Inmate Work Program Fund.
        2005
2005-6  9-6-   Establishing the County Illegal Burning Fund.
        2005
2006-02 2-6-   Establishing the County Community Defense Fund.
        2006
2007-14 9-28-  Establishing a County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund.
        2007
2008-3  1-28-  Establishing the Community Correction Program Income Fund and the Community
        2008   Correction Grant Fund.
Council 3-18-  Amending Ord. 2004-04, establishing a Rainy Day Fund.
2008-06 2008
2008-14 12-1-  Establishing the County Property Maintenance Fund.
        2008
Council 5-19-
R.      2009   Establishing the County Animal Control Fund.
2009-05
2009-05 8-18-  Establishing the Sheriff Sale Fund.
        2009
2010-01 2-1-   Establishing the Prosecutor’s Special Fee Fund.
        2010
2010-02 2-1-   Establishing the Law Enforcement Fund (LEF).
        2010
2011-02 3-15-  Establishing the Luce Township Sewer Grant Fund.
        2011
2011-04 4-19-  Establishing the Luce Sewer Retainage Fund.
        2011
2012-02 2-6-   Establishing the Auditor’s Ineligible Deductions Fund and the DLGF Homestead
        2012   Property Database Fund.
Council 6-19-  Establishing the Enhanced Access Fund.
2012-09 2012
2013-02 3-5-   Establishing the Unsafe Building Fund.
        2013
2019-06 7-2-   Establishing the County Law Enforcement Student Engagement Fund.
        2019
R.      10-20- Establishing the CARES Act Grant Fund.
2020-15 2020
2021-07 4-6-   Establishing the American Rescue Plan Fund.
        2021
2023-02 2-21-  Establishing the Complex Litigation Opioid Settlement Fund Restricted and the
        2023   Complex Litigation Opioid Settlement Fund Unrestricted.
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
3-6-6-5                      32.13
3-25-3                       37.07
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.           112.99
4-21.5-3-7                   151.016
4-22-2                       70.15
5-3-1                        158.02
5-3-1-2                      150.19
5-4-1-18(b)                  31.07
5-10-6-1                     31.08
5-11-1-10                    37.04
5-11-1-21                    37.04
5-11-1-27                    37.04
5-11-1-27(1)                 37.04
5-11-1-27(e)                 37.04
5-14-1.5                     32.07;
                             34.17
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.           30.02
5-14-1.5-5(d)                34.43
5-14-3-2                     35.10;
                             35.99
5-14-3-3                     35.10
5-14-3-3(e)                  35.10
5-14-3-3.6                   35.10
5-14-3-3.6(e)                35.10
5-14-3-4                     35.10
5-14-3-6                     35.10
5-14-3-8(j)                  35.10
5-14-3-8(k)                  35.10
5-22                         35.29
5-22-7                       35.28
5-22-8-3                     35.29
5-22-9                       35.29
5-22-9-5                     35.29
5-22-14                      35.29
5-22-15                      35.29
6-1.1-12.1                   36.20;
                             36.21
6-1.1-12.1-3(e)              36.20
6-1.1-12.1-4.5               36.20
6-1.1-12-26.2                36.04
6-1.1-20.9-2                 36.03
6-2.5                        36.01
6-2.5-2                      36.01
6-9-18                       36.01
6-9-18-3                     36.01
6-9-18-5                     32.03
6-9-18-6                     32.03
9-13-2-77                    70.15
9-18-2.5                     71.01
9-20-2-1                     70.15
9-20-2-2                     70.15
9-20-17                      70.15
9-20-18                      70.15
10-8-2-1                     34.02
10-14-3                      34.19;
                             34.50
10-14-3-12                   34.40;
                             34.42
10-14-3-16                   34.02
10-14-3-17                   34.02;
                             34.04
10-14-3-17(c)                34.15
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B)          34.19
10-14-3-17(g)                34.44
10-14-3-17(h)                34.02
10-14-3-17(h)(2)             34.19
10-14-3-17(j)(5)             34.44
10-14-3-22                   34.04
10-14-3-22(b)(2)             34.45
10-14-3-24                   34.45
                             34.02;
10-14-3-29(a)                34.21;
                             34.40;
                             34.42
10-16-7-9                    34.04
10-16-7-10                   34.04
11-10-6                      35.29
13-11-2-158                  90.04
13-17-9                      90.08
13-17-9-1                    90.06
13-17-9-3                    90.06
13-18-12                     50.01
13-18-10-01 et seq.          157.014
13-21-3-1 through 13-21-3-22 32.11
13-25-2-5                    34.24
14-1-3                       71.02
14-1-3-1 et seq.             71.02
14-1-3-11                    71.02
14-1-3-14                    71.02
14-8-2-185                   71.01;
                             71.02
14-16-1-20(c)                71.01
14-16-1-21                   71.01
14-16-1-23                   71.01
14-16-1-23(a)(7)             71.01
14-16-1-24                   71.01
14-28-1                      154.05,
                             157.049
14-28-1-26                   154.05,
                             157.049
15-5-9-8(d)                  36.07
15-16-7-3                    32.06
15-16-7-9                    32.06
16-1-3-28                    35.09
16-1-4-22                    35.09
16-1-4-24                    35.09
16-1-5-1                     35.09
16-1-5-2                     35.09
16-20-1-14                   35.09
16-20-2-16                   112.02
16-27-2-1                    112.10
16-42-1-1 through 16-42-1-35 111.04
17-2-22-2                    35.09
17-2-22-3                    35.09
18-1-1-.5-7                  35.09
22-9-1-4 et seq.             92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.             92.01
22-9.5-2-2                   92.02
22-9.5-2-3                   92.02
22-9.5-2-4                   92.02
22-9.5-2-8                   92.02
22-9.5-2-9                   92.02
22-9.5-2-11                  92.02
22-9.5-2-13                  92.02
22-9.5-3                     92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.             92.09
22-9.5-4-8                   92.10
22-9.5-5                     92.02
22-9.5-5-1                   92.03
22-9.5-6                     92.02;
                             92.10
22-12                        151.016
22-12-1-3                    151.034
22-12-1-4                    151.003
22-12-1-5                    151.003
22-12-1-7                    151.003
22-12-1-14                   151.003
22-12-1-16                   151.003
22-12-1-17                   151.003
22-12-1-18                   151.003
22-12-1-22(b)(12)            151.018
22-12-1-24                   151.003
22-12-1-26                   151.003
22-12-7                      151.005
22-13                        151.016
22-13-2-3(b)                 151.017
22-13-2-6                    151.004
22-13-2-7                    151.016
22-13-2-7(b)                 151.017
22-13-2-9                    151.004
22-13-2-11                   151.005
22-14                        151.016
22-15                        151.016
22-15-3                      151.007
22-15-4                      151.004
24-4.6-2                     37.07
25                           112.10
25-14                        112.01
25-22.5                      112.01
27-1-15.6-6(d)               35.04
27-7-3-2                     35.04
27-7-3-6                     35.04
31-16-2                      32.08
31-37-1-2                    32.08
32-25-2-9                    151.003
32-29-7                      35.03
32-29-7-3                    35.03
32-29-7-3(h)                 35.03
33-37-4-1                    37.06
33-37-4-2                    37.06
33-37-8-7                    37.06
33-40-3                      32.08
33-40-6                      32.08
33-40-7-5                    32.08
34-28-5                      130.99
34-28-5-4                    71.99;
                             130.99
35-30-1-1                    113.03
35-30-4-1                    113.03
35-30-6-b                    113.03
35-30-7-1                    113.03
35-30-7-2                    113.03
35-31.5-2-75                 32.08
35-31.5-2-86                 130.01
35-41-1-17                   130.01
35-45-4-1                    114.06
35-45-21-4(f)                112.01
35-47-1-5                    130.01
35-47-8-1                    130.01
35-47-8-2                    130.01
35-47-8-3                    130.01
35-50-5-4                    35.27
36-1-3                       112.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-4-11                    151.045
36-1-5-4                     151.017;
                             151.018
36-1-6                       90.36
36-1-6-4                     151.015
36-1-6-9                     151.016
36-2-2                       34.02
36-2-2-8                     34.43
36-2-5-3(a)                  34.18
36-2-6-3                     35.28
36-2-7-10(f)                 35.04
36-2-7-10.1                  35.04
36-2-7-10.1(d)               35.04
36-2-7-10.1(h)               35.04
36-2-9-18                    35.07
36-2-13-15                   35.27
                             151.045;
                             154.01,
36-7-4                       157.003,
                             157.017,
                             157.045
36-7-4-405                   152.05
36-7-4-702                   157.003
36-7-4-1106                  157.003,
                             157.013
36-7-4-1500                  157.003
36-7-8-9                     151.016
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29   151.030
36-7-9-2                     90.28;
                             151.032
36-7-9-4                     151.032
36-7-9-7                     151.032;
                             151.999
36-7-9-8                     90.35
36-7-9                       151.999
36-7-9-17                    151.999
36-7-9-18                    151.999
36-7-9-19                    151.999
36-7-9-27                    151.999
36-7-9-28                    151.999
36-7-11.9                    32.10
36-7-12                      32.10
36-7-14                      32.05
36-7-14-6.1                  32.05
36-8-11-4                    150.02
36-8-12-2                    70.15
36-8-16 et seq.              35.06
36-8-16-2                    35.06
36-8-16-3                    35.06
36-8-16-4                    35.06
36-8-17                      151.011
36-9-27-48                   153.27
36-10-3                      32.04
                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
Council 85-3      - -         TSO Table X
1975-02           - -         TSO Table IX
2022-01           - -         TSO Table XI
-                 11-24-      32.02
Council           7-14-1975   TSO Table XII
Council           7-21-1981   TSO Table X
83-5              11-21-1983  TSO Table VII
Council 1984-3    5-15-1984   TSO Table VI
84-5              9-4-1984    TSO Table I
Council 84-7      9-24-1984   TSO Table VII
-                 8-29-1985   TSO Table X
-                 12-2-1985   TSO Table IV
-                 10-5-1987   32.09
-                 4-17-1989   TSO Table VI
90-1              2-5-1990    TSO Table VIII
Council 1992-2    2-18-1992   36.20;
                              36.21
1992-10           9-15-1992   TSO Table VIII
1992-14           12-7-1992   TSO Table VI
1993-5            7-2-1993    37.01
1995-8            11-6-1995   TSO Table VIII
-                 5-6-1996    TSO Table I
1997-01           1-2-1997    TSO Table X
Council 1997-01   1-2-1997    36.20
Council 1997-02   1-2-1997    TSO Table X
1997-03           1-23-1997   TSO Table X
1997-04           3-3-1997    TSO Table II
05                4-15-1997   32.12
1997-06           4-15-1997   TSO Table VI
1997-09           7-7-1997    TSO Table VI
1997-10           7-7-1997    TSO Table VI
1997-10           7-31-1997   TSO Table VI
Council 1997-12   8-19-1997   TSO Table X
1997-16           9-16-1997   31.06
Council 1998-02   2-17-1998   TSO Table X
1998-03           4-21-1998   37.07
1999-6            9-20-1999   110.03
Council 2000-4    7-18-2000   TSO Table X
2001-7            4-2-2001    TSO Table VI
2001-9            4-2-2001    TSO Table VI
2001-10           4-2-2001    TSO Table VI
2001-11           9-4-2001    TSO Table I
Council 2001-12-2 11-20-2001  TSO Table X
Council 2002-03   2-19-2002   TSO Table X
2002-10           12-2-2002   TSO Table VI
2003-03           3-18-2003   TSO Table VI
2003-05           4-1-2003    TSO Table VI
2003-11           6-17-2003   35.26
2004-05           5-3-2004    TSO Table VI
2005-06           4-7-2005    TSO Table VI
2005-12           8-1-2005    TSO Table I
2005-14           8-1-2005    37.05
Council 2006-05   8-15-2006   36.21
Council 2007-10   5-31-2007   TSO Table X
2007-15           11-5-2007   31.10
Council 2009-05   5-19-2009   TSO Table XII
Council 2009-06   6-16-2009   TSO Table X
Council 2009-07   7-21-2009   TSO Table X
Council 2010-01   1-5-2010    TSO Table X
Council 2010-02   1-19-2010   TSO Table X
Council 2010-03   2-2-2010    TSO Table X
Council 2010-04   2-16-2010   TSO Table X
2010-12           9-21-2010   TSO Table VIII
Council 2011-02   3-15-2011   TSO Table X
Council 2011-03   4-19-2011   TSO Table X
Council 2011-05   6-21-2011   TSO Table X
Council 2012-10   10-8-2012   TSO Table X
Council 2013-07   3-19-2013   TSO Table X
2013-15           8-6-2013    TSO Table VIII
Council 2013-16   8-20-2013   TSO Table X
Council 2014-2    3-3-2014    TSO Table X
Council 2014-03A  3-18-2014   TSO Table X
2015-01           6-16-2015   31.09
Council 2015-05   6-16-2015   TSO Table X
2015-06           7-2-2015    TSO Table IX
Council 2015-08   7-21-2015   TSO Table X
2016-02           4-5-2016    TSO Table VI
2016-03           7-5-2016    37.03
Council 2016-05   7-19-2016   TSO Table X
Council 2016-06   7-19-2016   TSO Table X
Council 2016-07   8-16-2016   TSO Table X
Council 2016-08   8-16-2016   TSO Table X
2016-09           9-6-2016    31.25
2016-11           10-18-2016  TSO Table IV
2016-13           12-20-2016  37.02
2017-02           8-15-2017   151.007
Council 2017-04   9-19-2017   TSO Table X
Council 2017-05   10-17-2017  TSO Table X
2017-07           11-7-2017   TSO Table VIII
2018-01           3-6-2018    TSO Table VI
Council 2019-08   10-15-2019  TSO Table X
Council 2019-10   12-17-2019  TSO Table X
Council 2020-16   8-18-2020   TSO Table X
Council 2020-14   9-15-2020   TSO Table X
2020-15           10-20-2020  TSO Table XII
Council 2021-02   3-15-2021   36.09
2021-03           5-18-2021   30.02
2021-09           9-7-2021    TSO Table VI
2022-01           - -         TSO Table XI
2025-01           1-14-2025   32.05
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
1970-1           - -         36.08;
                             36.99
1999-13          - -         32.08
2007-10          - -         153.01-
                             153.13
Council 2016-06A - -         TSO Table XII
Council          9-7-1954    TSO Table VI
287              9-8-1959    TSO Table VII
Council          7-14-1960   TSO Table VI
-                5-3-1967    TSO Table XI
1967-1           5-15-1967   TSO Table II
1972-1           5-1-1972    154.07
                             113.01-
76-1             2-20-1976   113.09;
                             113.99
78-2             8-1-1978    110.03;
                             110.99
1979-03          8-6-1979    35.09
79-1             10-1-1979   110.02;
                             110.99
80-3             8-4-1980    TSO Table I
-                12-1-1980   156.01
81-1             3-16-1981   51.01
-                6-15-1981   31.08
-                3-25-1982   TSO Table V
-                4-19-1982   TSO Table I
7-22-82          7-22-1982   TSO Table V
8-26-82          8-26-1982   TSO Table V
Council 82-2     11-16-1982  32.04
11-18-82         11-18-1982  TSO Table V
-                12-20-1982  TSO Table V
-                6-6-1983    TSO Table V
-                11-17-1983  TSO Table V
1984-1           2-13-1984   70.15;
                             70.99
-                5-7-1984    TSO Table V
-                5-21-1984   TSO Table V
-                5-21-1984   TSO Table V
-                5-21-1984   TSO Table V
-                6-18-1984   TSO Table V
-                6-18-1984   TSO Table V
-                8-6-1984    TSO Table V
-                8-6-1984    TSO Table V
-                9-4-1984    TSO Table V
-                9-4-1984    TSO Table V
-                9-4-1984    TSO Table V
84-8             10-22-1984  70.16;
                             70.99
-                12-3-1984   TSO Table V
-                3-3-1985    TSO Table V
-                3-4-1985    TSO Table V
-                4-1-1985    TSO Table V
-                6-3-1985    TSO Table V
-                10-7-1985   TSO Table V
85-8             12-2-1985   Ch. 72, Schd. I
1986-2           2-3-1986    31.06
-                6-2-1986    TSO Table V
-                6-2-1986    TSO Table V
-                10-6-1986   TSO Table V
-                10-6-1986   TSO Table V
-                2-2-1987    TSO Table V
-                2-26-1987   TSO Table V
87-2             3-2-1987    TSO Table V
87-3             3-16-1987   TSO Table V
87-6             9-8-1987    TSO Table V
87-6             11-2-1987   TSO Table X
88-1             2-1-1988    TSO Table V
-                12-5-1988   TSO Table V
-                12-27-1988  TSO Table V
1988-4           12-27-1988  TSO Table I
89-3             3-6-1989    71.02;
                             71.99
1989-4           3-20-1989   51.15-
                             51.19
-                4-3-1989    51.19
-                5-1-1989    TSO Table V
-                5-1-1989    TSO Table V
-                5-1-1989    TSO Table V
-                7-3-1989    TSO Table V
-                11-13-1989  TSO Table V
-                11-13-1989  TSO Table V
89-11            12-4-1989   32.06
Council 1990-2   2-20-1990   36.06
-                3-5-1990    TSO Table V
-                3-5-1990    TSO Table V
-                7-2-1990    51.16
-                8-27-1990   TSO Table V
-                8-27-1990   TSO Table V
1990-8           10-1-1990   TSO Table III
-                3-4-1991    TSO Table V
1991-4           6-3-1991    TSO Table V
1991-5           6-3-1991    TSO Table V
-                11-4-1991   TSO Table V
1991-9           12-2-1991   TSO Table V
1992-1           2-3-1992    TSO Table V
1992-2           2-3-1992    TSO Table III
1992-4           3-2-1992    TSO Table V
1992-5           4-6-1992    TSO Table V
1992-8           5-4-1992    TSO Table V
1992-16          8-3-1992    TSO Table V
1992-15          12-7-1992   TSO Table V
1993-1           2-1-1993    TSO Table V
1993-2           2-1-1993    TSO Table V
1993-2           2-1-1993    TSO Table II
1993-4A          2-1-1993    TSO Table V
1993-3           4-5-1993    32.11
1993-5           4-5-1993    TSO Table V
1993-6           5-3-1993    TSO Table V
1993-7           6-7-1993    TSO Table III
1993-8           7-2-1993    TSO Table V
1993-9           9-3-1993    TSO Table V
1993-10          9-3-1993    TSO Table V
1993-11          10-4-1993   TSO Table V
Council 1993-13  11-16-1993  35.06
1994-1           2-7-1994    TSO Table III
1994-4           4-4-1994    TSO Table III
1994-5           4-4-1994    32.03
1994-6           5-2-1994    TSO Table III
1994-8           5-3-1994    TSO Table V
-                5-17-1994   TSO Table V
Council 1994-3   6-1-1994    36.01;
                             TSO Table XII
-                6-6-1994    TSO Table V
1994-9           7-19-1994   152.01-
                             152.08
1994-10          7-19-1994   TSO Table I
-                8-1-1994    TSO Table V
-                8-1-1994    TSO Table V
-                10-3-1994   TSO Table V
1994-4           11-23-1994  TSO Table III
1995-5           6-20-1995   32.05
1995-6           7-3-1995    TSO Table III
1995-7           8-7-1995    35.05
-                10-2-1995   TSO Table V
-                11-6-1995   TSO Table V
1995-8           12- -1995   37.06;
                             TSO Table XII
-                12-4-1995   TSO Table V
-                1-2-1996    TSO Table V
1996-04          3-4-1996    TSO Table XII
1996-4           5- -1996    TSO Table XII
Council 1996-1-A 6-18-1996   TSO Table VI
1996-5           7-1-1996    TSO Table III
1996-6           7-1-1996    TSO Table III
1996-08          7-16-1996   TSO Table I
-                10-7-1996   TSO Table V
-                11-4-1996   TSO Table V
1996-13          11-4-1996   Ch. 72, Schd. I
                             34.01-
                             34.04; 34.15-
                             34.22;
1996-15          11-19-1996  34.24;
                             34.25; 34.40-
                             34.51;
                             34.99
1996-17          11-19-1996  Ch. 72, Schd. I
1996-19          12- -1996   70.01
-                12-2-1996   TSO Table V
1996-18          12-27-1996  153.26;
                             153.99
1997-03          1-2-1997    TSO Table V
1997-04          1-6-1997    TSO Table III
1997-05          1-23-1997   TSO Table X
1997-06          2-3-1997    TSO Table X
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
-                3-3-1997    TSO Table V
1997-12          3-18-1997   35.25
-                4-7-1997    TSO Table V
-                5-5-1997    TSO Table V
-                5-5-1997    TSO Table V
-                5-5-1997    TSO Table V
-                5-5-1997    TSO Table V
-                5-5-1997    TSO Table V
1997-13          6-2-1997    TSO Table III
Council 1997-14  6-17-1997   32.10
97-15            7-4-1997    TSO Table III
1997-16          8-19-1997   32.13
-                9-2-1997    TSO Table V
1997-9           9-22-1997   TSO Table II
1997-18          10-4-1997   TSO Table V
Council 1997-19  10-21-1997  TSO Table VI
1997-8           11-3-1997   TSO Table III
-                11-18-1997  TSO Table V
-                12-1-1997   TSO Table V
1998-02          2-2-1998    TSO Table V
1998-03          2-17-1998   34.23
                             111.02-
1998-06          4-6-1998    111.09;
                             111.99
98-08            4-21-1998   TSO Table III
1998-9           4-21-1998   150.02
10               8-3-1998    35.27;
                             TSO Table XII
1998-14          10-5-1998   TSO Table V
16               11-17-1998  Ch. 72, Schd. I
17               11-17-1998  Ch. 72, Schd. I
18               11-17-1998  Ch. 72, Schd. I
1998-15          11-17-1998  Ch. 72, Schd. II
1998-21          12-7-1998   Ch. 72, Schd. I
1998-22          12-7-1998   TSO Table V
1998-23          12-7-1998   TSO Table V
                             151.065-
1999-01          1-4-1999    151.070;
                             151.999
1999-03          1-4-1999    TSO Table V
1999-02          2-1-1999    TSO Table V
1999-07          4-20-1999   Ch. 72, Schd. I
1999-05          5-3-1999    TSO Table XII
1999-07A         5-3-1999    TSO Table V
1999-07B         5-3-1999    TSO Table III
1999-08          6-1-1999    110.01;
                             110.99
                             151.045-
1999-09          6-15-1999   151.054;
                             151.999
1999-9B          9-11-1999   TSO Table III
1999-15          10-4-1999   TSO Table XII
1999-16          11-1-1999   Ch. 72, Schd. I
1999-18          11-29-1999  TSO Table V
2000-1           2-7-2000    34.02
                             157.001-
                             157.017,
                             157.030,
                             157.031,
                             157.045-
                             157.050,
                             157.065,
                             157.075,
                             157.076,
                             157.090-
                             157.092,
                             157.105,
-                3-14-2000   157.106,
                             157.120,
                             157.121,
                             157.135-
                             157.137,
                             157.150,
                             157.151,
                             157.165,
                             157.166,
                             157.180,
                             157.181,
                             157.999,
                             Ch. 157, App. A
2000-5           5-1-2000    TSO Table V
2000-06          5-1-2000    TSO Table V
2000-7           7-3-2000    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-8           7-3-2000    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-9           8-15-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-10          8-15-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-11          8-15-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-12          8-15-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-13          9-19-2000   153.25
2000-14          10-17-2000  Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-15          10-17-2000  Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-16          11-21-2000  TSO Table III
2000-18          12-19-2000  Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-19          12-19-2000  Ch. 72, Schd. I
2000-20          12-19-2000  Ch. 72, Schd. I
-                2-5-2001    TSO Table V
-                2-5-2001    TSO Table V
2001-05          5-15-2001   TSO Table V
2001-07          6-19-2001   36.07
2001-8           8-6-2001    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2001-09          8-21-2001   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2001-10          8-21-2001   TSO Table XII
2001-11          11-5-2001   TSO Table V
2002-03          3-19-2002   130.01;
                             130.99
2002-09          6-18-2002   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2002-10          7-15-2002   TSO Table XII
2002-11          7-15-2002   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2002-12          8-5-2002    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2002-13          10-7-2002   35.28
Council 2002-14  12-17-2002  TSO Table VI
2003-01          1-21-2003   TSO Table XII
2003-02          1-21-2003   32.03
2003-03          2-3-2003    TSO Table XII
Council 2003-04  2-18-2003   35.27
Council 2003-5   3-10-2003   36.02
Council 2003-6   3-10-2003   36.03
2003-07          3-18-2003   130.02;
                             130.99
2003-09          4-14-2003   156.01
2003-10          7-15-2003   TSO Table V
2003-11          7-15-2003   TSO Table V
2003-12          7-15-2003   TSO Table V
2003-16          8-4-2003    157.105,
                             157.106
                             35.10;
2003-14          8-19-2003   35.99;
                             TSO Table XII
2003-17          9-2-2003    TSO Table XII
2003-19          10-2-2003   157.046
2003-20          12-1-2003   TSO Table V
2003-21          12-29-2003  32.07
2004-01          1-5-2004    TSO Table V
2004-02          2-2-2004    TSO Table V
                             112.01-
2004-03          2-2-2004    112.22;
                             112.99
2004-04          2-17-2004   TSO Table XII
2004-05          3-1-2004    TSO Table XII
2004-06          3-16-2004   TSO Table V
2004-07          5-18-2004   TSO Table XII
Council 2004-08  5-18-2004   36.01
                             111.01;
2004-11          10-19-2004  111.02;
                             111.03
2005-1           1-18-2005   TSO Table I
2005-04          4-7-2005    TSO Table XII
                             90.01-
2005-6           9-6-2005    90.12;
                             90.99;
                             TSO Table XII
2005-07          11-15-2005  Ch. 72, Schd. I
                             114.01;
                             114.02;
2005-08          11-15-2005  114.04-
                             114.09;
                             114.99
                             114.03;
2005-9           11-28-2005  114.05;
                             114.99
2005-10          11-28-2005  114.21
2005-11          12-28-2005  114.20-
                             114.40
                             151.001-
2006-1           1-17-2006   151.018;
                             151.999
2006-02          2-6-2006    TSO Table XII
                             114.20;
2006-03          2-16-2006   114.24;
                             114.33;
                             114.40
2006-10          9-22-2006   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2006-11          10-17-2006  TSO Table V
2006-12          10-17-2006  TSO Table V
Council 2006-13  12-19-2006  35.02
Council 2006-14  12-19-2006  31.07
2007-02          5-22-2007   TSO Table V
2007-03          5-31-2007   TSO Table X
2007-04          6-4-2007    157.065
2007-05          6-4-2007    114.99
2007-06          6-4-2007    157.014
2007-10          8-21-2007   157.999
2007-14          9-28-2007   35.01;
                             TSO Table XII
2007-15          12-18-2007  35.25
2007-16          12-18-2007  35.29
2008-01          1-7-2008    156.01
2008-3           1-28-2008   TSO Table XII
2008-04          2-4-2008    70.15;
                             70.99
2008-05          3-18-2008   156.01
Council 2008-06  3-18-2008   TSO Table XII
2008-07          5-20-2008   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2008-09          7-1-2008    TSO Table II
2008-11          8-5-2008    Ch. 72, Schd. I
2008-13          10-21-2008  TSO Table V
2008-15          11-18-2008  71.01;
                             71.99
2008-16          11-18-2008  156.01
                             90.25-
2008-14          12-1-2008   90.37;
                             90.99;
                             TSO Table XII
Council 2008-17  12-16-2008  36.01
2009-01          4-7-2009    TSO Table III
2009-03          8-18-2009   157.003,
                             157.013
2009-04          8-18-2009   157.137
2009-05          8-18-2009   35.03;
                             TSO Table XII
2009-06          10-6-2009   31.02
2009-07          12-29-2009  157.137
2010-01          2-1-2010    35.08;
                             TSO Table XII
2010-02          2-1-2010    TSO Table XII
2010-03          3-2-2010    TSO Table V
2010-04          3-2-2010    TSO Table V
2010-05          3-29-2010   31.04
                             92.01-
2010-06          3-29-2010   92.10;
                             92.99
2010-07          4-19-2010   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2010-08          7-20-2010   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2010-9           9-7-2010    130.03
2010-11          10-5-2010   TSO Table III
2010-12          10-19-2010  130.99
2011-01          2-14-2011   TSO Table V
2011-02          3-15-2011   TSO Table XII
2011-03          3-15-2011   TSO Table III
2011-03A         4-5-2011    TSO Table V
2011-04          4-19-2011   TSO Table XII
2011-10          9-20-2011   TSO Table III
2011-11          10-18-2011  TSO Table III
Council 2011-12  10-18-2011  35.06
2012-02          2-6-2012    TSO Table XII
2012-03          3-8-2012    Ch. 72, Schd. II
2012-07          5-1-2012    130.01
Council 2012-09  6-19-2012   TSO Table XII
2012-11          7-17-2012   TSO Table III
2012-13A         11-20-2012  92.02
                             151.030-
2013-02          3-5-2013    151.034;
                             151.999;
                             TSO Table XII
2013-04          6-4-2013    TSO Table V
2013-06          8-6-2013    TSO Table V
2013-09          11-5-2013   Ch. 72, Schd. III
2013-11          11-19-2013  TSO Table V
2013-12          12-2-2013   153.28
2014-01          2-3-2014    TSO Table V
2014-06          5-7-2014    TSO Table III
2014-12          6-17-2014   TSO Table V
2014-11          7-16-2014   130.02
2014-14A         9-2-2014    157.012
Council 2014-2   1-1-2015    36.01
                             154.01-
2015-03          4-21-2015   154.06;
                             154.99
2015-05          6-16-2015   157.003,
                             157.012
2015-06          7-7-2015    Ch. 72, Schd. I
Council 2015-08  10-20-2015  36.04
2015-09          11-17-2015  TSO Table V
2015-10          11-17-2015  TSO Table V
2016-01          2-1-2016    150.03;
                             150.99
2016-04          3-15-2016   31.03
2016-06          6-7-2016    TSO Table V
2016-07          6-21-2016   37.04
2016-11          11-1-2016   156.01
2016-12          11-1-2016   157.065,
                             157.075
2016-13          12-20-2016  TSO Table V
2017-01          2-21-2017   157.137
2017-02          6-6-2017    TSO Table X
2017-03          7-5-2017    Ch. 72, Schd. II
2017-04          8-1-2017    157.150
2017-06          9-19-2017   31.11
2018-03          4-3-2018    157.137
2018-07          8-7-2018    35.04
2018-08          8-7-2018    35.04
2018-10          10-2-2018   70.15
2018-11          10-2-2018   152.04
2018-09.1        12-18-2018  31.01
2018-10.1        12-18-2018  31.02
2019-01          2-4-2019    153.27
2019-03          6-4-2019    50.99;
                             110.02
2019-04          6-18-2019   35.07
2019-05          7-2-2019    51.02;
                             51.99
2019-06          7-2-2019    TSO Table XII
2019-07-01       7-19-2019   150.01
2019-09          12-20-2019  31.01
2020-01          3-3-2020    153.28
2020-02          3-3-2020    31.01
2020-04          7-21-2020   90.34
2021-03          2-16-2021   31.05
2021-04          3-16-2021   TSO Table III
2021-05          3-16-2021   TSO Table III
2021-07          4-6-2021    TSO Table XII
2021-09          6-1-2021    31.01
2021-12          11-16-2021  30.01
2021-13          11-16-2021  31.01
                             90.28;
2021-14          12-21-2021  90.29;
                             90.30
2022-02          4-5-2022    158.01-
                             158.15
2022-03          5-2-2022    35.30
2022-04          6-21-2022   35.25
2022-06          7- -2022    31.01
2022-07          10-4-2022   130.01
2022-08          10-18-2022  31.02
2023-01          2-21-2023   70.15
2023-02          2-21-2023   TSO Table XII
2023-03          4-18-2023   70.03
2023-06          7-18-2023   130.01,
                             130.99
2023-07          9-5-2023    Adopting Ordinance
2023-09          9-5-2023    32.11
                             155.001,
                             155.002,
                             155.015-
                             155.020,
2023-16          - -         155.030-
                             155.042,
                             155.060-
                             155.072,
                             155.999
2024-01          1-16-2024   50.01
2024-03          3-5-2024    36.01
2024-05          4-2-2024    70.15,
                             70.99
2024-06          4-16-2024   158.01-
                             158.15
2024-07          5-6-2024    TSO Table VIII
2024-08          8-20-2024   36.01
2024-09          8-20-2024   35.02
2024-10          10-15-2024  150.15-
                             150.21
2025-01          1-14-2025   32.05
                            
 
