SPRING LAKE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2004-2, passed 10-18-2004
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Spring Lake Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted.  Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL.  The Town Council.
      COUNTY.  Hancock County.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.  Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP.  The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters.  Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable.  If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations.  Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to an
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §     ).”
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.  In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
   Cross-reference:
      Local legislation regarding personnel or other town policies not included
in this title, see Title XVII Town property; firearms prohibited on, see
Ch. 131
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
Cross-reference:
   Budgets, see §§
33.30 through
33.32
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.020   Open meetings
   
31.021   Executive sessions
   
31.022   Notice of meetings
   
31.023   Agenda
   
31.024   Record of meetings
   
31.025   Quorum
   
31.026   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.040   Presiding officer
   
31.041   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.042   Absence of President
   
31.043   Duties of the President
   
31.044   Duties of Councilmembers
   
31.045   Seconding of motions required
   
31.046   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.047   Division of questions
   
31.048   Record of motions
   
31.049   Vote
   
31.050   Precedence of motion
   
31.051   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.052   Motion to adjourn
   
31.053   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.054   Motion to amend
   
31.055   Amendments
   
31.056   Reconsideration
   
31.057   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.058   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
31.059   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.060   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.080   Majority vote; when required
   
31.081   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.082   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.083   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004  PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.020  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.021  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing.  As used in this clause,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council up
to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials; and
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25.
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism.
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than 1 executive session
per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section.  The requirements
stated in §
31.024 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given.  The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.022  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
Cross-reference:
   Time and place of regular meetings, if established, see Title XVII
§ 31.023  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.024  RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.025  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.026  CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.040  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.026
§ 31.041  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President.  A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.042  ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership.  In the event that the absence of
the President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.043  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Councilmembers to exercise their
right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Councilmembers may consider and
pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.044  DUTIES OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than 5 minutes at any 1 time, except by
consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking.  The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion.  The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.045  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.046  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Councilmember seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.047  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.048  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.049  VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council.  When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Councilmembers is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.081
§ 31.050  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.051  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.052  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.053  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.054  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.055  AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.056  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.057  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.058  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting. 
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.059  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.060  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered, or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Councilmembers then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.080  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.081  TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Councilmembers adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.082  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council.  If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Councilmembers, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if the town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required.  If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect 2 weeks after the publication of the book
or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) of this section apply only if
the municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice
that the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance
referred to in division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.083  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer as Ordinance Violations Clerk, see §
34.02
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6.  The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02  ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or
3-10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office.  Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e), or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05  OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06  VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Councilmember, who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana Constitution
Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Councilmember serves as the ex officio
Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Councilmember:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Councilmember; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office.  A Town Councilmember may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-
1-7 with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state
to assist the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in
performing the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The agreement may not
last longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must
meet the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7.
   (D)   If an agreement cannot be reached under division (C) above, the Town
Council may enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.  The contract may not last longer than
the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20  APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council.  However,
before terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the
town for more than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training
requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9,
the Town Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures
prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23  SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24  DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals. 
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer.  He
or she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training requirements adopted
by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be dismissed only
if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25  BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.30   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.31   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.32   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01  APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council.  Each appropriation must be made
from the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02  ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) of this
section must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05  PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION
LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06  CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.30  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses, and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 33.31  PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year.  The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer.  The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.32  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 34:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02  VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03  DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04  SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. 
Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail,
or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines, see Title XVII
§ 34.05  RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06  DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07  FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08  COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09  DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B), all sums collected by the Violations Clerk as
civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the
town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01  CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02  FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect.
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill.
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.21   Obedience to signals
   
70.22   Interference with signals
   
70.23   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation regarding traffic and motor vehicles, see Title XVII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER.  A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing, 2 nontandem-
wheeled device that is designed to transport only 1 person and that has the
following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or 1
horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour when operated on a
paved level surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to
in division (1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing
170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana.  The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of 2 highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection.  If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled.  The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, or an electric personal assistive mobility device as those terms are
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. pt. 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm tractor
or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR.  An individual who operates a vehicle, motorboat, off-road
vehicle, or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET.  See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY.  A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE.  A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.21  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon,
or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.23  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Cruising prohibited
   
71.52   Posting of signs
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
   Local traffic schedules, see Title XVII
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Local designation of stop intersections, see Title XVII
§ 71.03  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Local designation of 1-way streets, see Title XVII
CRUISING
§ 71.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than 5 miles per hour, and the delay in movement is due to the
position of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING.  The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic
control point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control
point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE.  The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER.  The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the
Town Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE.  Any property
which is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a
street, alley, or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to
this subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT.  A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.51  CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited.  It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation.  Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic control point within the next succeeding 4 hours will be a violation of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations.  Any person who, after having received a
written warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a
passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next
succeeding four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
   Local parking regulations, see Title XVII
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01  NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon  The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY.  Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation.  If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing.  In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD.  A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU.  The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY.  The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER.  The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department.  (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PARTS.  All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE.  A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(c))
§ 90.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C), the owner of an abandoned vehicle
or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of the costs
incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle or the parts
under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05  VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing service shall notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section.  The notification
must include the name, signature, and address of the person that owns or holds
a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs, and the
date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06  PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) of this chapter to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C), and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns or
controls the private property, and a telephone number to contact for
information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) of this section, in an emergency
situation a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately.  As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) of
this section shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department, and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) of this section is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts.  Photographs may be taken to describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard.  A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal, or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least 2 years.  If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or
parts.  After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be
towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section. 
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D), or
90.07(C) or (D), the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing service shall
conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of vehicle
identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the
vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service.
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid.
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09  TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10  LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11  LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §
90.06(C), (D), and (E), §
90.08, and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.20   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.21   Running at large prohibited
   
91.22   Dogs in heat; confinement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it
to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02  LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20  PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22  DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.03   Filing complaint
   
92.04   Notice of violations
   
92.05   Appeals
   
92.06   Abatement by town
   
92.07   Liability
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
WEEDS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER.  The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION.  The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES.  Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium], bur cucumber and shattercane), but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, and crops.
§ 92.02  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.03  FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 92.04  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition.  The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency.  This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail.  The notice shall provide
that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the
designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.05  APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice,  excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops, or is
not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Councilmembers in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.06  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.07  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorneys’
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this chapter within the time specified
in this chapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of the
bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification.
The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the
property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
chapter within the time specified in this chapter, the town may bring an action
in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any additional
costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees. If the town obtains a judgment under this division, the town
may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or personal
property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been  obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50  feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for
each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond  for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Businesses required to be licensed, see Title XVII
   License fees, see Title XVII
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year.  Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than 1 year.
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   License fee, see Title XVII
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been convicted
of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time he or she
is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   [RESERVED]
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01  PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02  SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or
park.
§ 131.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while
on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
§ 150.01  STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 150.02  STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation designating an enforcement authority, see Title XVII
TITLE XVII: LOCAL LEGISLATION
   Chapter
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ADMINISTRATION
      
172.   PUBLIC WORKS
      
173.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
174.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
175.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
176.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
177.   LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 170:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 171:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
171.01   AMBER ALERT policy
   
171.02   Domestic violence policy
Officials; General Provisions
   
171.15   Elective officers; appointed officials
   
171.16   Notice of election
   
171.17   Oath of officials
   
171.18   Bonds of officials
   
171.19   Filling vacancies in office
   
171.20   Vacancies in Town Council or elective offices
   
171.21   Mileage expense
   
171.22   Marshal’s auto expense
Street Commissioner
   
171.35   Office created
   
171.36   Street and park inspections
   
171.37   Reports
   
171.38   Authority
   
171.39   Emergency
   
171.40   Appointment
   
171.41   Salary
Community Building
   
171.55   Name and location and mailing address
   
171.56   Town Council meetings
   
171.57   Use, operation and maintenance
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 171.01  AMBER ALERT POLICY.
   (A)   The County Sheriff will be the first to respond to the scene and
determine if the situation merits an AMBER ALERT.
   (B)   Those conditions are as follows:
      (1)   The child must be under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The child must be believed to have been abducted and in danger of
serious bodily harm or death; and
      (3)   There must be enough descriptive information to believe the
broadcast will help, and sufficient information is available to disseminate to
the public that could assist in locating the child, alleged suspect or the
alleged suspect’s vehicle.
   (C)   The County Sheriff will notify the dispatch/communications supervisor.
This supervisor will then make the appropriate notifications within the
Department that will ensure a full response to the incident.  In the event an
AMBER ALERT is called, a significant effort will be made to notify all officers
and reserves within Hancock County in the effort to recover the abducted child.
   (D)   Notification will be made to the state police for dissemination to the
media by emergency alert system. The HCSD detective sending the information to
the state police will ensure that a picture of the victim and/or of the suspect
and the suspect vehicle is e-mailed. In addition, an e-mail will be sent to
Crime Stoppers of Indiana for inclusion in their web site.
   (E)   An AMBER ALERT activation will use all available resources, including
but not limited to search groups, the County Sheriff’s Department, Greenfield
Fire Department, ISP helicopter and the like, in order to bring about a
successful conclusion to the event, and that search group will be notified by
the county’s dispatch when requested.
   (F)   Once the event has drawn to a conclusion, critical incident debriefing
will take place with all participants involved in an effort to improve the
delivery of services during this type of investigation. All forms and
information will be forwarded to HCSD to then be forwarded to the Missing
Children’s Clearing House for record-keeping.
(Prior Code, § 75.01)
§ 171.02  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE POLICY.
   Whenever practical, this text is taken from the County Sheriff’s Department
Policy.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC OR FAMILY VIOLENCE.  Except for an act of self-defense, the
occurrence of at least one of the following acts committed by a family or
household member:
         (a)   Attempting to cause, threatening to cause or causing physical
harm to another family or household member;
         (b)   Placing a family or household member in fear of physical harm;
and/or
         (c)   Causing a family or household member to involuntarily engage in
sexual activity by force, threat of force or duress.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER.
         (a)   A person who is a current or former spouse;
         (b)   A person who is dating or has dated;
         (c)   A person who is engaged or was engaged in a sexual relationship;
         (d)   A person who is related by blood or adoption;
         (e)   A person who is related or was related by marriage;
         (f)   A person who has an established legal relationship or previously
established a legal relationship:
            1.   As a guardian,
            2.   As a ward;
            3.   As a custodian;
            4.   As a foster parent; or
            5.   In a capacity similar to those listed in divisions (f)1.
through (f)4. above.
         (g)   A person who has a child in common; or
         (h)   A minor child of a person in a relationship described in
divisions (a) through (g) above.
   (B)   Initial officer(s) response.
      (1)   Arrival at the scene.
         (a)   Officers responding to the scene of domestic violence calls
shall exercise extreme caution upon  arriving on the scene and confronting the
participants. If possible, two officers should be dispatched to the scene;
         (b)   Determine location or condition of victim(s), suspect(s),
witness(es) and any other people at the scene;
         (c)   Determine if any weapons are involved and identify potential
weapons in the surroundings;
         (d)   Separate victim(s), suspect(s) and witness(es) thereby securing
the scene and restoring order;
         (e)   Assess for any injuries which include internal injuries and
complaint of pain. Administer first aid and request emergency medical services
if necessary;
         (f)   Identify all occupants/witnesses on the premises; and
         (g)   Determine if a crime has been committed.
      (2)   On-scene investigation.
         (a)   Interview all participants, obtaining their addresses, phone
numbers and identifiers. Keep them separated if possible;
         (b)   Interview all witnesses, including children obtaining their
addresses, phone numbers and identifiers. Keep them separated if possible;
         (c)   Take photographs and document any injuries;
         (d)   Document the physical appearance and demeanor of all parties
involved (i.e., torn clothing, signs of crying, being scared and the like).
Photograph any torn or bloodied clothing;
         (e)   Determine if probable cause exists to make an arrest. Factors to
consider include but are not limited to:
            1.   Visible signs of injury or impairment to the victim(s);
            2.   Complaint of pain by the victim(s);
            3.   Circumstantial evidence such as disheveled clothing,
overturned furniture or broken household items;
            4.   Threats overheard by an officer related to the victim(s) or
witness(es) or the suspect(s); and
            5.   Interview of victim(s), suspect(s) and witness(es). Note: the
officer should not consider the victim’s opposition to arrest as a factor but
should emphasize to both the victim and suspect that any criminal action is
initiated by the state and not the victim.
         (f)   If the officer, from his or her investigation, believes that a
battery has occurred and determines that probable cause exists an arrest should
made for battery at that time;
         (g)   If there is evidence of mutual battering and the officer
concludes that one party was acting in self defense, that party should not be
arrested;
         (h)   If an arrest is made a written or recorded statement should be
taken from both the victim and suspect (if possible) along with any witnesses;
         (i)   Law enforcement officers may confiscate and remove a firearm,
ammunition or a deadly weapon from the scene if the officer has:
            1.   Probable cause to believe that a crime involving domestic
violence or family violence has occurred;
            2.   A reasonable belief that the firearm, ammunition or deadly
weapon:
               a.   Exposes the victim to an immediate risk of serious bodily
injury; or
               b.   Was an instrumentality of the crime involving domestic or
family violence.
            3.   Observed the firearm, ammunition or deadly weapon at the scene
during the response. (If a firearm, ammunition or deadly weapon is removed from
the scene, the officer shall  provide for the safe storage of the firearm,
ammunition or deadly weapon during the pendency of a proceeding related to the
arrest.)
         (j)   Document and photograph any damage to property as the result of
the incident;
         (k)   Document, photograph and recover any physical evidence at the
scene;
         (l)   Document your beliefs as to alcohol or drug usage by the suspect
or victim;
         (m)   Document the known history between the parties;
         (n)   Ensure that children and pets in the home have not also been
abused; and
         (o)   On scene uniformed officers may request the assistance of a
detective or evidence technician if necessary to assist with the investigation.
      (3)   Effecting the arrest.
         (a)   The responding officer should take the accused into custody as
soon as the officer determines that a warrantless arrest is appropriate. If the
suspect(s) has left or fled the scene, the officer should initiate the process
to locate and apprehend the suspect(s) as soon as possible. If the suspect
cannot be located, a warrant should be filed and executed.
         (b)   When the accused is a juvenile (under the age of 18), the
provisions of this policy shall be fully applicable. The County Juvenile
Probation Department shall be contacted in every case involving the arrest of a
juvenile for domestic violence. The juvenile shall be processed using current
juvenile policies.
         (c)   A battery affidavit may be completed and signed by the victim in
cases where there are no physical signs of injury, (i.e., hair pulling, pushing
and the like) and the victim wishes to pursue criminal charges. A battery
affidavit is not necessary on cases involving obvious signs of physical injury
to the victim.
      (4)   Case report.
         (a)   The responding officer shall obtain a County Sheriff’s
Department case number and initiate a case report on all reports of domestic
violence including verbal disagreements. The report should contain the
following:
            1.   Names, addresses, telephone numbers and identifiers on all
persons involved including  victim(s), suspect(s) and witness(es). Be certain
to include work, cell phone and pager numbers;
            2.   A statement of the relationship between all participants;
            3.   What, if any, weapons were used or threatened to be used;
            4.   Documentation of all injuries both visible and non-visible;
            5.   Documentation of all physical evidence;
            6.   Documentation of damage to property;
            7.   Any evidence substantiating either drug or alcohol abuse;
            8.   Documentation of any voluntary statements made;
            9.   Names and ages of all children living in the home (even if not
present);
            10.   Any known prior incidents or history between the parties; and
            11.   A complete narrative including dates, times and facts
surrounding the incident including final disposition.
         (b)   The completed report shall immediately be submitted for review
and processing pursuant to policies regulating case reports.
         (c)   All completed case reports of domestic violence shall be
forwarded to the Investigations Division Commander for review.
      (5)   Final disposition.
         (a)   Any case report taken for domestic violence must contain a final
disposition:
            1.   Criminal arrest made;
            2.   One participant voluntarily left;
            3.   Mediation; and
            4.   No action taken.
         (b)   Whether or not an arrest is made, the responding officer should
not leave the scene of the incident until the situation is under control and
the likelihood of further violence has been minimized. The officer shall stand
by for a reasonable time while the victim(s) gather necessities for short-term
absence from the home, such as clothing, medication and necessary documents.
         (c)   Whether or not an arrest is made, the responding officer shall
provide any victim of domestic violence a copy of their Victims Rights (I.C.
35-40-5) and information concerning services and shelters in this area (i.e.,
Hope House, Alternatives Inc., Intervention Hot Lines and the like).
      (6)   “Duty to report.” I.C. 31-33-7-7: when a law enforcement agency or
officer receives a report or has reason to believe that a child may be a victim
of child abuse or neglect a report shall immediately be communicated to the
local Child Protection Service Agency.
(Prior Code, § 76.01)
OFFICIALS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 171.15  ELECTIVE OFFICERS; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elective officers of the town, elected in accordance with the
provisions of the state election laws and I.C. 36-5-2-1 et seq. and 36-5-6-1 et
seq., shall be:
      (1)   The members of the Town Council; and
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Council may appoint the following officials:
      (1)   Street Commissioner;
      (2)   The Town Marshal; and
      (3)   Boards, commissions officers and other employees pursuant to the
provisions of the laws in effect and as hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 20.01)
§ 171.16  NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   The election inspectors shall make a certified statement, over their own
signatures, of the persons elected to fill the several offices in the town and
file the same with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county, within ten
days from the day of the election.
(Prior Code, § 20.02)
§ 171.17  OATH OF OFFICIALS.
   The members of the Town Council and other officers-elect shall, within ten
days after the beginning of their term, take and subscribe, before some person
authorized to administer the same, the usual oath or affirmation for the
faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices.
(Prior Code, § 20.03)
§ 171.18  BONDS OF OFFICIALS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and Marshal of the town shall, before commencement of
their terms of office, each and severally, give bond, payable to the state,
with surety to the approval of the Town Council, in such an amount each as the
Town Council shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 20.04)
§ 171.19  FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies only to filling those vacancies concerning which
the person who last held the vacated office was elected to that office at the
most recent election, or was selected for that office under this section.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council, with the approval of the Town
Council, shall appoint, as soon as is reasonably possible, an individual to
fill that vacancy.
   (C)   Any person who assumes the duties of any vacant office under this
section has and may exercise all of its rights, powers and duties, is entitled
to the compensation fixed for that office and is subject to all the liabilities
of that office.
(Prior Code, § 20.05)
§ 171.20  VACANCIES IN TOWN COUNCIL OR ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   Any vacancy occurring in the Town Council, or in any other elective office
of the town, shall be filled by appointment by the Town Council, at a special
meeting of the Town Council, called for that purpose, of which meeting not less
than five days’ notice in writing shall be given to each member of the Town
Council by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town; but such appointments shall extend
beyond the remainder of that term.
(Prior Code, § 20.06)
§ 171.21  MILEAGE EXPENSE.
   Town officials shall be paid and allowed the rate per mile that is currently
allowed by the IRS.  The mileage will be calculated on an official state
highway map from miles traveled (outside of the Town) in the course of carrying
out the business of the town. Claims for payment shall be submitted to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town on claim forms and shall be verified.
(Prior Code, § 26.01)
§ 171.22  MARSHAL’S AUTO EXPENSE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall be allowed an auto expense account amounting to
$520 per year.
   (B)   The auto expense shall be drawn upon by the Marshal when needed.   
(Prior Code, § 26.02)  (Ord. 1881-3, passed 3-9-1981)
STREET COMMISSIONER
§ 171.35  OFFICE CREATED.
   The office of Street Commissioner is hereby created.
(Prior Code, § 24.01)
§ 171.36  STREET AND PARK INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to:
   (A)   Make routine inspections of the streets, ditches, culverts, bridges,
signage and any and all conditions within or affecting the right-of-way area of
the streets of the town, i.e., repair needed, sign replacement or repair, bad
trees and the like; and
   (B)   Make routine inspections of park facilities, including playground
equipment, tables, benches, building exterior and any and all conditions within
or affecting individual public safety of the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 24.02)
§ 171.37  REPORTS.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall report any condition found by inspection
or reported by citizen complaints in the area described under §
171.36(A) and (B) to the Town Council.
   (B)   The report shall include the recording of dates of inspections, or
complaints and the day and time of informing any one Town Council member.
   (C)   Recording of complaints shall include the name, address and telephone
of that person making the complaint and if injuries are involved, the name of
person/persons injured.
   (D)   Recording of repairs, maintenance and snow removal or any condition
identified in §
171.36(A) and (B).
(Prior Code, § 24.03)
§ 171.38  AUTHORITY.
   The Street Commissioner shall order and supervise any work required, when
authorized by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 24.04)
§ 171.39  EMERGENCY.
   Snow removal and street salting shall be considered an emergency and the
Street Commissioner shall be responsible for contacting the Town Council
authorized contractor at his or her discretion.
(Prior Code, § 24.05)
§ 171.40  APPOINTMENT.
   The office of Street Commissioner shall be filled by appointment by the Town
Council in the same manner that the office of Town Marshal may be filled.
(Prior Code, § 24.06)
§ 171.41  SALARY.
   The salary of the Street Commissioner shall be established by ordinance and
provided for by funds budgeted and appropriated in either the Motor Vehicle,
Highway Fund and/or the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 24.07)  (Ord. 1988-1, passed 9-12-1988)
COMMUNITY BUILDING
§ 171.55  NAME AND LOCATION AND MAILING ADDRESS.
   Spring Lake Community Building, located at the southeast corner of East
Drive and Hillside Drive. Physical address 2667 W. Hillside Drive, Greenfield
IN 46140.  Mailing address: Mrs. Diana Johnson, Clerk-Treasurer of Spring Lake,
2972 W. Sycamore Drive, Greenfield, IN 46140.
(Prior Code, § 28.01)
§ 171.56  TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The monthly meeting of the Town Council shall be at the Community Building
on the third Monday of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard
Time).
(Prior Code, § 28.02)  (Ord. passed 1-1-1993)
§ 171.57  USE, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In order to protect the interests of all residents, taxpayers and all
others who have a vested interest in the operation and maintenance of the
Spring Lake Community Building, the following rules shall govern its use,
operation and maintenance:
      (1)   Authorized key holders to the building.   Keys shall be furnished
to the Town Council, including the Clerk-Treasurer, Street Commissioner, the
Town Marshal and to the seven Directors of the Spring Lake Men’s Club, Inc.; to
be held by them only during their official term of office, but shall be
considered always to remain the property of the town. Duplicate keys are only
to be made if approved by the Town Council. The above-mentioned Spring Lake
Community Building shall be referred to as “the building” in this section.
      (2)   Authority for use of the building.
         (a)   Permanent and regular use of the building shall be reserved for
the Town Council and the Spring Lake Men’s Club and they may maintain offices
to perform and conduct their regular duties and activities and store and lock
their records and equipment in appropriate places in the building.
         (b)   The Spring Lake Men’s Club, Inc. has provided funds for the
acquisition of the Community Center Lots and for construction of the building,
in recognition of this contribution and to further the activities of the club,
the entire south half of the lower floor is hereby designated as the recreation
room. It shall be reserved for, controlled and maintained by said club for its
use and activities. Such use shall be restricted to active members of the Men’s
Club, members’ immediate family and limited to three guests per active member.
         (c)   Distribution of keys to recreation room shall be supervised and
controlled by the Men’s Club with the understanding that any issuance of said
key(s) permits the bearer access to the recreation room only. Entry to any
other part of the building must be by permission as prescribed in these rules
and regulations governing the use of the building.
         (d)   The Town Council may give permission to civic groups of this
town for the use of the building upon specifically designated occasions. Cost
for this use may be determined by the Town Council and charged accordingly to
existing circumstances and such money shall be deposited for use in the town’s
General Fund.
         (e)   The Town Council shall control the use of the building so that
its use shall be restricted to its original purpose of providing a place for
activities of town residents and/or property owners and their guests, rather
than groups or individuals outside the town.
         (f)   Use of the building shall be coordinated with the Clerk-
Treasurer for availability.
         (g)   Any person or persons meeting the requirements of being an adult
(one who has passed his or her twenty-first birthday) Spring Lake property
owner desiring to use the building in said town shall first check with the
Clerk-Treasurer for an available date. No earlier than 24 hours before the date
wanted, and after approval has been given, the person applying shall appear
before the Clerk - Treasurer, sign a guarantee of liability form, pay a minimum
fee of $40, plus liability deposit. It is understood that if the use of the
kitchen is desired, this shall be indicated in advance. The use of the
recreation room, (the south half of the lower floor) is never authorized by
issuance of this permit.
         (h)   The building and grounds are to be vacated not later than 12:00
local time. The key is to be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer not later than 12:
00 local time of the day following use of the building.
   (B)   It is part of the permit agreement that the building and grounds will
be left in a condition as good as when first occupied by permittee.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that the Clerk-
Treasurer is compelled to issue a permit. The decision shall be that of the
Clerk-Treasurer as to whether the permit shall be issued.
   (D)   The Town Council retains the right to adjust permit fees whenever, in
the opinion of the Council, it seems necessary to do so.
(Prior Code, § 28.03)  (Ord. passed 10-20-2003)
CHAPTER 172:  PUBLIC WORKS
Section
Garbage, Rubbish, Ashes and Filth
   
172.01   Definitions
   
172.02   Property to be kept free from rubbish or refuse
   
172.03   Throwing refuse on lake or rubbish on streets
   
172.04   Disposal of dead carcasses
   
172.05   Garbage placed outdoors for collection
Transportation and Disposal of Waste Material
   
172.20   Requirements for vehicles
   
172.21   Exception for private automobiles
   
172.22   Waste disposal or transfer stations
Storm Sewer System
   
172.35   Identification of system
   
172.36   Purpose and limitations
   
172.37   Materials used
   
172.38   Operator in charge
   
172.39   Closing or damaging culverts
GARBAGE, RUBBISH, ASHES AND FILTH
§ 172.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  Food waste and refuse of a similar nature.
   WASTE MATERIALS.  All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes including but
not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, household wastes, industrial and
construction wastes, and all material disposable at waste disposal and transfer
stations and locations in the town.
(Prior Code, § 54.01)
§ 172.02  PROPERTY TO BE KEPT FREE FROM RUBBISH OR REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying, or having the
use and control of, any lot or building in the town to throw or deposit, or
permit to remain upon, in or about the lot or building any kind of refuse or
rubbish, manure or other unwholesome thing or material.
   (B)   Any person owning any lot or building or having the use and control
thereof, within the limits of the corporation, shall be required to keep the
lot or building, and everything pertaining thereto, in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (C)   No person shall store, place or dispose on his or her lot or building
or the lot or building of another, or permit to accumulate on his or her lot or
building, any solid waste in such a manner whereby it will become a rodent or
insect harborage or breeding place, or create a health menace, and unsanitary
condition, or nuisance.
   (D)   On 24 hours’ notice given by the Marshal or other official designated
by the Council, any person owning or occupying, or having the use and control
of, any lot or building on which refuse or rubbish, manure, solid waste or
other unwholesome material has accumulated shall be required to remove it
immediately.
(Prior Code, § 54.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 172.03  THROWING REFUSE ON LAKE OR RUBBISH ON STREETS, ALLEYS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to remain any
refuse or rubbish, manure or other unwholesome thing or material in the lake or
upon any of the streets, alleys or other public property within the town.
(Prior Code, § 54.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 172.04  DISPOSAL OF DEAD CARCASSES.
   (A)   All dead carcasses found within the town shall be removed by the owner
or by the persons responsible for the existence of such carcasses.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal, or other official designated
by the Council, to notify the owner or other responsible person and to order
the removal of the carcass.
      (2)   If the owner or other person responsible shall refuse to comply
with the order then the carcass shall be removed at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   If the owner of any carcass found in the town is not known then it
shall be the duty of the Marshal or other official designated by the Council to
remove and dispose of it.
(Prior Code, § 54.04)
§ 172.05  GARBAGE PLACED OUTDOORS FOR COLLECTION.
   Garbage placed outdoors for collection or disposal shall be kept in proper
garbage containers of metal or other suitable material covered with protective
lids.
(Prior Code, § 54.05)
TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE MATERIALS
§ 172.20  REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle or motor vehicle shall be used to transport waste materials
in the town unless the waste materials are entirely enclosed within vehicles
having enclosed bodies on all sides with watertight beds.
   (B)   Vehicles meeting these requirements except that an opening remains at
the top side of vehicle may not transport waste materials without being covered
securely with a solid waterproof cover over the top opening to screen the waste
material from view and to hold and secure the waste material in the vehicle.
   (C)   Waste materials in paper, cloth or plastic bags, or uncovered barrels
or cans, or similar containers must also be so covered.
(Prior Code, § 54.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 172.21  EXCEPTION FOR PRIVATE AUTOMOBILES.
   Section
172.20 shall not prevent any person from transporting waste material in a
private automobile from his or her own household to or through the town;
however, waste materials must be transported entirely within the confines of
the enclosed vehicle and meet the requirements of §
172.20 if such load is loose or leaks.
(Prior Code, § 54.07)
§ 172.22  WASTE DISPOSAL OR TRANSFER STATIONS.
   Vehicles and motor vehicles transporting waste material to a waste disposal
or transfer station or location in violation of §
172.20 shall not be permitted to remain on or unload at any waste disposal or
transfer station or location in the town, and the owner, or person holding
under the owner, agent, employee or other person responsible for the premises
of any town waste disposal or transfer station or location, shall not permit a
vehicle in violation of §
172.20 to remain or unload.
(Prior Code, § 54.08)
STORM SEWER SYSTEM
§ 172.35  IDENTIFICATION OF SYSTEM.
   The storm sewer system shall include all sewers or drains serving any
portion of the town and having no connection with a sanitary sewer system or
any part thereof and shall be used for surface water drainage only.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)  (Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1948)
§ 172.36  PURPOSE AND LIMITATIONS.
   The storm sewer system, wherever it is available, shall be for the purpose
of providing an outlet for all storm and surface water and wherever possible
shall be used for sub-drainage.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)  (Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1948)
§ 172.37  MATERIALS USED.
   The size, kind, quality and location of materials used for all storm sewer
drains shall be subject to the approval of the Town Council or the Street
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)  (Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1948)
§ 172.38  OPERATOR IN CHARGE.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner, under the direction of the Town Council,
shall have charge of all storm sewers, together with all appurtenances
belonging thereto, and shall be charged with the duty of caring for same in
whatever manner and at whatever time shall be necessary for the proper
functioning of any or all parts of the system or systems.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer or any other employees of the town, while employed
by said town, shall not perform any labor or use or permit to be used any
materials belonging to said town, for the benefit of any private sewer or drain
serving the premises of any individual.
   (C)   The term public storm sewer or drain shall mean the main lines of
sewers or drains located in the public streets or alleys, and shall not be
construed to mean a branch or lateral sewer or drain serving the premises of
any individual.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)  (Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1948)
§ 172.39  CLOSING OR DAMAGING CULVERTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to close,
stop up, dam up, change the course of and/or damage any culvert, drainage
ditch, drainage tile or bridge across or along any of the public streets in the
town that have been established or may be established, without the written
consent of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)  (Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1948)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 173:  TRAFFIC CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
173.01   Authority of Police and Fire department officials
   
173.02   Required obedience to Traffic Code
   
173.03   Obedience to police officials
   
173.04   Public employees
Miscellaneous Traffic Rules
   
173.15   Stop signs
   
173.16   Blocking intersections
Speed Regulations
   
173.30   Speed limits
   
173.31   Traveling lower than speed limits
   
173.32   Proof of negligence
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
173.45   Stopping, standing or parking on streets
   
173.46   Standing or parking to display, wash or repair vehicles
   
173.47   Authority
   
173.48   Parking restrictions
   
173.49   Community center parking
   
173.50   Violations
Traffic Schedules
   
173.65   Stop streets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 173.01  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   Officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in conformance with
traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire or emergency or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police or Fire Department
may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the provisions of the
traffic laws.
(Prior Code, § 40.05)
§ 173.02  REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or to fail to perform
any act required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.03  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 40.07)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.04  PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic code
or by state statute, or laws of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 40.09)
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC RULES
§ 173.15  STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected upon a highway intersecting a through street at
the entrance thereto or at the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering
the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer or
traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 41.30)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.16  BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection unless there is sufficient space on
the other side of the intersection to accommodate the vehicle he or she is
operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 41.31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 173.30  SPEED LIMITS
   When no special hazard exists, the following speed shall be lawful, but any
speed in excess of this limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is
not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful: 25 mph upon or along any street.
(Prior Code, § 41.01)  (Ord. passed 8-9-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.31  TRAVELING LOWER THAN SPEED LIMITS.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing limits
shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary
to avoid colliding with other persons, vehicles or other conveyances on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 41.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.32  PROOF OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Sections
173.30 and
173.31 shall not be construed to relieve a plaintiff in any civil action from
the burden of proving negligence upon the part of the defendant as the
proximate cause of an accident.
(Prior Code, § 41.03)
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 173.45  STOPPING. STANDING OR PARKING ON STREETS.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a
street, in a manner or under conditions as to leave available less than ten
feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, or traffic
signs or signals, or a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 42.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.46  STANDING OR PARKING TO DISPLAY, WASH OR REPAIR VEHICLES.
   No vehicle owner or operator shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway
for the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or for washing, greasing or
repairing the vehicle for hire, except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 42.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.47  AUTHORITY.
   The use of any area suitable for the parking of any type of vehicle,
including, but not limited to, any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle,
truck, trailer, semi-trailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, house car and
motor bicycle is subject to the following restrictions in the various
designated areas in the town, which are under the jurisdiction of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 43.01)  (Ord. 1973-1, passed 4-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.48  PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   On any such designated areas as streets and drives, unless posted as no
parking areas, parking shall be limited to areas where a safe clearance remains
for passing for normal vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, such
vehicles as trucks and school buses.
(Prior Code, § 42.02)  (Ord. 1973-1, passed 4-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.49  COMMUNITY CENTER PARKING.
   None of the area known as the Community Center, which is located on the
original plat of the town on the three lots numbered 120 - 121 - 122, is part
of the street system of the town. The use of the parking areas which is part of
the Community Center is restricted to the use of persons using the Community
Building, using the Community Picnic Area, using the Community Play Grounds,
using the Spring Lake beaches, fishing in Spring Lake, and to guests of
residents of the town when given permission to use same. Such permission shall
only apply for a specific instance and shall never be given for a period in
excess of two days.
(Prior Code, § 43.03)  (Ord. 1973-1, passed 4-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 173.50  VIOLATIONS.
   Any vehicle found in violation of §§
173.47 through
173.49 shall be towed away, and it shall be the responsibility of the owner of
such vehicle to pay all costs resulting from this removal, including towing,
storage, labor and all court costs resulting because of the enforcement of any
and all parts of this code. (See § 10.99 for additional penalties.)
(Prior Code, § 43.99)  (Ord. 1973-1, passed 4-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
§ 173.65  STOP STREETS.
   (A)   East Drive. All vehicles traveling on East Drive shall come to a
complete stop before entering the intersection with Sugar Creek Drive, and
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Sugar Creek Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.01)
   (B)   Oak Drive. All vehicles traveling on Oak Drive shall come to a
complete stop before entering the intersection with Sugar Creek Drive, and
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Sugar Creek Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.02)
   (C)   Maple Drive. All vehicles traveling on Maple Drive shall come to a
complete stop before entering the intersection with Sugar Creek Drive, and
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Sugar Creek Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.03)
   (D)   Grove Drive. All vehicles traveling on Grove Drive shall come to a
complete stop before entering the intersection with Beech Drive, and shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Beech Drive. All vehicles
traveling Grove Drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on
Maple Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.04)
   (E)   Hill Side Drive. All vehicles traveling on Hillside Drive shall come
to a complete stop before entering the intersection with East Drive, and shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on East Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.05)
   (F)   East Drive. All vehicles traveling on East Drive shall come to a
complete stop before entering the intersection with Lake Drive, and shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Lake Drive.
(Prior Code, § 44.06)
   (G)   Park Drive. All vehicles traveling on Garden Drive east shall come to
a complete stop before entering the intersection with Park Drive, and shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling on Park and Garden Drives.
(Prior Code, § 44.07)
(Ord. 1981-3, passed 5-18-1981)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 174:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Streets and Sidewalks
   
174.01   Burning not permitted on streets
   
174.02   Damaging streets
   
174.03   Right-of-way cut permit
Recreational Use of Spring Lake
   
174.15   Persons allowed use of lake
   
174.16   Non-resident fishing
   
174.17   No alcoholic beverages permitted
   
174.18   Fishing provisions
   
174.19   Boating, swimming and ice skating
   
174.20   Piers and docks
   
174.21   Walkway restrictions
   
174.22   Domestic water fowl
   
174.23   Drainage around lake
   
174.24   Boat owners, requirements
 
   
174.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land Usage, see Title XV
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 174.01  BURNING NOT PERMITTED ON STREETS.
   No person shall burn trash or any material on the surface of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 40.26)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.02  DAMAGING STREETS.
   No person shall run, push, pull or drag any vehicle or other implement upon
any of the public streets or alleys in such a manner as to damage any of such
streets.
(Prior Code, § 40.27)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.03  RIGHT-OF-WAY CUT PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation or business entity
to make a street cut without first obtaining permission of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)  Penalty, see §
174.99
RECREATIONAL USE OF SPRING LAKE
§ 174.15  PERSONS ALLOWED USE OF LAKE.
   (A)   No person shall have the right to fish, wade, swim, boat, ice-skate or
have any other right to the use of the lake except as provided and set forth in
this chapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions of
terms shall apply.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY.  Members of the household of a property owner or
permanent resident who have lived in the town for the immediate preceding 30
days.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  Owns real estate in the Town of Spring Lake, whether
encumbered or not.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT.  One who lives and has lived in the town for the
immediate preceding 30 days, and maintains a separate household or living
quarters in the town.
   (B)   Property owners and their immediate families shall have all of the
privileges of the use of the lake subject to rules and regulations established
by the Town Council from time to time. Exception: a property owner who leases
his or her real estate or sells the same on contract shall not be permitted the
use of the lake.
   (C)   Permanent residents shall have all the privileges of the use of the
lake in the same manner and to the same extent as property owners.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)  (Ord. 1981-1, passed 5-11-1981)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.16  NON-RESIDENT FISHING.
   A special guest fishing permit may be purchased by any property owner or
permanent resident from the Clerk-Treasurer for the sum of $2. This permit
entitles two guests to fish while accompanied at all times by said property
owner or permanent resident when permit is carried on his or her person. This
permit may be renewed each year for the $2 fee. Each permit is valid to and
including December 31 of the year of issuance
(Prior Code, § 50.02)  (Ord. 1981-1, passed 5-11-1981)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.17  NO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PERMITTED.
   There shall be no alcoholic beverages permitted on any town-maintained
swimming area around the lake or along the dam retaining wall or spillway.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)  (Ord. 1981-1, passed 5-11-1981)
§ 174.18  FISHING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall fish in said lake except property owners of real
estate and the immediate families and permanent residents of the town, and non-
resident guests in accordance with the provisions of §
174.16.
   (B)   The method of fishing in Spring Lake shall be with rod or pole, hook
and line, with either live or artificial bait or lure, while attended by the
person fishing, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Other methods that may be allowed, whether for fishing or for any
other purpose, but only for a specifically described time and place and only
when authorized by a written permit issued by the Town Council are as follows;
use of:
      (1)   Dynamite or other explosive;
      (2)   Firearms or bow and arrow;
      (3)   Seines or nets;
      (4)   Trout or throw lines;
      (5)   Gigs or spears;
      (6)   Electricity;
      (7)   Chemicals or gasses;
      (8)   Fishing with light on a boat at night; or
      (9)   Electric trolling motor.
   (D)   Regulations as to open seasons, limit as to number and size of catch,
and restrictions concerning method of fishing and governing spawning beds and
nests shall be established by the Town Council as the circumstances require
them.
   (E)   No person shall fish from the bridge that crosses Spring Lake on East
Drive or from any location which is less than five feet from the pavement of
East Drive.
   (F)   No obstruction shall be allowed on the pavement of East Drive of any
kind or nature, including, but not limited to, a gathering of persons,
bicycles, carts, automobiles or fishing equipment.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)  (Ord. 1971-4, passed 1-1-1936; Ord. 1972-3, passed 7-10-
1972; Ord. 1978-2, passed 6-12-1978; Ord. 1980-2, passed 6-24-1980; Ord. 1981-
1, passed 5-11-1981)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.19  BOATING, SWIMMING AND ICE SKATING.
   (A)   No person or persons shall use Spring Lake for boating, bathing or
skating after 10:00 p.m. (local time).
   (B)   Swimming shall be limited to daylight hours only, hereafter defined as
one-half hour before sunrise until one-half hour after sunset. Pre-school
children will be supervised in any swimming activity in the lake.
   (C)   Regulations establishing restricted areas for ice skating or no ice
skating and bonfires shall be established by the Town Council as the
circumstances require them.
   (D)   A small battery operated trolling motor may be used to power a boat 
All other conveyance will be subject to prior approval by the Council.
   (E)   A non-resident shall not be permitted to use the lake for boating,
bathing, swimming, fishing or ice skating unless accompanied at all times by a
property owner or permanent resident who is at least 18 years of age.
   (F)   A property owner or resident shall not sponsor more than six persons
at one time.
   (G)   Larger parties may be sponsored if special party permissions is
requested through the Clerk-Treasurer and granted by at least one Town Council
member before use of the lake is begun.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)  (Ord. 30, passed 5-5-1934; Ord. 1971-4, passed 1-1-1936;
Ord. 1981-1, passed 5-11-1981; Ord. 2004-2, passed 10-18-2004)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.20  PIERS AND DOCKS.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer for the erection of
any pier or dock on the strip of ground bordering Spring Lake, setting out the
location, size and material to be used.
   (B)   Any pier or dock so erected on the property of Spring Lake is for the
general use of all of the residents of the town, one exception being: no boat
docking at the diving board pier.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of each property owner to see that any
pier or dock erected by him or her is kept in a safe condition.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)  (Ord. 2, passed 3-7-1941)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.21  WALKWAY RESTRICTION.
   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on or
around the walkway around the lake, in the town, at any time.
(Prior Code, § 50.07)  (Ord. 38, passed 12-1-1942)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.22  DOMESTIC WATERFOWL.
   Any duck, goose or any species of domesticated waterfowl, is prohibited to
run at large on lake property or to swim in or on Spring Lake.
(Prior Code, § 50.08)  (Ord. 29, passed 12-2-1933)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.23  DRAINAGE AROUND THE LAKE.
   (A)   No person or persons shall directly or indirectly permit any drainage
from cesspools, septic tanks, privy vaults or any other source, excepting
surface drainage caused by rainfall or melting of ice and snow, to be drained
into the body of water known as “Spring Lake.”
   (B)   Any and all drains, such as are prohibited in division (A) above,
shall be removed from said Lake.
(Prior Code, § 50.09)  (Ord. 10, passed 5-5-1928)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.24  BOAT OWNERS, REQUIREMENTS.
   All boats used on Spring Lake shall have on their outside bow plainly
visible, in no less than one and one-half inch letters, the surname of the
family owning said boat. This shall be done before December 31, 2004.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)  Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All boats unmarked will be impounded and a $50 fine collected before
there return.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 175:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 176:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
176.01   Generally
   
176.02   Congregating in public places
   
176.03   Disturbing place of meetings
   
176.04   Curfew for persons under 18 years of age
   
176.05   Permitting children to violate curfew law
   
176.06   Interference with officials
   
176.07   Civil emergencies
Persons and Property
   
176.20   Firing guns
   
176.21   Possession of explosives
   
176.22   Distribution of handbills, advertisements
   
176.23   Throwing or shooting missiles
Public Peace
   
176.35   Unnecessary noise by motor vehicles
   
176.36   Loitering prohibited
Abuse and Destruction of Town Property
   
176.50   Unlawful damage to town property
   
176.51   Pollution of lake
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Offenses, see Title XIII
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 176.01  GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, to disturb the peace and quiet of
the town or of its inhabitants by loud talking or by the making of unusual
noises, or by the crying of any alarm without good cause, or by threatening any
person of challenging him or her to fight or menacing him or her with physical
injury or pecuniary loss, or by accosting or approaching any person unknown to
such person and by word, sign or gesture attempting to speak to or become
acquainted with such person against his or her will except in the transaction
of legitimate business.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.02  CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to congregate or cause to be congregated a
crowd of three or more persons upon any public street, alley, parking lot,
building or any other public place within the town so as to obstruct the same
or as to hinder or annoy passerby or occupants of adjacent premises, or as to
interfere with the activities normally carried on  the premises.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.03  DISTURBING PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town by any loud
or unnecessary talking or shouting or by any threatening, abusive, profane or
obscene language or violent action, or by any other rude behavior, to
interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb any group of persons meeting together for
any lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.04  CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 years of age
to be, appear or remain in, along or upon any of the streets, or public places
within the corporate limits of the town:
      (1)   Between 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in or returning from lawful employment or a lawful
athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or social event.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.05  PERMITTING CHILDREN TO VIOLATE CURFEW LAW.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person charged by law with the care, custody
and control of any person under 18 years of age, or any parent, parents, person
or persons, or any individual having temporary care, custody and control of any
person under 18 years of age, to allow or permit the child, ward or other
person under 18 years of age to go upon, in or along any of the streets, alleys
or public places within the corporate limits of the town in the nighttime after
the times specified in §
176.04, prevailing time, unless the person under 18 years of age is accompanied
by his or her parent, parents, guardian or other adult person charged with the
care, custody and control of the person under 18 years of age; or unless there
exists a “reasonable necessity” for the person under 18 years of age to be in
or along these places after the above time.
   (B)   REASONABLE NECESSITY includes situations in respect to employment
under proper supervision and with proper license as provided for by the state
laws, emergencies or proper duties.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.06  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally impede or
interfere, or attempt to impede or interfere with the Town Marshal, firefighter
or any other town official in the performance of his or her duty or emergency
functions as a firefighter, Town Marshal or town official.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.07  CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A) Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
         (b)   Any natural disaster human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      CURFEW.  A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
   (B)   Proclamation by President of Town Council. When, in the judgment of
the President of the Town Council, a civil emergency as defined herein is
deemed to exist, he or she shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of
same. In case of the absence of the President of the Town Council from the
town, the Town Marshal shall be authorized to act in his or her stead.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
President of Town Council, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to
such geographical areas of the town or to the town as a whole, as he or she
deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or
she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
President of the Town Council may also in the interest of public safety and
welfare make any or all of the following orders: issue such orders as are
imminently necessary for the protection of life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the President of the Town Council shall have the power to invoke any or all of
the following provisions.
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly assigned restricted
area.
      (2)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
      (3)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess or use
any type of a “Molotov cocktail,” gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
      (4)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any area designated by the
President of the Town Council as a restricted area unless in the performance of
official duties or with written permission from the President or his or her
duly designated representative, or such person shall prove residence therein.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PERSONS AND PROPERTY
§ 176.20  FIRING GUNS.
   No person shall fire a gun within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.21  POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have or keep
within the limits of the town any nitroglycerin, dynamite or other dangerous
explosive.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.22  DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit in or
on any street, alley, gutter, porch, yard, lot or common within the limits of
the town any handbill, advertisement, circular or other paper or to tack or
fasten any number of handbills, advertisement, circulars or other papers to any
pole, post, fence, building or other object on the outside of any building or
house.
   (B)   Any person permitted to circulate or distribute handbills,
advertisements or other papers among the inhabitants of the town shall so
circulate, distribute, place and deposit them in the newspaper box only of
houses, or buildings in such manner that they are not blown and scattered over
and on the streets, gutters, alleys, lots, yards and commons of the town.
   (C)   This section does not prevent the posting of legal notices required by
law to be posted in public places nor the posting up of ordinary show bills and
notices of amusement where these are securely posted or fastened in single
sheets to billboards or other permanent objects.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.23  THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot stones, clubs, shot or
any objects or missiles, either with hand, sling or other instrument for the
purpose of throwing or shooting at any person or animal or at any building or
other property, or to throw or shoot objects or missiles in like manner upon
any of the streets or within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 71.05)  (Ord. 10-15-01, passed 10-15-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC PEACE
§ 176.35  UNNECESSARY NOISE BY MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The making of any unnecessary noise in the operation of any motorcycle or
any other motor vehicle within the town shall be a nuisance and a violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.36  LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.
   (B)   Circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is
warranted include:
      (1)   The fact the malefactor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer;
      (2)   Refuses to identify himself or herself; or
      (3)   Manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
   (C)   Unless flight by the malefactor or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section afford the malefactor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or
herself and explain his or her presence and conduct.
(Prior Code, § 72.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
ABUSE AND DESTRUCTION OF TOWN PROPERTY
§ 176.50  UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage any property of the town
including all streets, ways and thoroughfares under the control and
jurisdiction of the town, the lake situated therein, its drains and
appurtenances; the community building, its fixtures and appurtenances; and any
and all billboards, signs and bulletins issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 176.51  POLLUTION OF LAKE.
   Violation of this subchapter shall also include, but not be limited to, any
pollution of the lake, unauthorized opening or closing of the drains of said
lake, and any and all damage done to the wildlife contents of the lake
including, but not limited to, chemical blasting of any type, electrical shock
or use of explosives therein.
(Prior Code, § 73.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 177:  LAND USAGE
Section
House Numbers
   
177.01   Area Planning Commission duty
   
177.02   Street naming and numbering system
   
177.03   Notification required
   
177.04   Street signs
Flood Control
   
177.15   General provisions
Planning and Zoning
   
177.30   Area Planning Law adopted
   
177.31   Zoning Authority
   
177.32   Comprehensive Plan
   
177.33   Membership on Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
   
177.34   Operating funds and withdrawal procedure
HOUSE NUMBERS
§ 177.01  AREA PLANNING COMMISSION DUTY.
   The County Area Plan Commission must:
   (A)   Approve the assignment of street numbers to lots and structures within
the town;
   (B)   May number or renumber lots and structures; and
   (C)   May recommend the naming and renaming of streets to the Executive.
(Prior Code, § 56.01)
§ 177.02  STREET NAMING AND NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Streets shall be named and renamed by the Executive so that their
names are easy to understand and to avoid duplication or conflict with other
names.
   (B)   The County Area Plan Commission may, by rule, prescribe a numbering
system for lots and structures.
(Prior Code, § 56.02)
§ 177.03  NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   If the Executive names or renames streets or the Executive or County Area
Plan Commission numbers or renumbers lots and structures under this subchapter,
the Commission or Executive shall notify the Circuit Court Clerk of the county
of its action no later than the last day of the month following the month in
which the action is taken.
(Prior Code, § 56.03)
§ 177.04  STREET SIGNS.
   The Town Council shall provide name plates for the streets and cause them to
be displayed, under its supervision, at the principal street intersections. The
cost of such plates to be provided from the Street Fund.
(Prior Code, § 56.04)  (Ord. 200, passed 6-10-1931)
FLOOD CONTROL
§ 177.15  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The Town Council hereby:
   (A)   Assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it will enact as
necessary, and maintain in force in those areas having flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion hazards adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in § 1910 of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations; and
   (B)   Vests the President of the Town Council with the responsibility,
authority and means to:
      (1)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in his or her
delineation of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood related erosion hazards;
      (2)   Provide such information as the Administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring
communities with respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of
existing hazards;
      (4)   Submit on the anniversary date of the community’s initial
eligibility an annual report to the Administrator on the progress made during
the past year within the community in the development and implementation of
floodplain management measures; and
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order that all
flood hazard boundary maps and flood insurance rate maps accurately represent
the community’s boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of
the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate
limits or new area for which the community has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
   (C)   Appoints the President of the Town Council to maintain for public
inspection and to furnish upon request, for the determination of applicable
flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special flood
hazards identified on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map,
any certificates of flood-proofing, and information on the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest habitable floor
(including basement if habitable) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and include whether or not such structures contain a basement, and
if the structure has been flood-proofed the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was flood-proofed;
   (D)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)  (Ord. passed 3-12-1984)
PLANNING AND ZONING
§ 177.30  AREA PLANNING LAW ADOPTED.
   The town adopts the Area Planning Law.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)  (Ord. 1987-1A, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 177.31  ZONING AUTHORITY.
   Chapter 7 of the County Code, (zoning ordinance of the county, as amended,
passed September 8, 1975) with the exception of §§ 7-1 through 7-7, is adopted
as the zoning law for the County Area Plan Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)  (Ord. 1987-1A, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 177.32  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Comprehensive Plan for the town is that all property within the town
limits is Residential 1-2 (R-2).
(Prior Code, § 90.03)  (Ord. 1987-1A, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 177.33  MEMBERSHIP ON PLAN COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The representation on the County Area Plan Commission, and the initial terms
of the members of the Commission and the County Board of Zoning Appeals, shall
be that as set out in Ord. 1986-9A as adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the county.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)  (Ord. 1987-1A, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 177.34  OPERATING FUNDS AND WITHDRAWAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The County Area Planning Department shall be operated out of monies
appropriated by the county.
   (B)   The town may withdraw its participation from the County Area Planning
Department by adopting an ordinance to that effect and certifying a copy of
that ordinance to all of the cities, towns and the county that are members.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)
PARALLEL REFERENCES FOR TITLE XVII
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
 
I.C. Reference   Code Section
31-33-7-7        171.02
35-40-5          171.02
36-5-2-1 et seq. 171.15
36-5-6-1 et seq. 171.15
                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
20.01      171.15
20.02      171.16
20.03      171.17
20.04      171.18
20.05      171.19
20.06      171.20
24.01      171.35
24.02      171.36
24.03      171.37
24.04      171.38
24.05      171.39
24.06      171.40
24.07      171.41
26.01      171.21
26.02      171.22
28.01      171.55
28.02      171.56
28.03      171.57
30.01      172.35
30.02      172.36
30.03      172.37
30.04      172.38
30.05      172.39
33.01      174.03
40.05      173.01
40.06      173.02
40.07      173.03
40.09      173.04
40.26      174.01
40.27      174.02
41.01      173.30
41.02      173.31
41.03      173.32
41.30      173.15
41.31      173.16
42.01      173.45
42.02      173.46,
           173.48
43.01      173.47
43.03      173.49
43.99      173.50
44.01      173.65
44.02      173.65
44.03      173.65
44.04      173.65
44.05      173.65
44.06      173.65
44.07      173.65
50.01      174.15
50.02      174.16
50.03      174.17
50.04      174.18
50.05      174.19
50.06      174.20
50.07      174.21
50.08      174.22
50.09      174.23
54.01      172.01
54.02      172.02
54.03      172.03
54.04      172.04
54.05      172.05
54.06      172.20
54.07      172.21
54.08      172.22
56.01      177.01
56.02      177.02
56.03      177.03
56.04      177.04
70.01      176.01
70.02      176.02
70.03      176.03
70.04      176.04
70.05      176.05
70.06      176.06
70.07      176.07
71.01      176.20
71.02      176.21
71.03      176.22
71.05      176.23
72.01      176.35
72.02      176.36
73.01      176.50
73.02      176.51
75.01      171.01
76.01      171.02
90.01      177.30
90.02      177.31
90.03      177.32
90.04      177.33
90.05      177.34
93.01      177.15
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
10       5-5-1928    174.23
200      6-10-1931   177.04
29       12-2-1933   174.22
30       5-5-1934    174.19
1971-4   1-1-1936    174.18,
                     174.19
2        3-7-1941    174.20
38       12-1-1942   174.21
51       5-7-1948    172.35 through
                     172.39
-        8-9-1971    173.30
1972-3   7-10-1972   174.18
1973-1   4-9-1973    173.47 through
                     173.50
1978-2   6-12-1978   174.18
1980-2   6-24-1980   174.18
1881-3   3-9-1981    171.22
1981-1   5-11-1981   174.15 through
                     174.19
1981-3   5-18-1981   173.65
-        3-12-1984   177.15
1987-1A  1-12-1987   177.30 through
                     177.33
1988-1   9-12-1988   171.41
-        1-1-1993    171.56
10-15-01 10-15-2001  176.23
-        10-20-2003  171.57
-        9-20-2004   174.24,
                     174.99
2004-2   10-18-2004  174.19
                    
 
