SWEETSER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Leglislation Ord. 3-2023, passed 4-13-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Sweetser Code,”
for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application or construction of the law they precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Grant County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Sweetser, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   (1)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued;
punishments, penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this
code had not been enacted.
      (2)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 per day for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 per day for second and subsequent
violations, except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Legal holidays
   
11.02   Sweetser Day
   
11.03   Town flag
   
11.04   Town seal
§ 11.01 LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   The designation of any legal holiday by the Board for town employees shall
not affect any action taken by the Board while in regular or special session.
Any action taken by any town officer or employee on any holiday shall be valid
for all purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-9-1)
Statutory reference:
   Legal holidays, see I.C. 1-1-9-1
§ 11.02 SWEETSER DAY.
   February 20 is designated as Sweetser Day.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-10-1)
§ 11.03 TOWN FLAG.
   (A)   The town flag shall have the following design: A white field with a
golden circle centered; the word “Sweetser” in red letters centered above the
circle and the date “1871” in red letters centered beneath the circle.
   (B)   Within the golden circle, the following design: a white field, with
eight silver interworking cogs in its center; a silver natural gas pipe on a
field of greed grass centered above the cogs; four green and brown trees on the
right of the cogs; a black locomotive on tracks beneath the cogs; and three
young people on the left of the cogs.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1-1)
§ 11.04 TOWN SEAL.
   The Board adopts a common seal with the following design: A circle with the
word “SEAL” centered, with one bar centered above that word and another bar
centered below it, all surrounded by a beaded ring, with the words “Town of
Sweetser” and “Sweetser, Indiana” circling the top and bottom, respectively, of
the beaded ring, with one additional ring surrounding the aforementioned words.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-9)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
      
36.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Nondiscrimination policy
   
30.03   Internal control standards
   
30.04   Town personnel
   
30.05   Blanket bond for public officials
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town not to discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment due to the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age or handicap of that individual. This policy extends to all phases
of employment and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer;
   (B)   Recruitment or recruitment advertising;
   (C)   Lay-off or termination;
   (D)   Rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and
   (E)   Selection for training, including apprenticeship.
(Prior Code, § 22-9-1-12.1)
Statutory reference:
   Local commissions authorized; powers, see I.C. 22-9-1-12.1
§ 30.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts as policy the internal control standards as set
forth by the State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for
State Political Subdivisions manual as expressly written and published by the
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
   (B)   At the time the annual financial report is electronically filed, the
Clerk-Treasurer, as fiscal officer of the town, shall certify in writing that
the Uniform Internal Control Standards for State Political Subdivisions have
been adopted and shall certify that the personnel have been trained as required
by law.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.04 TOWN PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Council may authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to hire an assistant
clerk when needed for the function of the Clerk’s office and Town Council, at a
rate as set forth in the Salary Ordinance.
   (B)   The Town Council may hire a sewer collections/Council secretary as
needed for the function of the Town Council, at a rate as set forth in the
Salary Ordinance.
   (C)   Vacation, leave time and personal time off of new full-time employees
shall accumulate at the end of their probationary period and will be
retroactive to the time job started. No personal days will be payable the first
year of employment.
   (D)   All full-time employees shall work 40 hours as scheduled per week
before compensation time can accumulate. All employees shall ring their time
card at the beginning and the end of their work day, and any employee ringing
another employee’s time card will be subject to termination. Any un-rang time
card will be subject to the Department Head’s determination. At the end of
employee’s work week, the employees shall have his or her card approved in
writing by their Department Head and turned in to the Clerk-Treasurer to be
properly recorded. Any time card turned in more than 72 hours late will not be
considered for payment. All entries entered by hand must be in ink and
initialed by the department head for approval.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Police Department employees will, for safety reasons,
contact the County Sheriff’s Department any time they are coming on duty or off
duty, or called to any disturbance during their off-duty hours or on call
hours. Employees of the Police Department will work a 28-day schedule as
determined by the Town Council/Police Commissioner.
      (2)   The police schedule shall be posted at the beginning of the month
in a conspicuous area for easy referral. The Police Department employees will
work their required amount of hours before compensation time will accumulate.
   (F)   The street and sewer employees work schedule will be from 8:00 a.m. to
4:30 p.m. with a mandatory one-half hour lunch period.
   (G)   Vacation time for employees:
      (1)   Vacation (which must be taken one full work week at a time, i.e.,
seven consecutive 24-hour calendar days) without loss of pay shall be as
follows:
         (a)   One to two years: two weeks earned, one week the most
advantageous to the employee;
         (b)   Three to nine years: three weeks earned; and
         (c)   Ten years or more: four weeks earned.
      (2)   Vacation time will be allowed to carry over one week only, if
submitted and approved by the Town Council. New town employees will accumulate
up to 12 days per year, and any employee hired in any month after January 1
will accumulate one day per month of service. Up to 12 accumulated paid absence
allowance days will be credited beginning the first day of the second year
(January 1), and first year employees will accumulate paid absence days at the
rate of one day per month from the date of employment. No personal/sick days
are provided the first year of employment. Allowance days can be used by
employees for either sick or personal days at their discretion but will not
carry over to the new year. Employees will be required to turn in an absence
card for time off and will only recognize an eight-hour minimum.
      (3)   To avoid vacation conflict, vacation shall be turned in by March 1
of that year. If a vacation is not scheduled, it will be referred to the
Council for approval. Any day taken that is not earned will be deducted at the
end of the next pay period.
   (H)   Bereavement will be paid on the death of an immediate family member
for a period of three consecutive days. The immediate family is considered to
be grandmother, grandfather, father, mother, step-mother, step-father,
children, step-children, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse, sister or
brother.
   (I)   For sick leave, employees will be compensated only after all allowable
leave time has been used (including all paid absence days and vacation time)
according to their salary, while off-duty for no more than 90 days. If the Town
Council offers a short-term and/or a long-term disability insurance policy, the
town will only pay what the policy pays. If the employee is not released by a
doctor, they will be compensated for the injury while on duty to supplement
workers’ compensation so full salary is achieved. This compensative will
include any amount paid through the short and/or long term disability insurance
through Social Security. Employees having three consecutive sick days off after
using up all “personal days” and “comp” time will be required to turn in a
doctor’s slip for each consecutive day. Three consecutive days off without
notification of the Council President or department head shall constitute a
voluntary quit.
   (J)   All town employees will agree to submit to drug tests and/or physicals
upon request by the Council.
   (K)   Holidays apply to hourly employees only. Paid holidays are as follows:
New Year’s Day; Good Friday; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day;
Election Day; Thanksgiving Day and the day after Thanksgiving; and Christmas
Eve (December 24) and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 30.05 BLANKET BOND FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain a blanket surety and crime bond
pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18 instead of purchasing individual surety bonds for
town officers and employees.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 1-22-1998)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Open meetings
   
31.016   Executive sessions
   
31.017   Notice of meetings
   
31.018   Agenda
   
31.019   Record of meetings
   
31.020   Quorum
   
31.021   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Council members
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.016 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding under
federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction, including: a purchase; a lease as
lessor; a lease as lessee; a transfer; an exchange; or a sale; by the Town
Council up to the time a contract or option is executed by the parties. This
clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to comply with any other
statute that governs the conduct of the real property transaction, including
I.C. 36-1-10 or 36-1-11; and
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   (a)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial
prospects or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
            1.   The State Economic Development Corporation;
            2.   The State Destination Development Corporation;
            3.   The State Finance Authority;
            4.   The ports of the state;
            5.   An Economic Development Commission;
            6.   The State Department of Agriculture;
            7.   The White River State Park Development Commission;
            8.   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in the state, the retention or expansion
of state business or the development of entrepreneurial activities in the
state; or
            9.   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (b)   However, this division (B)(4) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism;
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14); and
      (15)   For discussion by the Town Council of a state educational
institution of: the assessment of or negotiations with another entity
concerning the establishment of a collaborative relationship or venture to
advance the research, engagement or education mission of the state educational
institution. However, this division (B)(15) does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   (1)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject
matter by specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which
executive sessions may be held under division (B) above.
      (2)   The requirements stated in §
31.019 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given.
      (3)   The Town Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and
minutes of the Town Council that no subject matter was discussed in the
executive session other than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.017 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council or, if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.018 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.019 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.020 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.021 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal. If the President refuses
to allow the Council members to exercise their right to appeal a decision of
the Chair, the Council members may consider and pass upon the matter in spite
of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (B)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (C)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated, and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   (1)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or
for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the Council.
      (2)   When the Clerk of Council has commenced to call the roll of the
Council for the taking of a vote by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the
question before the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of
the vote a member shall be permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and
shall respond to the calling of his or her name by the Clerk of Council by
answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote, and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council.
   (B)   The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the
same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed.
      (2)   A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion.
      (3)   If the Chair determines that new facts are to be presented to the
Council, or that there is a likelihood that the Council will reverse its
previous decision, the Chair shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is
continuously brought before the Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its
reintroduction under a motion to rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules or the statutes of the state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, 13-23, 13-24, 13-25-4 or 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
   
32.26   Marshal’s Reserve
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution, Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
         (a)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only
on order of the Town Council;
         (b)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
         (c)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
         (d)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
         (e)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make
investments of town money;
         (f)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of
miscellaneous revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
         (g)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
         (h)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees
fixed by ordinance;
         (i)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
         (j)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
         (k)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
         (l)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
      (2)   Except as provided in I.C. 5-11, the Clerk-Treasurer is not liable,
in an individual capacity, for any act or omission occurring in connection with
the performance of the requirements set forth in division (C)(1) above unless
the act or omission constitutes gross negligence or an intentional disregard of
the requirements.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (D) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana
Constitution Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the agreement may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must meet
the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal Fire and Police Departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and
term of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy
marshal at any time.
      (2)   However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
§ 32.26 MARSHAL’S RESERVE.
   (A)   The Town Council, recognizing the need to provide support to the Town
Marshal and deputy town marshals in the enforcement and in the performance of
their police powers for the protection of the town citizens, establishes the
Town Marshal’s Reserve.
   (B)   The Town Marshal’s Reserve shall consist of one but not more than 12
deputy marshals. The Town Marshal shall appoint the Reserve deputy marshals
with the concurrence and approval of the Council. The Reserve deputy marshals
may not be regular members of the Town Marshal’s Department. Reserve deputy
marshals shall have the same police powers as regular members of the Town
Marshal’s Department except as limited by rules established by the Town
Marshal.
   (C)   The Reserve shall be entitled to the following benefits to the extent
that sums for such benefits are appropriated:
      (1)   Receive uniforms;
      (2)   Receive compensation for time lost from other employment because of
court appearances; and
      (3)   Receive liability insurance coverage as extended to the Town
Marshal and deputy town marshals.
   (D)   Reserve deputy marshals need not be residents of the town.
   (E)   Until they have completed the training and probationary period as
specified by the rules established by the Town Marshal, Reserve deputy marshals
shall have no authority to enforce any laws or perform any police duties.
   (F)   A Reserve deputy marshal appointed by the Town Marshal after June 30,
1993, may not:
      (1)   Make an arrest;
      (2)   Conduct a search or seizure of a person or property; or
      (3)   Carry a firearm unless he or she successfully completes a pre-basic
course as prescribed under I.C. 5-2-1-9(f) and regulations as promulgated by
the Law Enforcement Training Board under 250 I.A.C.
(Ord. 7-2008, passed 11-20-2008)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Purchasing
   
33.35   Purchasing rules
   
33.36   Purchasing agency
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year and shall prepare an itemized estimate of
expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of the Council shall meet with the department heads and
the fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates
to the Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town
Council shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing
budget year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year.
   (B)   The Town Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any
estimated item from the figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer.
The Town Council shall promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
PURCHASING
§ 33.35 PURCHASING RULES.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The Town Council, as
purchasing agent under I.C. 5-22 (“the Act”), shall retain all offers received
in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened
in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the
offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the time of the bid opening, unless the bid opening is delayed, as
authorized in this section or any other statute or ordinance.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (B)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent may conduct discussions with offerors, and best and final
offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (C)   Delay of openings of offers. When the Town Council makes a written
determination that is in the town’s best interest, offers may be opened after
the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility. The following amounts are
subject to change, and shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000.
         (a)   The solicitation may include a requirement that an offeror
provide evidence of financial responsibility.
         (b)   If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable.
         (c)   If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10%
of the estimated cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (4)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that
no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
   (E)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The Town Council, as purchasing agent, may
include provisions to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The
following provisions for price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the town of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the town in accordance with applicable
ordinances adopted by the town.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of the town. The purchasing agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 98-11, passed - -1998)
§ 33.36 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council, and policies
adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every agency,
board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council and department. The Town
Council shall be the purchasing agent of the
Town Purchasing Agency, and the Town Council may designate in writing any
employee of the town as a deputy purchasing agent.
(Ord. 98-12, passed - -1998)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Bureau Administrator designated
   
34.03   Duties of Administrator
   
34.04   Right to trial
   
34.05   Payment of fines
   
34.06   Civil penalties schedule
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the town.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS BUREAU ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall administer the Bureau.
All fines collected will be receipted and accounted for by the Clerk-Treasurer.
Proceeds from the Bureau shall be placed into the Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund.
   (B)   The officers of the Police Department are duly authorized to issue
uniform tickets (in the same form as the uniform traffic tickets now in the use
for traffic violations) upon having good cause to believe a violation of an
ordinance listed herein has occurred.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, deputy clerk, Town Marshal, chief deputy or a
designee shall be authorized to accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admissions of violations and payment of civil penalties in the amount and for
the violation as provided below. Payment of civil penalties may be made in
person by cash or check or through mail by certified check or money order.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
§ 34.04 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be constituted to limit the rights of trial to
a person charged with an ordinance violation. If a person charged with an
ordinance violation wants to exercise his, her or their right to trial, the
ordinance violation will be sent to the designated court and heard by the judge
of said court.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
§ 34.05 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   Persons charged with an ordinance violation shall have 14 days from
the issuance of the violation citation to pay the fine prior to the paperwork
being transferred to the court. Once the paperwork is transferred to the court,
the fines must be paid through the court during its normal business hours. Each
day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation. Once
transferred to the court, all violations, fines and penalties are subject to
court cost.
   (B)   The costs established in division (A) above are subject to added court
costs once filing has transferred and taken place.
   (C)   Persons shall contact the Town Marshal or Town Clerk-Treasurer to see
which court to contact.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
§ 34.06 CIVIL PENALTIES SCHEDULE.
   The following schedule of ordinances and Town Code provisions shall be
subject to the jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violations Bureau, and violations
of said ordinances and code provisions shall be subject to the civil penalty
set forth. The following amounts are subject to change, and shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time.
 
Code/Ordinance No. Description of Violation         Fine Amount
                                                    1-10 mph over: $50
Ordinance 2004-3   Speeding                         10-15 mph over: $100
                                                    15 mph and over: $250
                   Failure to stop at posted stop
Ordinance 2004-4   sign:                            $50
                   Failure to yield at posted yield $50
                   sign:
                                                    First offense: $50
Ordinance 2004-4   Parking violation                Second offense: $100
                                                    Third and all following
                                                    offenses: $250
                                                    First offense: $50
Ordinance 2012-3   Littering                        Second offense: $100
                                                    Third and all following
                                                    offenses: $250
                                                    First offense: $50
Ordinance 2012-3   Public nuisance                  Second offense: $100
                                                    Third and all following
                                                    offenses: $250
                                                    First offense: $50
Ordinance 2021-1   Off-road vehicle violation       Second offense: $100
                                                    Third and all following
                                                    offenses: $250
 
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 36: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
36.01   Redevelopment Commission
   
36.02   Economic Development Commission
§ 36.01 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   A new department to be known and designated as the Town Redevelopment
Commission is hereby created and established with full power and authority to
act as provided pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council and the Town Council are hereby
authorized and empowered to create by appointment five Commissioners for the
Town Redevelopment Commission as prescribed in I.C. 36-7-14-6.1 for the purpose
of such Commissioners being empowered to do all things necessary for the
promotion of the business and activities of said Town Redevelopment Commission.
In addition, the President of the Town Council shall appoint an advisory,
nonvoting member. Such member shall be a current Board member of the Oak Hill
United School Corporation as provided in I.C. 36-7-14-6.1.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-12-2012; Ord. 2015-7, passed 3-26-2015)
§ 36.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town hereby creates the Town Economic Development Commission to
carry out the provisions of this section in accordance with the Economic
Development and Pollution Control Act of 1981, being I.C. 36-7-12.
   (B)   The members of said Commission shall be appointed and shall perform
duties and exercise the powers all as set forth in the aforesaid Economic
Development and Pollution Control Act of 1981 under I.C. 36-7-12-6.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-28-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Garbage and trash
§ 51.01 GARBAGE AND TRASH.
   (A)   From and after May 1, 2006, the collection, hauling, transporting,
processing, treating and disposing of the garbage and trash in the town shall
be done in strict compliance with all rules and regulations applicable to same,
whether said rules and regulations are by the United States of America, the
state, the county and/or the town.
   (B)   From and after May 1, 2006, the Town Council shall fix and determine,
at time appropriate and deemed proper by it, the rates and charges to be
assessed and collected within the town, in order to obtain the income necessary
to provide the services with relation to garbage and trash as hereinabove set
out.
   (C)   (1)   From and after May 1, 2006, through and including April 30,
2007, a charge, in an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time, per dwelling unit per month shall be made for the services of the
collection, transporting, hauling, processing, treating and disposing of
garbage and trash within the town limits, and in accordance with any and all
rules and regulations at any time established by the Town Council, and further
in accordance with any and all contracts entered into for said services by the
town, and any and all charges to be made upon every dwelling unit within the
town limits.
      (2)   From and after May 1, 2007, through and including April 30, 2008, a
charge of $7.21 per dwelling unit per month shall be made; from and after May
1, 2008 through and including April 30, 2009, a charge of $7.43 per dwelling
unit per month shall be made; from and after May 1,2009, through and including
April 30, 2010, a charge of $7.65 per dwelling unit per month shall be made;
and from and after May 1, 2010 through and including April 30, 2011, a charge
of $7.88 per dwelling unit per month shall be made for the services of
collection, transporting, hauling, processing, treating and disposing of
garbage and trash within the town limits. Such monthly charge may be changed
from time to time as the Town Council shall find reasonable and appropriate.
   (D)   If garbage and trash collection service is requested by any retail,
manufacturing and/or commercial establishment within the town, the same may be
furnished upon a charge to be collected by the town and paid by said retail,
manufacturing and/or commercial establishment in an amount and at times to be
determined from time to time upon the agreement by the town to furnish said
services.
   (E)   In the event that the owner of a dwelling unit and/or the occupant
thereof fails and/or refuses or neglects to pay the monthly charge or any part
thereof for the services rendered as herein described for a dwelling unit or
any part thereof, said charge or charges shall be an obligation of the owner
and the occupant of said dwelling unit and if the owner and/or occupant does
not pay the monthly charge of any part thereof within 30 days after it is due,
the amount of the unpaid monthly charge, together with the penalty of 10% and
reasonable attorneys’ fees shall be recovered by the town, in accordance with
I.C. 36-9-30-21.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 11-9-2006)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and objectives
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   General sewer use
Connections
   
52.015   Tap permit and payments
   
52.016   Proper design and connection required
   
52.017   Extensions outside the municipality
   
52.018   Building sewer permits
   
52.019   Costs borne by owner; indemnification of municipality
   
52.020   Existing building sewers
   
52.021   Conformance with building and plumbing regulations
   
52.022   Conformance with stormwater pollution prevention plan
   
52.023   Disconnection from municipal sanitary sewer collection and treatment
system
Discharges
   
52.035   Industrial dischargers
   
52.036   Compliance pretreatment requirements
   
52.037   Prohibited discharges
   
52.038   Right of municipality to refuse connection
   
52.039   Dilution prohibited
   
52.040   Accidental discharges
   
52.041   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
   
52.042   Special agreements
   
52.043   Exclusion and prior approval of certain wastes
   
52.044   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.045   Grease and sand traps
   
52.046   Submission of data on industrial waste
   
52.047   Control manholes
   
52.048   Waste sampling; standard methods
   
52.049   Modifications; time schedule for compliance
   
52.050   Revocation of treatment services
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.065   Violations; administrative procedure
   
52.066   Compliance reports
   
52.067   Inspection and sampling
   
52.068   Record retention
   
52.069   Confidential information
   
52.070   Bylaws, rules and regulations
   
52.071   Suspension of service
   
52.072   Revocation of permit
   
52.073   Show cause hearing
   
52.074   Legal action
   
52.075   Discharger’s right to appeal
   
52.076   Upsets
   
52.077   Enforcement officials
   
52.078   Right of entry
Rates and Fees
   
52.090   Administrative fines
   
52.091   Sewer rates
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the
municipality and enables the municipality to comply with all applicable state
and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, and amendments
thereof, and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system or contaminate the resultant sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Act as amended by the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Management.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) or CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND
(CBOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per liter required
during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by aerobic biochemical
action under standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C. The
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of building and conveys to a point
approximately three feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER. The pipe which is connected to the building (or
house) drain at a point approximately three feet outside the foundation wall of
the building and which conveys the building’s discharge from that point to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer, which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only, but not storm drainage.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage, but not sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of the
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determinations shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water. COMBINED SEWERS are prohibited from connection to the town’s
wastewater system.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A biological oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Should contain a minimum of eight discrete samples taken
at equal time intervals over the composite period or proportional to the flow
rate over the composite period. More than the minimum number of discrete
samples will be required where the wastewater loading is highly variable.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Either the U.S. EPA, the state or the municipality.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of pollutant measured during a calendar year or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes of
sampling.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   ENGINEER. The duly authorized engineering representative of the town. The
individual designated may be the Town Engineer, Superintendent of the WWTP,
consulting civil or environmental engineer to the municipality, or some
similar, acknowledged, technically qualified person.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. Where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other authorized official of the agency.
   EQUIVALENT USER. The average daily residential flow upon which commercial or
high use establishments are evaluated for load on the treatment works and for
establishing charges (see the Sewer Rate Ordinance).
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OILS. Oil, fat, grease in any physical state, such that will not
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the municipality.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GRINDER PUMP. Grinder pump, control box and tank that services a single-
family residential unit or similar sized connection.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A non-domestic discharger introducing pollutants into the
sewerage system, regardless of whether the discharger is within the boundaries
of the town. Any reference herein or obligation of a user shall include an
INDUSTRIAL USER.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by any person as defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE (PRETREATMENT) PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge
industrial waste into any sanitary sewer as issued by the municipality.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I&I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a new sewerage system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leader;
cellar; yard and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water
discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers; catch basins; stormwaters;
surface run-off; street wash waters; or drainage. INFLOW does not include and
is distinguishable from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer coordination.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the municipal treatment
processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of
the municipality’s NPDES permit.
   LICENSED CONTRACTOR. A licensed contractor permitted by the County Area
Plan, licensed for the service he or she is performing.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. The highest allowable daily discharge.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317(b) and (c) of the Act, which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is started after the
publication of proposed regulations stating an applicable pretreatment standard
or pretreatment requirement will be applicable to such source, provided the
standard is promulgated within 120 days of its proposal in the Federal
Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after its
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source in which construction is started after
the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   Phosphorous: not more than ten mg/l;
         (b)   S.S.: not more than 275 mg/l;
         (c)   Ammonia: not more than 45 mg/l; and
         (d)   CBOD: not more than 275 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
which sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, natural or constructed, which is the point of final
discharge of sewage or of treatment plant effluent into any watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram-atoms per liter of solution.
   POINT SOURCE.
      (1)   Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but
not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock or vessel or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged.
      (2)   The term does not include return flows from irrigated agriculture.
   POLLUTANTS.
      (1)   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Waste containing biochemical oxygen demand,
suspended solids, pH and Fecal Coliform bacteria.
      (2)   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Waste with any pollutant that is not a
compatible pollutant.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such water for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement of any
state, local or federal authority, including, if applicable, the national
categorical pretreatment standard imposed on an industrial user, related to
pretreatment of industrial sewage from privately owned sources prior to
introduction into the public sewage works.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe, conduit, grinder pump system, air release valves,
pumping stations, manholes, valves or any other components which is owned and
controlled by the municipality for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the WWTP.
   REPAIR SERVICE CHARGE. An assessment levied for damage or abuse of the
public sewer and sewerage system owned or operated by the town.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY UNIT. A building under one roof designed, arranged and
used primarily for dwelling purposes by a single family.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories
or institutions and free from stormwater, surface water and industrial waste.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewerage system for wastes which do not exceed in strength the concentration
values above which a strength-of-wastes surcharge will be made.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such unintentional ground, surface and stormwaters as may be
present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and WWTP.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or other waste liquids.
      (1)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and groundwaters and unpolluted industrial wastewaters are not
intentionally admitted.
      (2)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface and groundwater
drainage but excludes sanitary sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of sewers, forcemains, appurtenances and the
public sewer used for collecting, transporting and pumping sewage to the WWTP.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the sewage works that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow-down
wastewater) to the sewage works;
      (2)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the WWTP; or
      (3)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
         (a)   Adversely affect the sewage work’s operation; or
         (b)   Violates:
            1.   Pretreatment standards; or
            2.   A requirement of 327 I.A.C. § 5-19-3.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial WWTP, water supply treatment plant or air pollution
control facility or any other waste having similar characteristics and effects
as defined in standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1342 and 33 U.S.C. § 1345 and
in the applicable requirements under 42 U.S.C. § 6921, 42 U.S.C. § 6924 and 42
U.S.C. § 6944 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901
et seq.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which exceeds a flow quantity ten
times the average daily flow within any ten-minute period, or which the average
daily concentration of any constituent is exceeded by three times within a ten-
minute period, that may adversely affect the collection or treatment system.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
latest edition of Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan prepared to control
erosion in accordance with 327 I.A.C. § 15-5.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the WWTP of the municipality or his or
her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for sewerage services in addition to the basic service
charge.
      (1)   STRENGTH-OF-WASTES SURCHARGE. The extra charges for sewerage
service assessed customers whose sewage is of such a nature that it imposes
upon the sewage works a burden greater than that covered by the service charge.
      (2)   WASTE SURVEILLANCE CHARGE. A monthly charge collected from users
qualifying as industrial-class users to defray the cost of evaluating
customer’s waste by metering and laboratory devices and/or any other methods
deemed necessary.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body for the town’s wastewater treatment system.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to any organism will cause adverse effects such as cancer,
genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as defined in standards
issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The substances referred to in 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) as well
as any other known potential substances capable of producing toxic effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
   USER. Any person, group of people, company, business, corporation,
governmental entity or organization of any kind who discharges any material
into the public sewer and sewerage system. USER includes, but is not limited
to, domestic, municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation,
recreation, aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and
enhancement of fish, wildlife and other aquatic resources of reserves, and
other uses, both tangible and intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength and wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP). The arrangement of devices, structures
and equipment used for treating and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
IDEM   Indiana Department of Environmental Management
ISDH   Indiana State Department of Health
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works (town WWTP)
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SWPPP  Stormwater pollution prevention plan
TSS    Total suspended solids
WWTP   Wastewater treatment plant
 
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.004 GENERAL SEWER USE.
   (A)   Unsanitary deposit of objectionable waste. It is unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the municipality, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the municipality, any human or animal excrement, garbage or
other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Unlawful discharge to natural outlet. It is unlawful to discharge to
any outlet, natural or constructed within the municipality, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Septic tank construction/use. Except as herein provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain a private septic tank system, privies,
cesspools or similar systems intended or used for the disposal of sanitary
sewage, or to change the use of said system from a sanitary sewer system to any
other use.
   (D)   Toilet facilities; sewer connection.
      (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
municipality and abutting on any street, alley, easement or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary
sewer of the municipality, is required at his or her expense to install
suitable public toilet facilities, and to connect the facilities directly with
the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this section
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public
sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
      (2)   Exceptions shall meet the requirements in I.C. 13-26-5-2.5.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
CONNECTIONS
§ 52.015 TAP PERMIT AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained and until he or she has satisfied his or her obligation to pay all
assessments, reimbursements or pro rata shares of sewer extension costs laid
against that property for public sewers installed to serve it. A tap permit
given in error or sewerage service charges billed to a property in error shall
not operate to nullify any such legal obligation that has been duly recorded.
   (B)   The town shall have the authority to require an owner of real property
to disconnect from a building sewer which drains into a sanitary sewer any
downspout, yard drains or other drains which carry the runoff of natural
precipitation. Property owners shall have 30 days after notice to comply with
this requirement.
   (C)   No person shall make any new connection or maintain a connection of
roof downspout; exterior or interior foundation drains or sump pumps; areaway
drains; pool drains (or drainage directly from any pool); shop or garage floor
drains; or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to the sewage system.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 PROPER DESIGN AND CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The town shall prohibit any new connection from inflow sources into the
sanitary sewer portions of the sewerage system and shall ensure that new sewers
and connections to the sanitary sewers are properly designed and connected as
provided in the most current building standards.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.017 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE THE MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   The installation, construction or extension by the municipality
outside the jurisdictional limits of the municipality and the connection or
extension of sewers into the municipality’s sewerage system from, by or for
properties located outside such limits shall be prohibited except upon prior
approval by the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the town shall
have the authority to permit a property located outside its jurisdictional
limits to connect to an existing sewer which is part of the municipality’s
sewerage system; provided, that the property abuts, adjoins and is immediately
contiguous to the street, alley or easement in which the sewer is located and
provided the property owner or occupant has complied with all the conditions
set out herein.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.018 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit; required.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent or his or her
designated representative.
      (2)   This permit may be obtained only by the owner or a licensed
plumbing contractor and must be approved by the Superintendent or his or her
representative prior to being issued.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued to any applicant with a past due account
with the town.
      (4)   New connections (sewer tap) requires a fee paid to the town before
any permit is approved per the Sewer Rate Ordinance.
   (B)   Permit; classes; application.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service; and one for service to establishments
producing industrial waste. In either case, the owner or a licensed contractor
shall make application on a special form furnished by the municipality.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.019 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER; INDEMNIFICATION OF MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify and hold the municipality harmless for any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer, including costs associated with
administrative and legal fees and including control of erosion from the site of
the work.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.020 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and testing by a licensed contractor, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.021 CONFORMANCE WITH BUILDING AND PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the State
Health Code, State Building Code, Uniform Plumbing Code and all applicable
standards and specifications of the federal, state, county and municipality.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.022 CONFORMANCE WITH STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   Any owner, contractor or developer making a connection to the sewage system
shall prohibit the runoff or tracking of soil from the construction site and
shall perform such construction in full compliance with 327 I.A.C. § 15-5 and
latest amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.023 DISCONNECTION FROM MUNICIPAL SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
SYSTEM.
   (A)   Should an owner decide to forfeit the sanitary sewer connection, a
disconnect form shall be completed, signed by all owners of record, have the
signatures notarized with the completed form returned to the Town Council for
approval before proceeding with any disconnection work. Forfeiture of the
sanitary sewer collection system would cause the structure not to be
inhabitable.
   (B)   The owner is responsible to pay the cost to disconnect from the
sanitary system. The owner is responsible to reimburse the town for any damage
caused during the removal process, and the owner is responsible to reimburse
the town for any out of pocket costs expended by the town in providing the
owner with service that were specifically for the benefit of said owner.
   (C)   Once the disconnect is complete and verified, the monthly charges will
cease. If the owner decides to reconnect in the future, it will be treated as a
new connection, and capital and connection charges or similar charges in effect
at that time will apply.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
DISCHARGES
§ 52.035 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGERS.
   All industrial dischargers proposing to connect to or discharge sewage,
industrial waste or other waste to the town’s sanitary treatment works must lie
within the incorporated limits of the town or be approved by the Town Council
and must comply with all terms of this section.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.036 COMPLIANCE PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards. National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated
industrial categories, as well as all other pretreatment requirements.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements or
those contained herein.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.037 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to any sewerage system any of the following described substances,
wastes or waters:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 100 mg/l of fats, oils,
greases or waxes;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or mineral oil or any other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either alone or by
interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
   (E)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground;
   (F)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, wood, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, paunch manure, butchers’ offal of any other
solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system
or the WWTP;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or higher than nine or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or posing hazards
to the structure, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions;
   (I)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes;
   (J)   Any waters or wastes that for a duration of five minutes or more have
a concentration more than five times the average concentration of the BOD or
the suspended solids of the customer’s sewage discharged during a 24-hour
period of normal operation;
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual provision, attention and expense would be required to
handle such materials at the WWTP, its pumping stations or other facilities.
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic substances, as defined under §
307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act in sufficient quantity to interfere with
the biological process of the sewage treatment plant or that will pass through
the plant into the receiving stream in amounts exceeding the standards set by
federal, interstate, state or other competent authority having jurisdiction, or
will prevent the disposal of the sludge by the plant in accordance with 33
U.S.C. § 1345;
   (M)   Any waters or wastes containing non-compatible pollutants as defined
herein;
   (N)   A pollutant from any source of non-domestic sewage that could pass
through or cause interference with the operation and performance of the sewage
works;
   (O)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the sewage
works, including waste streams from a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F
(60°C) using the test methods in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (P)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the sewage system;
   (Q)   Heat in an amount that could:
      (1)   Inhibit biological activity in the sewage system and result in
interference or damage to the sewage system; or
      (2)   Exceed 104°F (40°C) at the WWTP unless the Superintendent, upon
request, approves alternate temperature limits.
   (R)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
      (1)   With the permission of the Superintendent; and
      (2)   When introduced to the sewage system at a discharge point
designated by the Superintendent (and upon paying the proper fees).
   (S)   Any toxic ions, compounds or substances exceeding the amounts of
concentrations as set out below, or as set out in any pretreatment requirement,
whichever is more stringent.
Constituent Concentration (mg/l)
Constituent           Concentration (mg/l)
Ammonia               45
Arsenic               0.10
Barium                2
Cadmium               0.2
Chromium (hexavalent) 1
Chromium (total)      3
Chromium (trivalent)  2
Copper                2
Cyanide               1
Iron                  5
Lead                  0.2
Manganese             0.4
Mercury               0.01
Nickel                2
Phenol                1
Phosphorus            10
Selenium              0.02
Silver                0.2
Sulphide (as S)       10
Tin                   2
Zinc                  2
 
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 RIGHT OF MUNICIPALITY TO REFUSE CONNECTION.
   The town reserves the right to refuse connection to any prospective user in
the event the sewage requirements of the user, in the judgment of the Town
Council, could impose an excessive burden on the sewage system. The
municipality further reserves the right, in the event of an emergency, to
restrict the allowable discharge received from any or all large system users
during the time of emergency.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.039 DILUTION PROHIBITED.
   No discharge is allowed to increase the use of potable or process water in
any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge
as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with applicable standards.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.040 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each discharger must provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited or regulated materials or substances. Where necessary,
procedures and facilities to prevent the accidental discharge of prohibited
materials must be provided and maintained at the discharger’s expense. Detailed
plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide the protection
must be submitted to the town for review and be approved by the town before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of plans and operating
procedures by the town will not relieve the discharger from the responsibility
to modify its facility as necessary to meet applicable requirements.
      (2)   Dischargers must notify the town immediately when a slug load or
accidental discharge occurs. The notification must include location of the
discharge, date and time of occurrence, type of waste, concentration and volume
and corrective actions. A user shall notify the Superintendent upon accidently
discharging chemicals, corrosive substances or anything harmful to the sewerage
system or treatment process, or wastewater in violation of this section, to
enable countermeasures to be taken by the town to minimize damage to the
sewerage system, treatment process and the receiving stream.
   (B)   Any industrial user who discharges a slug load of prohibited materials
will be liable for any expense, including loss or damage to the town’s
treatment works, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the
authority under state or federal law.
   (C)   Notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss
or damage to the sewerage system, WWTP or treatment process, or any fines of
penalties imposed by the town, which expense, loss or damage shall be paid for
by the user.
   (D)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the accidental discharge and measures being taken to prevent similar
occurrences.
   (E)   Signs must be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
discharger’s premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of
accidental discharge. Employers must instruct all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge as to emergency notification procedures.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.041 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
aforementioned substances were improperly discharged, the person or persons
responsible for such discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses
incurred by the town in cleaning out, repairing or rebuilding the sewer.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.042 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any person whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
municipality for treatment either with or without pretreatment; provided, that
there is no impairment of the functioning of the sewage works by reason of the
admission of such wastes and no extra costs are incurred by the municipality
without compensation by the person.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.043 EXCLUSION AND PRIOR APPROVAL OF CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   Exclusion of certain wastes. Provision is made for the exclusion of
certain industrial waste by the town.
      (1)   For all industrial waste;
      (2)   For certain industrial waste which because of their constituents
(toxicity, acidity and the like) impair the functioning of the WWTP; and
      (3)   For temporary exclusion of all or certain industrial waste when
conditions are such that NPDES permit restrictions cannot be met.
   (B)   Prior approval for certain wastes. Review and acceptance by the
Superintendent shall be obtained prior to the discharge into the public sewers
by any person of sewage wastes that have:
      (1)   A BOD greater than 200 mg/l;
      (2)   A suspended solids content greater than 250 mg/l; or
      (3)   Other contaminants or characteristics which, from their nature or
quantity, might be harmful to the structures, processes or operations of the
sewage works, the sewerage system or to health, whether by themselves or
through interactions with other wastes in the public sewers.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.044 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pretreatment and modification. When, after making such a review, the
Superintendent concludes that before the person discharges his or her wastes
into the public sewers he or she must modify or eliminate those constituents
which would be harmful to the structures, processes or operations of the sewage
works, sewerage system or injurious to health, then the person shall either
modify his or her wastes at the point of origin or shall provide and operate at
his or her own expense such preliminary treatment or processing facilities as
may be determined to be necessary to render his or her wastes acceptable for
admission to the public sewers.
   (B)   Prior approval of pretreatment facilities. Plans, specifications and
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment or
processing facilities shall be submitted to the State Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) Office of Water Quality and the municipality
for examination and approval; and no construction of such facilities shall
begin until the town, through its Town Council, has given its written approval
for filing such plans with IDEM for a construction permit. The approval shall
not exempt the person from the obligation to make further reasonable
adaptations of such facilities which such adaptations of such facilities when
such adaptations prove necessary to secure the results desired.
   (C)   Operation of pretreatment facilities. Where the preliminary treatment
facilities are provided, they shall obtain an industrial wastewater
pretreatment permit from IDEM and maintain continuously in satisfactory and
effective operating condition by the person at his or her own expense and shall
be subject to periodic inspection by IDEM and the municipality. The person
shall maintain suitable operating records and shall submit to the
Superintendent such monthly summary reports of the character of the influent
and effluent as the latter may prescribe.
   (D)   Restrictions on discharge. Whenever deemed necessary, the
Superintendent may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow
periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage from
wastestreams from industrial waste streams and such other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the sewerage system and determine the user’s compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Storage and flow-control facility. The Superintendent may require any
person discharging into the sewerage system to install and maintain, on their
property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow control facility to
ensure equalization.
   (F)   Increased discharges. The town shall have the authority to accept or
deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect discharger into the
district sewerage system.
   (G)   Emergency suspension. The Superintendent may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably
appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons.
      (1)   The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the district sewerage system, or which presents, or may present,
an endangerment to the environment.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent many take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the
sewerage system, its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals.
      (3)   The Superintendent my allow the user to recommence its discharge
when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that
the period of endangerment has passed, unless termination proceedings under §
52.065(E) are initiated against the user.
      (4)   A user that is responsible in whole or in part for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §
52.065(C) or (E).
      (5)   Nothing in this division (G) shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any emergency suspension.
   (H)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   Users must provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and pretreatment requirements, local limits and any
other required compliance standards set forth in this chapter within the time
limitations specified by EPA, the state or the Superintendent, whichever is
more stringent. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the town and other agencies must be provided, operated and
maintained at the user’s expense.
      (2)   All plans and operating procedures must be submitted to the town
and IDEM before construction of the facility. This requirement also applies to
state regulations in which plans must be approved by IDEM Office of Water
Quality and the plan review section of IDEM.
      (3)   The review of such plans and operation procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.045 GREASE AND SAND TRAPS.
   (A)   Whenever the Superintendent determines that interceptors or traps are
needed to protect the sewerage system or the operations of the WWTP from
grease, oil, sand or similar substances occurring in a customer’s sewage, then
such traps shall be installed by the user on his or her own lines at his or her
own expense and shall be so maintained by him or her so that none of the
substances can be carried over into the public sewers. All traps shall be
subject to the town’s approval as to construction, location and installation.
   (B)   Grease traps shall be maintained to meet concentration limits set
forth in this chapter. Records for this maintenance must be kept and be
available upon request of the Superintendent, or his or her representative,
upon inspection.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substance may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.046 SUBMISSION OF DATA ON INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who discharges industrial wastes into the town’s
sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, shall, upon the written request
of the town, fill out and file within the town within 90 days an industrial
waste questionnaire to be furnished by the town, in which he or she shall set
out the quantity and characteristics of the wastes discharged into the town’s
sewerage system.
      (2)   Similarly, any person desiring to establish a new connection to a
public sewer for the purpose of discharging industrial waste shall be required
to fill out and file such a questionnaire which shall include actual or
predicted data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the wastes to be
discharged. In addition, if any residential user is suspected to be discharging
industrial waste type discharge, he or she may be subject to the foregoing at
the town’s reasonable discretion.
   (B)   When special circumstances such as the size or complexity of a user’s
sewerage disposal problem would make complying with the time schedule cited
above an unreasonable burden on the person or entity, an extension of time, not
to exceed 90 days, may be granted by the town upon presentation of a proper
application.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.047 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   Any user discharging industrial waste into a public sewer, either
directly or indirectly, may be required by the town, upon recommendation of the
Superintendent, to construct and maintain at its, his or her own expense one or
more control manholes at a specified location or locations to facilitate the
observation, measurement and sampling of his or her wastes. Such manholes shall
be constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the town.
The town may also require the person to install and maintain in any such
manhole at the person’s expense an approved volume-measuring device, sampling
device or special monitoring equipment.
   (B)   Plans for the installation of control manholes and related equipment
must be approved by the town, upon recommendation of the Town Superintendent
and the Town Engineer, before construction is begun.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.048 WASTE SAMPLING; STANDARD METHODS.
   (A)   Waste sampling.
      (1)   Any industrial waste discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and determination of character and
concentration. The examination shall be made as often as the Superintendent
deems it necessary (but at least twice a year) and may include the use of
suitable continuously-monitoring instruments in appropriate cases. Samples
shall be collected either manually or by approved mechanical devices and in
such a manner as to be representative of the overall composition of the wastes.
Sampling period shall be determined by the Superintendent. Every care shall be
exercised in collecting the samples to ensure their preservation until analyzed
in a state comparable to that at the time the samples were collected.
      (2)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the sampling
facilities shall be the responsibility of the person discharging the wastes and
shall be subject to the approval of the town. Access to the sampling facilities
shall be granted at all times to the Town Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   (B)   Waste analyses.
      (1)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial waste
shall be those set forth in Standard Methods. However, alternative methods for
certain analyses of industrial waste may be used subject to agreement between
the Superintendent and the user.
      (2)   The town may make the initial analysis and any regular periodic-
check analysis of the user’s waste, as well as other tests the Superintendent
may deem advisable, and the cost of any analysis made by the town shall be
charged to the customer according to the standard work order billing practices.
All such analyses shall be binding and conclusive in determining strength of
water surcharges and other matters which are dependent upon the character and
concentration of wastes.
   (C)   Use of representative analyses. Until an adequate analysis of a
representative sample of user’s wastes has been obtained, the town shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, make determination of the character and
concentration of the user’s wastes by using data based on analyses of similar
processes or data for his or her type of business that are available from the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or from industry-recognized authoritative
sources. This method, if selected by the town, shall continue until an adequate
analysis has been made.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.049 MODIFICATIONS; TIME SCHEDULE FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to amend this section and its terms and
conditions in order to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment
standard, the section must be amended to require compliance by discharges with
the standards within the time frame prescribed by the standards. All national
categorical pretreatment standards promulgated after adoption of the ordinance
codified in this section must be adopted by the authority as part of the
ordinance.
   (B)   Where a discharger subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard has not previously submitted a disclosure form, the discharger must
file a disclosure form with the municipality within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard by
the EPA.
   (C)   In addition, any discharger operating on the basis of a previous
filing of a disclosure statement must submit to the authority, within 180 days
after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard, the additional information required. The discharger must be informed
of any proposed changes in this section at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of the change. Any changes or new conditions in the ordinance must include
a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.050 REVOCATION OF TREATMENT SERVICES.
   The town may seek to terminate the wastewater treatment services to any
discharger which:
   (A)   Fails to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (B)   Fails to report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
   (C)   Violates the pretreatment requirements or admissibility requirements
of this chapter;
   (D)   For a nonresidential discharger, refuses reasonable access to the
discharger’s premises by representatives of the town for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring or for any other user, who refuses reasonable access
to his, her or their property by representatives of the town for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; in addition, the right to terminate shall extend to a
refusal of access to the discharger’s dwelling structures if there is evidence
that the discharger is discharging in violation with the terms herein; or
   (E)   Violates the conditions of this chapter or any final judicial order
entered with respect to provisions herein.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.065 VIOLATIONS; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement or admissibility
requirements, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 15 days of the receipt of such notice, explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent from taking any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Superintendent, upon approval of the Town Council,
may enter into consent orders assurances of compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the compliance
orders and cease and desist orders set forth in this chapter and shall be
judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate any provision of this chapter or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement or admissibility requirements,
to appear before the Superintendent or Town Council and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representatives or the user as defined in this chapter. A show
cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate any provision of this chapter or an order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement or admissibility
requirements, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
requirement of admissibility requirements, nor does a compliance order relieve
the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provisions of this chapter or any other
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirements of admissibility
requirements, or that the user past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Initiate such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Prior issuance of a cease
and desist order shall not be a required prerequisite for any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.066 COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Compliance schedule. Any non-categorical user which is not in
compliance with the town’s limitations must develop a compliance schedule
during which time the user must meet the town’s standards. The schedule should
contain increments of progress (hiring engineers, starting construction and the
like), which correspond to specific dates for their completion. These represent
major events leading to the operation of pretreatment equipment to meet the
town’s pretreatment requirements. All users subject to these conditions must
submit a progress report to the town no later than 14 days following each date
in the compliance schedule. This report must include whether it complied with
the increment of progress to be met on that date, the reason for the delay if
the date was not met and the steps being taken to return to compliance. In no
event can more than six months elapse between progress reports.
   (B)   Compliance schedule reports (categorical users). These reporting
conditions apply to the compliance schedule required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)
(7). This schedule is necessary whenever a user is not meeting categorical
pretreatment requirements at the time of promulgation of that standard. The
schedule contains increments of progress (hiring an engineer, completing plans,
commencing construction, completing construction and the like) which correspond
to specific dates for their completion. These represent major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable categorical pretreatment requirements.
   (C)   Monthly reports. This requirement calls for the submission of all
notices and self-monitoring reports from users that are necessary to assess and
assure compliance by users with applicable pretreatment requirements. These
reports will normally be required on a monthly basis.
   (D)   Baseline report.
      (1)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment requirement, or 180 days after the final administrative decision
made on a category, whichever is later, existing users subject to such
pretreatment requirements and currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the town’s sanitary treatment works will be required to submit to
the town or other control authority a report containing the information listed
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1)-(7).
      (2)   Upon promulgation of a categorical pretreatment requirement, the
control authority (either EPA or IDEM) will provide the appropriate information
for distribution to the users who are affected by the promulgated standard. The
users are then required to submit the completed report to the control
authority.
   (E)   Compliance date report.
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with an
applicable pretreatment requirement, any user subject to those standards must
submit to the control authority a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge generated from the regulated
process which are limited by pretreatment requirements.
      (2)   The report must also state whether applicable standards are being
met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment
is necessary to bring the discharge into compliance. This statement should be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user.
   (F)   Periodic reports on continued compliance.
      (A)   Any discharge subject to an applicable pretreatment requirement
must submit to the control authority during the months of June and December, or
more frequently if required by the control authority, following the final
compliance date of that pretreatment requirement, a report indicating the
nature and concentration of prohibited or regulated substances in the discharge
which are limited by the categorical pretreatment requirements.
      (B)   In addition, this report must include a record of all measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows during the reporting period. Flows
are to be reported on the basis of actual measurement, except, where cost or
feasibility considerations justify, the control authority may accept reports of
average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable techniques. The control
authority, considering such factors may authorize submission of the reports on
months other than those specified herein.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.067 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The control authority may inspect the monitoring facilities of any
discharger to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The
discharger must allow the control authority or its representatives, upon
presentation of credentials of identification, to enter his or her premises at
all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection, sampling or records
examination.
   (B)   The control authority has the right to set up on the discharger’s
property any equipment that is necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance, monitoring and/or metering operations. The control authority need
not give notice to the industry of an unscheduled inspection.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.068 RECORD RETENTION.
   (A)   All dischargers subject to local, state or federal regulations must
retain and preserve for at least three years any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence and any and all summaries relating to
monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or on behalf of a discharger
in connection with its discharge.
   (B)   All records which pertain to matters which are the subject of
enforcement or litigation activities brought by the town or other authority
must be retained and preserved by the discharger until all enforcement
activities have concluded and all periods of limitation concerning any appeals
have expired.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.069 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the control authority with respect
to the nature and frequency of discharge will be made available to the public
or other governmental agency without restriction unless the discharger
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
control authority that the release of such information would divulge
information, methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets or
proprietary information of the discharger.
   (B)   When requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes will not be made
available for inspection by the public but will only be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
NPDES permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that such portions of a report will be available for use by
any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
discharger furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics
will not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the control authority as confidential will not
be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
control authority unless a ten-day notification is given to the discharger.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.070 BYLAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Bylaws, rules and regulations. The Town Council shall, in accordance
with the state statutes, make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules and
regulations it may deem necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management of the town’s sewage works, for the construction and use of building
sewers and connections to the sewerage system and, in general, for the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Amendment. The town reserves the right to amend this chapter, in part
or in whole, as provided and permitted by the state statutes, whenever it may
deem necessary.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.071 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or wastewater
permit of a discharger if it appears to the authority that an actual or
threatened discharge presents an imminent danger to the welfare of persons, to
the environment, to the operation of the POTW or violates any pretreatment
limits or any wastewater permit. Any discharger notified of the suspension of
wastewater treatment service and/or any discharger’s wastewater permit must,
within a reasonable period of time as determined by the Town Council, cease all
discharges. If the discharger fails to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order within the specified time, the Town Council must immediately commence
judicial proceedings unless the discharger can prove the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge of conditions as outlined in this section.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.072 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The town may revoke the permit of any discharger failing to:
   (A)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
its discharge;
   (B)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
   (C)   Refuses reasonable access to his or her premises by representatives of
the town’s sanitary sewer system for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
or
   (D)   Violates the conditions of his or her permit, this chapter or any
final judicial order.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.073 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   Where a violation of this chapter or of applicable pretreatment regulations
occurs and is not corrected by timely compliance, the proposed permit
revocation action should not be taken until the following procedure is
initiated.
   (A)   A written notice must be served on the discharger by personal service,
certified or registered mail, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by the Town Council.
   (B)   The hearing will consider the violation, the proposed enforcement
action, reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken and directing the
discharger to show cause before the Town Council as to why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing must be served no less than ten days before
the hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer or authorized
representative of a discharger.
   (D)   The proceedings at the hearing will be considered by the Town Council,
and appropriate orders, with respect to the alleged improper activities of the
discharger, will be issued.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.074 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial waste or other wastes into the
town’s sanitary sewer system wastewater disposal system contrary to this
chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the Town
Council, the Town Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the circuit court of the county.
   (A)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief.
         (a)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or an order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement or admissibility requirements,
the Superintendent may petition any county court or another court of competent
jurisdiction for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
provisions of this chapter or order issued hereunder on activities of the user.
         (b)   The town may also seek such other action as is appropriate for
legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   The town may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, experts’ fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the town.
         (b)   In determining the amount of civil penalty, the court may take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained though the user’s violation corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
         (c)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Remedies nonexclusive and non-exhaustive.
      (1)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are neither exclusive nor
exhaustive. The Superintendent and the town may take any and, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the enforcement
response plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action against any
user when the circumstances warrant.
      (2)   Further, the Superintendent and the town is empowered to take more
than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user. In addition to the
remedies set forth herein, the town reserves the right to take all other legal
action, including filing a lawsuit, against a user, any other person or entity
in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Such legal action shall include, but is not limited to, a cause of
action to recover for damages to the sewerage system or the WWTP caused by a
user’s violation of this chapter and attorneys’ fees, experts, fees and other
expenses, including sampling and monitoring expenses associated therewith.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.075 DISCHARGER’S RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Any discharger or any interested party has the right
to request in writing an interpretation or ruling by the town on any matter
covered by this chapter and is entitled to a prompt written reply. In the event
that such an inquiry is by the affected discharger and deals with matters of
compliance with this chapter or deals with a wastewater permit, receipt of the
discharger’s request will delay all enforcement proceedings until he or she
receives the written reply.
   (B)   Administrative appeals.
      (1)   Any user affected in any decision, action or determination,
including cease and desist orders, made by the Superintendent, interpreting or
implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein or any
action, decision or regulation of the Town Council adopted pursuant hereto, may
file with the Town Council written requests for review and reconsideration
within ten days of a decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail
the facts supporting the user’s request for reconsideration.
      (2)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Town
Council within 30 days from the date of filing. The Superintendent’s decision,
action or determination shall remain in effect during a period of
reconsideration unless the Town Council otherwise determines.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.076 UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger that experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter or a
wastewater permit must inform the Sanitary Sewer System Superintendent within
24 hours of the upset occurrence. When such information is given orally, a
written report must be sent to the town within five days. The report must
specify:
      (1)   The description of the upset, the cause and the upset’s impact on
the discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   The duration of noncompliance, including times and dates of
noncompliance; and
      (3)   The steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such an upset.
   (B)   A documented and verified operating upset can be an affirmative
defense to any enforcement action brought by the authority against a discharger
for noncompliance if the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.16(c) are met.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.077 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the town or the
Superintendent when so directed by the Town Council for such purpose. Whenever
the Town Council and/or Superintendent shall deem it appropriate to charge a
person with a violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue to such person a
notice of violation which shall be processed according to the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-6-1 through 36-1-6-4. The Town Council and/or Superintendent shall
cause to be prepared, in duplicate, suitable serially-numbered forms of such
notices of violation and shall issue a supply of them, taking their receipts
therefor; provided, that only that such notice of violation forms shall not be
printed until it has been approved by the Town Attorney or his or her
authorized associate. The Superintendent shall make a written accounting to the
Town Council of his or her disposition of the notice of violation forms issued
by him or her. The Superintendent shall each month make a written report to the
Town Council, with copies to the Town Attorney, of the disposal made of the
notice of violation forms issued by them. These reports shall be public
records.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.078 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification, the
Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the town’s
sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to enter all properties for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or
her representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other
activities beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewerage system, waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing any necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town’s sanitary sewer system
shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises as
established by the property owner. The property owner shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the town’s sanitary sewer system employees (except for
property owner’s, or its employee’s or agents, intentional acts or negligence),
and the town shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by town’s sanitary sewer system employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
property owner and growing out of the inspection, gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of either
party to maintain safe working conditions.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town’s
sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to enter all private properties
through which the town’s sanitary sewer system holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (D)   If any party encroaches upon any easement granted to the town by any
person or entity, user or otherwise, the town shall be afforded all remedies
available at law and in equity, including, but not limited to, the right to
require the removal of any such encroachment.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
RATES AND FEES
§ 52.090 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   (1)   Any user violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to penalties as set out forth in this chapter and the Sewer Rate
Ordinance, plus any expenses, loss or damage that may have occurred to the
town’s sanitary sewer system by reason of such infraction. In addition, any
user continuing any violation or infraction of this chapter and/or Sewer Rate
Ordinance beyond the time limit set out in the notice of violation as provided
for in §
52.065 shall be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction shall be fined in
an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for each
infraction for the first infraction.
      (2)   A user may be charged up to an amount that shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time for subsequent infractions. Each day of which any
such violation or infraction continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Finally, any user violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to administrative fines. An administrative fine is a punitive
monetary charge assessed by the town’s sanitary sewer system rather than a
court, for a user who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter,
or permits and orders.
      (2)   Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct violation. The purpose of the fine is to recover
the economic benefit of noncompliance and to deter future violations.
      (3)   Said fines shall be levied in accordance with the amounts set forth
in this chapter, the Sewer Rate Ordinance and orders. When assessing an
administrative fine the following factors are considered:
         (a)   Type and severity of the violation;
         (b)   Number of violations cited;
         (c)   Duration of noncompliance;
         (d)   Impact of the violation on the receiving water, sludge quality
and sewage works operation;
         (e)   Whether the violation threatened public health;
         (f)   The economic benefit or savings the industrial user gained from
the noncompliance;
         (g)   Compliance history of an industrial user; and
         (h)   Whether an industrial user is making a good faith effort to
comply.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
§ 52.091 SEWER RATES.
   For the use of and service rendered by the sewer works, each user shall be
charged in an amount based upon a fee schedule, as provided by the most up to
date Sewer Rate Ordinance.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 6-22-1989; Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 1995-2,
passed 2-23-1995; Ord. 1996-5, passed 3-14-1996; Ord. 1997-18, passed 5-22-
1997; Ord. 2000-7, passed 9-14-2000; Ord. 2000-15, passed 1-11-2001; Ord. 2001-
9, passed 1-10-2002; Ord. 7-2012, passed 12-20-2012; Ord. 2013-6, passed 12-12-
2013; Ord. 4-2018, passed 7-26-2018)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be served by the town’s sanitary sewer system
with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for its satisfactory correction. The offender shall,
within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter set out
above and convicted thereof shall become liable to the town for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by reason of such violation.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Any person who violated any provisions of this chapter which, in the
judgment of the Town Council, requires the services of a commercial laboratory
shall be liable for all costs of such service.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 6-25-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, non-tandem,
two-wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that has
the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-
77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power;
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks;
      (3)   A wheelchair; or
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the town.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Cruising prohibited
   
71.52   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TRUCK. A vehicle having three axles or a vehicle over 10,000 gross
vehicle weight, and includes semi-trailer trucks and either the tractor pulling
the same, or the trailer itself. TRUCK includes every self-propelled commercial
vehicle designed, used or maintained for the commercial transport of goods or
property.
   (B)   Rule. No person shall operate a truck or vehicle as defined in
division (A) above within the corporate limits of the town except as provided
herein.
      (1)   Restricted travel. No person shall drive any truck or vehicle as
defined in division (A) above upon any public street of the town at any time;
provided, that such trucks or vehicles may be permitted upon such other public
streets of the town, upon the direction of a town, county or state police
officer, to follow a marked and established town detour, to obtain necessary
emergency mechanical repairs or, if for safety reasons, upon the prior approval
of the Town Engineer and the Marshal’s Department.
      (2)   Travel by shortest route.
         (a)   All trucks and vehicles shall proceed by the shortest
combination of state, county and federal highways and shall be prohibited from
driving upon any other town streets unless said vehicle is in the process of
delivering or picking up goods as further addressed in division (B)(3) below or
is itself in the process of being delivered.
         (b)   A written bill of lading or similar document must be produced by
the driver if stopped while driving on a town street to verify such pickup or
delivery.
      (3)   Egress from town.
         (a)   All trucks, as defined in division (A) above, when finished
delivering or picking up goods within the town, shall return to the nearest
non-town street by the most direct route unless the truck has a subsequent
delivery or pick-up scheduled within the immediate vicinity for that day.
         (b)   In such cases, the truck may proceed to a subsequent pick-up or
subsequent delivery location(s) only if all of the following conditions are
met: the driver has in his or her possession a written bill of lading or
similar document for the next subsequent delivery or will have a pick-up order
upon reaching said subsequent pick-up location(s); or the driver has in his or
her possession a written manifest or similar document which shows in clear and
plain English all of the scheduled delivery or pick-up location(s) for that
day.
      (4)   Documentation. Any truck driver who is stopped by a law enforcement
officer on a street and who does not have a written bill of lading and a
written manifest or similar documents as required by this section shall be in
violation of this section and shall be issued a citation.
      (5)   Blocking of town streets. No person shall stop, stand or park a
truck on any street, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
freight, except in cases of emergency when such truck is broken down and unable
to move, and except also in the event a moving van is loading or unloading
furniture and household goods, or the furniture and equipment and goods, wares
and merchandise of a business, in either of which events the operator of such
truck will have a reasonable time in which to complete his loading or unloading
and move his truck.
   (C)   Enforcement authority. The Marshal’s Department, Director of the Area
Plan Commission and the Nuisance Abatement Officer of the town (hereinafter
collectively called “officer”) are hereby authorized to enforce this section in
accord with the procedure described herein.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Vehicles licensed to operate upon trucks;
      (2)   Vehicles licensed to carry passengers for hire;
      (3)   Municipal government vehicles operating on official business;
      (4)   Farm equipment; or
      (5)   Public utility vehicles operating on official business.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway be
moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.51 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of §
71.01 shall be fined not less than $150 for the first offense, not less than
$250 for the second offense and not less than $350 for the third or subsequent
offense, or other such amounts as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time, with a citation being issued for each violation.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of any provision of §
71.01 shall be responsible for court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees for
prosecuting the action in court.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 10-14-2021)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C.9-18.5-8 or the laws of another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing.
      (1)   In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense.
      (2)   The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage fees
resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding an amount that shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Recreational vehicles generally
   
73.03   Recreational vehicles prohibited on trails and sidewalks
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Operation
   
73.17   Traffic and parking rules
   
73.18   Slow-moving vehicle signs
   
73.19   Inspection and permitting
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSE TRAILER.
      (1)   A vehicle-drawn trailer, built with or without household furniture
and designed to be used as a residence for one or more persons which is placed
on axles and wheels or may be placed upon a foundation, jacks and/or blocks,
either permanent or temporary.
      (2)   For additional information on house trailers and mobile homes, see
Chapter 153.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle with or without motive power equipped exclusively for
living quarters for persons traveling upon the highways.
      (2)   For the purpose of I.C. 9-13-2-150, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE does not
include a mobile structure (as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-17).
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 12-14-2000)
§ 73.02 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any recreational units owned or located at the property of any
resident of the town shall be kept and maintained in such a manner as to not
deter from the residential atmosphere of the community. The recreational unit
shall not be stored or located upon any easement within the town.
   (B)   The recreational unit shall at no time be placed in any manner so that
it may obstruct the view of any public right-of-way within the town. If any
recreational unit is found to be obstructing the view of any intersection as to
create a hazard in the community, the Police Department may cause the units
removal for the safety and well being of the community.
   (C)   All recreational units located within the town shall be licensed
through the State Department of Motor Vehicles or by other authority that is
authorized by the state code to license and or register vehicles.
   (D)   Any recreational unit may be utilized for temporary housing for
visitors at a residence located within the corporate boundaries of the town for
a period not to exceed 14 days. In case of an emergency, the property owner may
request an extension by contacting the Town Council. The extension shall be
issued in writing, with copies to the Town Council, Police Department and the
property owner. If a recreational unit is to be utilized it may be connected to
the electrical circuits of the residence, but at no time be allowed to connect
to or discharge any waste into the sewage system of the town.
   (E)   It shall be further ordained that any resident bringing a recreational
unit into the town for the purpose of restoration shall be limited to six
months to complete such restoration. The property owner may request an
extension for an additional period of six months from the Town Council.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 12-14-2000) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON TRAILS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The motorized vehicles defined in division (B) below are prohibited
from operating, parking or obstructing the use of public trails or sidewalks
within the right-of-way or easements which are either maintained or operated
by, or located within, the town. Also included in this prohibition shall be any
vehicle determined by a duly appointed officer of the Town Police Department
which is operated or parked in a manner that is detrimental to the safety and
well-being of pedestrians and bicyclists and restricts normal use of trail or
sidewalk.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BICYCLE POWERED WITH ENGINE OR MOTOR. Any motorized piece of equipment or
machinery, such as a two-cycle engine or larger that is being used for
transportation or travel purposes.
      FARM TRACTOR. A self-propelled implement of agriculture designed and used
primarily as a farm implement for drawing implements of agriculture used on a
farm and, when using the highways, in traveling from one field or farm to
another or to or from places of repairs.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck, trailer or semitrailer and tractor used for the
transportation of farm products, livestock or machinery or supplies to or from
a farm or ranch. The term includes a covered farm vehicle (as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5). The term does not include an implement of agriculture. The
terms may be referred to collectively as FARM VEHICLES.
      FARM VEHICLE LOADED WITH A FARM PRODUCT. Includes a truck hauling
unprocessed leaf tobacco.
      GOLF CART. Includes any modified version and means a four-wheeled motor
vehicle originally and specifically designed and intended to transport one or
more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on
a golf course.
      LOW-SPEED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A four-wheeled electrically powered motor vehicle:
            1.   With a maximum design speed of not more than 25 mph;
            2.   With operational and equipment specifications described in 49
C.F.R. § 571.500;
            3.   Equipped with:
               a.   Headlamps;
               b.   Front and rear turn signal lamps, tail lamps and stop
lamps;
               c.   Reflex reflectors;
               d.   Exterior or interior mirrors;
               e.   Brakes, as specified in I.C. 9-19-3-1;
               f.   A windshield;
               g.   A vehicle identification number; and
               h.   A safety belt installed at each designated seating
position.
            4.   That has not been privately assembled as described in I.C. 9-
17-4-1.
         (b)   The term does not include a golf cart or an off-road vehicle.
      MOTORCYCLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle with motive power that: has a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider; is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground; and satisfies the operational and equipment
specifications described in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
         (b)   The term includes an autocycle but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle or a motor driven cycle.
      MOTOR SCOOTER. A Class A motor driven cycle; or a Class B motor driven
cycle. MOTOR SCOOTER does not include an electric bicycle
      MOTOR VEHICLE.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a vehicle that is
self-propelled.
         (b)   The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter or an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
   (C)   This section shall not restrict use by personal mobility devices which
operate in accordance with the needs and requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) from operating on public trails and sidewalks.
   (D)   This section shall not restrict the following:
      (1)   Use of trails by manually powered bicycles;
      (2)   Any vehicle defined above from crossing a trail or existing
driveway or entrance to access a private or public property; or
      (3)   Use of trail by publicly owned emergency or publicly owned
maintenance vehicles.
   (E)   Enforcement powers granted to the Town Police Department shall include
the authority to cite parents or legal guardians of a minor or other party
operating a motorized vehicle in violation of this section.
   (F)   The Town Police Department is hereby granted the power and authority
by this section to seize or impound any motorized vehicle operating in
violation of this section.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-25-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license, issued by Indiana or any other state, to
operate a motor vehicle.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required applicable by state law for motor vehicles
operated on public highways within the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels originally designed for operation on a
golf course and powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 73.16 OPERATION.
   (A)   Operation of golf cart. The operation of a golf cart within the town
is strictly prohibited unless said golf cart is operated and equipped in full
compliance with all of the terms and conditions set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Operator. Only persons over 16 years of age who hold a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart upon the streets, roadways, intersections and
alleys located within the town.
   (C)   Financial responsibility. The operator of a golf cart must be able to
show financial responsibility when operating a golf cart. Written proof of
financial responsibility must be available either by placing the same on the
golf cart or by carrying by the operator of said golf cart at all times.
   (D)   Time of operation and lights. A golf cart may not be operated on the
streets, roadways, intersections or alleys located within the town during the
period commencing with that time which is 30 minutes after sunset and ending at
that time which is 30 minutes before sunrise. Every golf cart shall be equipped
with two operating headlights one of which being located on each side of the
front of the golf cart and two operating taillights with brake lights and
operating turn signals one of which being located on each side of the rear of
the golf cart, which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (E)   Place of operation. A golf cart may be operated on town streets,
roadways and alleys which have a posted speed limit of 30 mph or less, or at
and through intersections of such streets, roadways and alleys. A golf cart may
not, in any circumstances, be operated on sidewalks, the switch trail or along
national or state highways located within the town; provided, however, that a
golf cart may be operated through intersections with national or state highways
located within the town. Said national and state highways include, without
limitation, State Road 18.
   (F)   Occupants.
      (1)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the
number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and shall in no event
exceed four persons. No person under two years of age shall be permitted to
ride in a golf cart
      (2)    No person under ten years of age shall be permitted to ride on the
rear seat of a golf cart. The operator of a golf cart and all occupants of said
golf cart shall be seated in said golf cart, and no part of the body of the
operator or any occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of said golf cart
while said golf cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES.
   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with all traffic and parking rules
and regulations adopted by the town or the state which govern the operation and
parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 73.18 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGNS.
   A golf cart must display a “slow moving vehicle” sign on both the front and
rear of said golf cart. Said sign shall be of the same type required under
applicable state law.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 73.19 INSPECTION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   A golf cart must be inspected on an annual basis by the Police
Department of the town during the period of May 1 through May 31 of each year.
The inspection cost shall be an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time per golf cart per inspection. The purpose of the annual
inspection shall be to determine whether a golf cart is safe and in compliance
with the terms and provisions of this chapter and any other applicable laws of
the state. Said inspection shall include a review of the financial
responsibility associated with the golf cart.
   (B)   The Police Department of the town shall maintain a record on
inspections. Upon completion of an adequate inspection, a golf cart shall be
registered by the Police Department of the town and shall be issued a permit
for operation from the date of inspection in May through the following 12-month
period expiring in May of the following year. Said permit shall be posted in
plain view on the rear of the golf cart at all times. A late fee in an amount
that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time will be accessed for
all inspections occurring after May 31 or occurring 30 days after the initial
acquisition of such golf cart.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any provision of §
73.02 shall be fined in an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.03 commits an infraction and may be fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
   (D)   A violation of any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.19 shall constitute a violation of this code. Upon a finding of such a
violation, an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time. Each and every independent violation shall constitute a new and separate
offense. If two or more violations occur in one calendar year in connection
with one golf cart, said golf cart’s permit shall be suspended for a period of
one calendar year, beginning with the date of the occurrence of last violation.
Said suspension shall not effect the annual inspection requirements set forth
in §
73.19. In addition to the foregoing, a golf cart that is in violation of any
provision of §§
73.15 through
73.19 or which is operated by a person found to be in violation of §§
73.15 through
73.19 may be towed at the discretion of the Police Department of the town. Said
golf cart shall not be returned to its owner until all penalties have been paid
and, if applicable, said owner has provided proof that the circumstances giving
ride to the violation of §§
73.15 through
73.19 have been corrected.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 12-14-2000; Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-9-2010; Ord. 2021-1,
passed 3-25-2021)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic control signs
   
II.   Snow routes
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS.
   The Town Council, acting within reasonable exercise of its police power,
hereby adopts the following regulations governing certain roads and streets
within the town under its jurisdiction.
   (A)   Upon Greenburg Street from its intersection with Main Street to its
intersection with Greenberry Street, vehicular traffic shall move only in east
to west direction. In addition, all vehicles upon Greenburg Street coming from
Main Street on Greenburg Street shall stop before entering or crossing
Greenberry Street.
   (B)   All roads and streets listed below are designated as preferential
highways. All vehicles shall stop before or crossing a preferential highway, as
indicated by signs posted at or upon the entrance to those highways:
      (1)   Broadway Street;
      (2)   Craven Street;
      (3)   Jackson Street;
      (4)   Main Street;
      (5)   Meridian Street;
      (6)   Greenberry Street;
      (7)   Osborn Drive;
      (8)   Allen Drive;
      (9)   Laura Lane;
      (10)   Pennsylvania;
      (11)   Wes Way;
      (12)   Delphi Pike;
      (13)   Elm Street; and
      (14)   Eagle Drive.
   (C)   The intersection of Greenberry Street and Hubert Street, Greenberry
Street and Sherron Street, Davis Street and Meridian Street, Sherron Street and
Meridian Street, and Greenberry Street and Franklin Street shall all be and
hereby designated as a four-way stop intersection. Every vehicle at these
intersections shall stop.
   (D)   All vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Main Street and
Peterson Drive from all directions.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be fined an
amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time and all fines
collected. All fines collected shall be deposited in the General Fund. Such
violations of the provisions of this schedule shall be enforced pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 34-28-5-1 and 36-1-6-3(c) in the Gas City Municipal Court or
such other court as may be designated subsequently by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-10-2015)
SCHEDULE II. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The Town Council President or the Vice President of the Town Council,
in the absence of the Council President, may declare a snow emergency when the
weather conditions exist or threaten to exist that may substantially impede the
free flow of traffic on town streets as a result of the accumulation of snow or
ice.
   (B)   No person shall, within two hours after the declaration of the snow
emergency by the Town Council President and/or Vice President, park or cause a
vehicle to remain upon any street designated as a snow emergency route.
   (C)   The following roads and streets listed below are designated as snow
emergency routes:
      (1)   Broadway Street;
      (2)   Craven Street;
      (3)   Jackson Street;
      (4)   Main Street;
      (5)   Meridian Street;
      (6)   Greenberry Street;
      (7)   Osborn Drive;
      (8)   Allen Drive;
      (9)   Laura Lane;
      (10)   Pennsylvania;
      (11)   Wes Way;
      (12)   Delphi Pike;
      (13)   Elm;
      (14)   Eagle;
      (15)   Ryan;
      (16)   Scott;
      (17)   Maple; and
      (18)   DeVoe.
   (D)   The Town Maintenance Manager shall cause signs to be erected and
maintained on roads and streets designating them as snow emergency routes.
   (E)   A snow emergency shall remain in effect until cancelled by the Town
Council President and/or Vice President.
   (F)   In addition to the above mentioned snow emergency routes, the Town
Council President and/or Vice President may designate any other town roads or
streets as snow emergency routes after a snow emergency has been declared.
   (G)   The Town Marshal or any member of the Police Department may remove or
cause to be removed, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle remaining on a snow
emergency route after the declaration of a snow emergency.
   (H)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be fined an
amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. All fines
collected shall be deposited in the General Fund. Such violations of the
provisions of this schedule shall be enforced pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5-1 and 36-1-6-3(c) in the Gas City Municipal Court or such other
court as may be designated subsequently by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-10-2015)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph on any
street or alley in the town, except for the following locations.
Street Speed Limit
Street           Speed Limit
Allen            30 mph
Catherine        30 mph
DeVoe            30 mph
Eagle Drive      30 mph
Elm              30 mph
Laura            30 mph
Main Street      25 mph
                 20 mph during school hours, at designated school zones
Maple            30 mph
Nancy            30 mph
Ryan             25 mph
Scott            25 mph
State Highway 18 25 mph
Winger           25 mph
 
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this schedule shall be fined in
an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time and all fines
collected shall be deposited in the General Fund. Such violations of the
provisions of this schedule shall be enforces pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5-1 and 36-1-6-3(c) in the Gas City Municipal Court or such other
court as may be designated subsequently by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-13, passed 12-10-2015)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, on the following streets or portion of streets in the
town.
 
Street       Location                         Restriction
                                              No part of a parked vehicle shall
             Intersection with the former CSX protrude within 22 feet of either
Main Street  crossing                         side of the intersection unless
                                              such parking is in a designated
                                              parking area
             On the East side and the West
Main Street  side from its intersection with  No parking unless such parking is
             Davis Street to its intersection in a designated parking area
             with State Road 18
             100 block between 100 South Main
North Main   at Penn Street North to Miller   No parking
             Street on East or West of the
             right-of-way
             On the South side, from its
Pennsylvania intersection with Main Street to No parking
             its intersection with South
             Greenberry Street
 
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle whether it is
attended or unattended, on any property owned by, or under the control of any
department of the town at any time unless otherwise allowed by this schedule or
by an ordinance amending this schedule.
   (C)   The Town Marshal or members of the Town Police Department is hereby
authorized to have vehicles removed that are parked in violation of this
schedule, at the vehicle owners expense, or to require the owner or other
person in control of the vehicle to move the vehicle.
   (D)   The stopping, standing and parking limitations set forth in this
schedule does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in I.C. 9-
13-2-6.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be fined an
amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time on first offense
and another such amount on second offense. All fines collected shall be
deposited in the General Fund. Such violations of the provisions of this
schedule shall be enforced pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5-1 and 36-
1-6-3(c) in the Gas City Municipal Court or such other court as may be
designated subsequently by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 12-10-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and left on private property continuously in a location visible from
public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7), a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or textile
covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee or a member of the Town
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2(2) and (3))
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2
(before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a
snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196)
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-13-2-3 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34 or a military
vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed an amount that shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing
service shall notify the appropriate public agency of all releases under this
section. The notification must include the name, signature and address of the
person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle
or parts, costs and the date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts thereof is of a certain amount that shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or
parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72
hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage
yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a
storage yard or towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D), or
90.07(C) or (D), the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing service shall
conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System or an
equivalent and commonly available database to attempt to obtain the last state
of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address
of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than three business
days after obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and
any lienholder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or
discovered by a search under division (A)(1) above, of the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11 LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §
90.06(C), (D) and (E), §
90.08 and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals
   
91.03   Unrestrained animals prohibited; impounding
   
91.04   Nuisance animals
   
91.05   Animal bites; quarantine; rabies vaccination
   
91.06   Abuse, cruelty, neglect and mistreatment
   
91.07   Additional prohibitions and requirements
   
91.08   Enforcement
Dogs
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.22   Running at large prohibited
   
91.23   Dogs in heat; confinement
   
91.24   Vicious canines
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of terminating his or her ownership for 72 hours, but without
vesting possession in any other person.
   ANIMAL. Any living non-human, warm blooded, vertebrate creature or reptile,
domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Persons designated by the Animal Control Service to
enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICE. The persons, partnership, corporation, association
or society designated by the Town Council to enforce this chapter, which shall
be the Marion Animal Care and Control until such time as changed by the action
of the Town Council.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the town as a site for impounding
and caring for animals confined under this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring or keeping any animal.
   RESTRAINT. Confinement of the animal to the premises of the owner. If the
animal is not on the premises of the owner, RESTRAINT means the animal shall be
accompanied by a responsible person as the owners agent who shall keep the
animal on a leash or chain, or confinement in a fenced area.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall place or keep any of the following animals with the
limits of the town: any hoofed animals, including, but not limited to equine
(horses, mules), porcine (pigs), bovine (cattle), sheep or goats. This section
shall not apply to ducks, geese, chickens or swans, which are confined in an
owner’s yard containing a pond or other water area.
   (B)   Any chicken confined in an owner’s yard shall satisfy the following
requirements:
      (1)   Limit the number of chicken(s) to no more than ten per dwelling
place;
      (2)   No roosters shall be allowed;
      (3)   Make application and obtain a permit from the Clerk/Treasurer for
an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time each year
payable to the town. The application shall be in a form and substance created
by the Town Clerk;
      (4)   All chickens shall be completely enclosed in a coop with a total
enclosed space of at least five square feet per chicken. The coop shall
contained fenced walls and roof;
      (5)   No free-range chickens shall be allowed; and
      (6)   The dwelling owner shall consent to inspection of the coop at the
time of making application for the permit.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 UNRESTRAINED ANIMALS PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to keep any of his or her animals under restraint.
   (B)   Unrestrained animals may be taken by the Town Police Department or the
Animal Control Officer and impounded in an animal shelter, and there confined
in a humane manner. Impounded animals shall be kept for not less than 72 hours
unless reclaimed by their owners. Animals not reclaimed by their owners within
72 hours may be humanely disposed of by the Animal Control Service or adopted
by a new owner.
   (C)   (1)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a fee to the
Town Police Department or Town Clerk-Treasurer in an amount that shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time per day or the then current charge of the
Animal Control Service. Upon payment, a receipt shall be issued to the owner.
      (2)   If those fees are not paid, the animal shall be humanely disposed
of or adopted by a new owner. The owner shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance
violation.
   (D)   (1)   Every female dog and cat in estrus (heat) shall be confined in a
building or secure enclosure (for the purpose of this section, a chain or fence
shall not be considered a SECURE ENCLOSURE unless it is enclosed on all six
sides), so that an owner who reclaims an animal in heat within 72 hours of
impoundment must leave the animal in the shelter until the animal is no longer
in heat, at the cost equal to the cost of housing at the Animal Control Service
in an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time or the
current charge of the Animal Control Service.
      (2)   If the owner shows proof of spaying or neutering the animal within
15 days after reclaiming, the boarding costs will be refunded to the owner.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   No owner shall allow his or her animals to become a public nuisance. Animals
who engage in excessive, continuous or untimely barking, harassing persons,
chasing vehicles, trespassing, damaging private property shall be deemed a
public nuisance and shall be impounded at the discretion of the Animal Control
Officer.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE; RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   (1)   The person responsible for any animal which has bitten a person
or another animal must report the incident to the Animal Control Service or
local law enforcement. Any animal which bites a person or which has possibly
been exposed to rabies shall be quarantined for not less than ten days in an
animal shelter, in a kennel or with a veterinarian.
      (2)   During quarantine, if the animal is confined in the animal shelter,
a charge equal to the actual costs of housing the animal, in an amount that
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time per day or the current
charge of the Animal Control Service. Also, during the quarantine period, the
owner must provide current rabies vaccination certificate for his or her cat or
dog that is being quarantined.
      (2)   If proof of vaccination cannot be supplied, the animal will be
vaccinated by a veterinarian at the owner’s expense before release. Upon
receiving information about the animal which has bitten a person or which has
possibly been exposed to rabies, the Police Department shall notify the animal
shelter. If a veterinarian determines that an animal in quarantine is a
possible rabies earner, the County Health Officer shall be notified. Any
necessary action shall be to confirm the diagnosis and disposal of the animal.
   (B)   Each owner of a dog/cat which dog/cat is above the age of six months
must procure a rabies vaccination for the animal in compliance with state law.
At the time of the vaccination, the owner shall purchase a rabies tag from the
veterinarian. The animal must wear the tag at all times.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 91.06 ABUSE, CRUELTY, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No owner shall recklessly fail to provide animals with
sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection
from the weather. This means at least a three-sided, roofed doghouse.
Veterinary care, when needed, shall be provided to prevent suffering, for
humane care and treatment.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment,
overload, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal, or cause or permit any dog
fight, cock fight or other combat between animals. No owner of any animal shall
abandon that animal. No person other than a licensed veterinarian shall crop a
dog’s ears.
   (B)   No animal shall be tied, fastened by any rope, chain or cord that is
directly attached to the animal’s neck. Animals that must belied or fastened to
be restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or harness made of leather
or nylon, not of the choker type. This is not to prohibit the proper use of
choker collars in the training of animals. The tying device shall be attached
to the animal’s collar or harness and shall be at least 12 feet of free length.
No animal will be tethered for 24 hours per day. Reasonable exercise will be
provided for the animal by its owner.
   (C)   (1)   Animals found in cruel, abusive, neglectful situations or
abandoned, as defined in §
91.01, may be promptly impounded if no immediate contact with a responsible
person can be made; provided, however, that the Animal Control Officer shall
attempt to leave written notice on the door of the residence saying the
location of the animal and the reason for impoundment.
      (2)   Animals so removed will be impounded and held at the Animal Control
Service or a designated facility until such time the violator is in compliance
with this chapter; provided, however, that in no event shall this period exceed
ten days, at which time the animal shall become the property of the Animal
Control Service, unless an extension in time is necessary for the Animal
Control Officer to have ample time to prepare a court case if prosecution is
warranted.
      (3)   Animals impounded for reasons beyond the control of the owner, such
as, but not limited to, quarantine, house fire, death of the owner or arrest of
the owner, will be held for ten days during which time a reasonable effort will
be made to contact the owner and/or representative.
      (3)   After the tenth day of impoundment, the animal will become the
property of the Animal Control Service. Animals awaiting disposition by the
court shall remain in custody of the Animal Control Service, unless such
disposition is made, or placed in a foster home until legal arrangements have
been completed. Animals so removed may be transported to a licensed
veterinarian for examination and/or treatment. If, in the opinion of said
veterinarian, the animal must be destroyed, euthanasia will be performed
immediately. Costs of treatment, euthanasia and/or care shall be responsibility
of the owner or owner’s agent.
   (D)   All animals kept inside or in a pen, tied or fastened, leashed or
enclosed by a fence shall be kept in a sanitary manner. The persons responsible
for the animals shall regularly clean as often as necessary to prevent odor or
health and sanitation problems and shall regularly maintain all areas of the
animal’s confinement.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons responsible for an animal shall immediately remove the
animal’s excrement from public lands, sidewalks and the right-of-way (property
between sidewalks and the streets) or from the property of another, excepting a
visually impaired person working with service dogs.
   (B)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who causes injury or death to an
animal shall stop at once, assess the extent of the injury and immediately
notify the owner, or the Animal Control Service or the Police Department.
   (C)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle in excessive heat (as
defined in the standardized veterinarians report) or when these conditions in
the vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance for any person to use, place, set or cause to be set within the town
or upon lands owned by the town any traps except cage-type traps approved by
the Animal Control Service and used for the control of unrestrained or
potentially dangerous animals.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to any trap specifically designed
to kill rats, mice, gophers or moles so long as the owner of the property is
aware of the location where the trap(s) are set and monitors said trap(s) at
least once every 24 hours.
      (3)   Traps discovered by the Animal Control Service to have been
unlawfully set in the town may be seized and used as prima facie evidence that
a violation has been committed. Upon conviction, said trap(s) shall be
forfeited to the town and disposed of by the Animal Control Service.
   (E)   Any person who shall become apprised of the death of any animal owned
by him or her shall, within 12 hours thereafter, cause the same to be removed
from the premises and taken to the Animal Control Service, veterinarian or
cemetery for disposal.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall have police powers in the enforcement
of this section.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse the Humane
Officer in the exercise of these powers. Police powers shall not include the
right to carry or use firearms to enforce this chapter unless that Animal
Control Officer is a law enforcement officer as defined by I.C. 35-31.5-2-185.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022)
DOGS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.21 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 VICIOUS CANINES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      VICIOUS CANINES.
         (a)   Any canine which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority:
            1.   Did bite or attack once, causing wounds or injuries creating a
potential danger to the health or life of a human being without provocation in
a public or private place where the persons was conducting himself or herself
peacefully and lawfully;
            2.   Requires defensive action by a person to prevent physical
injury or property damage, where the dog has acted without provocation, in a
public or private place where the person was conducting himself or herself
peacefully and lawfully; and/or
            3.   Could not be controlled or be restrained at the time of a bite
or attack upon an animal or person.
         (b)   Any canine owned, harbored or trained primarily or in part for
the purpose of canine fighting.
         (c)   This definition shall not apply to animals under the control of
a law enforcement or military agency;
   (B)   Designation. A canine shall be declared a vicious canine only after
the Animal Control Service has received an affidavit of complaint by an
individual under oath, stating all pertinent facts to support the allegation
that the canine is vicious. The Animal Control Service shall file a complaint
if valid; and the Animal Control Service shall file a complaint in a court of
general jurisdiction. The court, after hearing all the evidence, shall make the
final determination as to whether the dog qualifies as a vicious canine.
   (C)   Requirements. Any owner of a dog which qualifies under the statute as
a vicious canine must:
      (1)   Register the canine with the Animal Control Service within three
months of the effective date of this section, which registration shall include
two color photographs of the canine;
      (2)   Notify the Animal Control Service immediately if the canine is
given or sold to a new owner, at this time providing the Animal Control Service
with the new owner’s name, address and telephone number. Registration will
continue, but the new owner must comply with the other provisions of this
section;
      (3)   Notify the Animal Control Service immediately if the canine becomes
loose or unconfined, attacks livestock, another domestic animal or a human
being or inflicts and causes property damage;
      (4)   Notify the Animal Control Service of all offspring born to the
canine;
      (5)   Notify the Animal Control Service of the death of the canine;
      (6)   Confine the canine in a humane way on the inside or outside of the
owner’s property, in a secure enclosure (as described in § 91.03(E)) so that it
cannot escape of its own violation. The owner’s property must contain a sign
saying “Beware of Dog” and which is easily readable to the public;
      (7)   Allow the canine to go off of the owner’s premises only when it is
muzzled and kept on a leash or restraint, more than six feet long, under the
control of a responsible person;
      (8)   The canine must be “tattooed” or have a microchip placed in the
animal by a licensed veterinarian; and
      (9)   Upon a second unrelated bite conviction, the canine may become the
property of the Animal Control Service, by order of the court for euthanasia.
   (D)   Violations. A violation of this section shall be subject to the
penalties described in all other parts of this chapter. In addition, the judge
in his or her discretion can order the canine impounded in the Animal Control
Service, at the owner’s expense, until the owner complies with the terms of
this section, or can order the destruction of the animal when necessary, to
preserve the public health, safety and the welfare of the community.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.08 may be issued a citation or a warning instead of a citation as deemed
appropriate by the investigating Animal Control Officer. Upon conviction of the
citation, the violator shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense,
$75 for the second offense, $125 for the third offense and $250 for the fourth
offense; such amounts are subject to change and shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time. Each day any violation continues or occurs shall be
deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 9-22-2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Application; prohibited activity
   
92.04   Determination of violation; notice; abatement
   
92.05   Enforcement
   
92.06   Property owner objection
   
92.07   Noise violations
Weeds
   
92.20   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.21   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.22   Filing complaint
   
92.23   Notice of violations
   
92.24   Appeals
   
92.25   Abatement by town
   
92.26   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to protect the
public safety, health, welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the
town by making it unlawful for any person to maintain, use, create, cause,
place, deposit, leave or permit a nuisance to remain on any property and to
promote the health and general welfare of the people of the town.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE. An individual designated to make the necessary
inspections or any individual(s) of any governmental department of the town,
which department has been designated by the Town Council to enforce this
subchapter.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any of the following constitute an
environmental public nuisance:
      (1)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation on private or
governmental property which is neglected, disregarded or not cut, mowed or
otherwise removed and/or which has attained a height of nine inches or more;
      (2)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, brush, trees or woody growth
on private or governmental property, compost piles excepted;
      (3)   Any poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plant or plants
detrimental to health, growing on any private or governmental property; or
      (4)   Any vegetation, trees or woody growth on private property which due
to its proximity to any governmental property, right-of-way or easement,
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the governmental property,
right-of-way or easement or which has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY. Any of the following may constitute EXCLUDED PROPERTY
from being considered an environmental public nuisance:
      (1)   Land cultivated in a commercial, agricultural or horticultural
zone;
      (2)   An existing natural or developed forest which does not create a
health or safety hazard;
      (3)   Vacant open lands, fields or wooded areas more than 150 feet from
occupied property;
      (4)   A nature habitat area more than 150 feet from an occupied structure
or adjacent property and determined not to be a health or safety hazard; and
      (5)   A wetland designated by United States Department of Interior Fish
and Wildlife Division on a National Wetlands Inventory Map.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate within the town which is owned, leased,
controlled or occupied by the United States or the state, or any political
subdivision thereof.
   OFFICER. An employee of the government department of the town so designated
by the Town Council having law enforcement powers to issue a town ordinance
violation summons in order to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   OWNER. Shall be presumed to be any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the Township Assessor’s office of the township in which the real estate is
located; or
      (3)   The purchaser(s) of such real estate under any contract for
conditional sale thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the town except governmental
property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as essentially to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      (2)   The following is a list of PUBLIC NUISANCES, but does not limit the
conditions constituting a nuisance under this section:
         (a)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, ashes, filth, excrement, boards, slops, cinders, old
tires, pallets, sawdust, wood or metal shavings, rubber, boxes, barrels,
crates, cans, bottles, cartons, paper, debris, manure, grass cuttings, tree
limbs, discarded food, clothing or any other offensive or disagreeable
substance (meaning not orderly, stacked, packed, racked, stored or in
containers, compost piles excepted);
         (b)   Any condition which provides harborage of rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin;
         (c)   Disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of those odors and stenches; other than that which originate from
customary agricultural or industrial practice;
         (d)   Carcasses of animals or fowls, not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
         (e)   Buildings, structures or other places and locations where any
violation of federal, state or town law is conducted, maintained or performed.
         (f)   Accumulation of stagnant water;
         (g)   Any abandoned, unattended or discarded freezer, refrigerator or
other container which has an airtight door or lid, without first removing the
door or lid from the freezer, refrigerator or container;
         (h)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of the people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in
the vicinity where it is located;
      (i)   The unauthorized obstruction of any public street, road, alley or
sidewalk;
      (j)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial waste or other
substances;
      (k)   No trash, refuse or garbage shall be removed, hauled or conveyed
within the town limits, unless the vehicles used for removal, hauling or
conveying is tightly covered by screen and driven in a manner that, none of the
contents may be spilled, dropped or blown from it;
      (l)   It shall be a nuisance to permit furniture designed for interior
use or household furnishing to be sit or be places outside any structure,
unless placed for refuse collections;
      (m)   It shall be a nuisance to maintain a swimming pool 42 inches or
more deep without being secured by fences or gates; and
      (n)   It shall be a nuisance to fill land with materials other than that
allowed by state code.
   TOWN. The Town of Sweetser, Indiana.
   TRAFFIC HAZARD. Any environmental public nuisance that is potentially
dangerous to the existing traffic at the intersection in question as it may
block or prohibit the view of any oncoming traffic.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 APPLICATION; PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the United States or the state, or any
political subdivision thereof, shall be required to keep governmental property
free from public nuisances and/or environmental public nuisances. Any owner of
private property shall be required to keep that private property free from
public nuisances and/or environmental public nuisances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of private property or government
property to allow a public nuisance or an environmental public nuisance to
exist on that property, unless that property is excluded property.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION; NOTICE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   The Town Council shall forward any complaint to the authorized
employee and/or officer for processing, who in turn shall visually inspect the
property in question.
      (2)   If the employee and/or officer determines that a violation exists,
he, she or they shall issue a notice of violation as provided below.
   (B)   Notice to abate. When a complaint addresses a private property, the
authorized employee and/or officer through the Town Council shall cause a
written notice to abate to be served upon the owner of the property in
question, granting that owner a minimum of ten calendar days in which to remove
the public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance. This notice shall be
served by certified mail, return receipt requested, and first class mail to the
owner, and by a notice place card conspicuously posted on the property which
mail or notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The address of the property;
      (2)   The date of the notice and the name of the employee or officer of
the town enforcing this subchapter;
      (3)   The address of the town; and
      (4)   The telephone number of the town authorized employee and/or officer
and warning that if the public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance is
not removed within ten calendar days after the posting, the town has the right
to enter on the property to abate and/or correct the condition and to bill the
owner for costs incurred in so doing by the Clerk-Treasurer by filing a lien
with the County Auditor for collection as real estate property taxes and/or
file a complaint against the owner for ordinance violation to collect the costs
incurred to abate and or corrected the condition together with attorneys’ fees
and court costs.
   (C)   Inspection. Following the expiration of the notice to abate, the
authorized employee and/or officer shall visually inspect the property to
determine whether such a public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance
still exists. If such nuisance exists, action shall be taken to abate the
nuisance in accordance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Exception of notice to abate requirement. If the employee and/or
officer finds a violation which constitutes a traffic hazard, the authorized
employee and/or officer shall find it necessary to waive the ten-day grace
period and to abate the problem as soon as possible.
   (E)   Publication of notice on certain environmental public nuisances.
      (1)   In addition to the notice required by division (A) above, the town,
through the authorized employee and/or officer, may publish notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town on two separate occasions during
the month of April that, if any environmental public nuisance violations are
not corrected by June 1 of that year, such violations shall be cut and/or
removed by the town and the owner of the property charged with the costs under
the provision of §
92.05.
      (2)   The publication shall contain all the information required of the
notice to abate in public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance
violations such as weeds, grass or other rank vegetation and shall allow the
town to correct such violations such as many times as is necessary to comply
with this subchapter and charge such costs to the property owner together with
attorneys’ fees and court costs.
      (3)   Such publication shall supplement and publicize the continuing
notice to abate as mentioned in division (F) below.
   (F)   Continuous abatement notice on certain environmental public nuisances.
After providing an initial notice of the violation of an environmental public
nuisance such as weeds, grass or other rank vegetation under division (B)
above, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the properly at the time
of abatement instead of certified mail, return receipt requested, or first
class mail. Such continuous abatement notice shall allow the town to correct
such violation as many times as necessary to comply with this subchapter and
charge the actual costs to the owner.
   (G)   Abatement by town on governmental property. Where the complaint for
nuisance addresses governmental property and it is determined by the authorized
employee and or officer that it exists and threatens the health and/or safety
of the people of the town, the authorized employee and/or officer may direct
the town to immediately enter upon the premises and remove the public nuisance
and/or environmental public nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014)
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Lien on real estate. If the authorized employee and/or officer finds
that the public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance exists on private
property and has not been abated as directed in the written notice to abate,
the employee and/or officer through the Clerk-Treasurer of the town may certify
to the County Auditor of all costs of abatement and correction together with
administrative costs incurred in the certification. The County Auditor shall
place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property
affected, and such total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
   (B)   Complaint for violation and recovery of costs. If the authorized
employee and/or officer finds that a public nuisance and/or environmental
public nuisance exists on private property and has not been abated as directed
in the written notice to abate, the employee and/or officer may cause a
complaint for violation of a town ordinance to be issued to the offending
property owner.
   (C)   Abatement by town on private property. In addition to the issuance of
a complaint for the violation of a town ordinance under division (A) above, the
employee may determine than an emergency exists and direct the town to
immediately enter upon the property and remove the public nuisance and/or
environmental public nuisance. The employee shall thereafter furnish the Town
Council with a statement of actual costs involved in the removal of such
nuisance. The actual abatement may be assigned to a town department or
contracted out through standard procedures.
   (D)   Responsibility of offender for costs of enforcement.
      (1)   The Town Council shall make a statement of the costs incurred in
eliminating the public nuisance and/or environmental public nuisance. The costs
shall include: cost of removal of such public nuisance, administrative fees,
attorneys’ fees if court ordered enforcement is necessary and all recording
fees associated with the collection of the outstanding balances.
      (2)   The following amounts are subject to change, and shall be set by
the Town Council from time to time. The following fees shall be costs charged
to:
                    These fees would cover such
                    administration tasks as inspecting
                    the property to determine violation,
Administrative fees to determine compliance, determining  $500
                    ownership and preparing and mailing
                    notices. No fee would be charged if
                    no violation is found:
                    The following equipment fees per
                    machine, per hour or fraction
                    thereof, for the use of each piece of  
                    equipment necessary to abate the
                    public and/ or environmental
Equipment fees      nuisance:
                    Backhoe                               $30 (or current rate)
                    Dump truck                            $30 (or current rate)
                    Loader                                $30 (or current rate)
                    Packer                                $30 (or current rate)
                    Pick-up                               $20 (or current rate)
                    Trash/bush hog                        $30 (or current rate)
                    The following labor fees per person,
                    per hour or fraction thereof for
                    labor necessary to abate a public      
Labor and fees      nuisance and/or environmental public
                    nuisance:
                    Operator/driver/labor with CDL        $28 (or current rate)
                    Operator/drive/labor without CDL      $28 (or current rate)
                    Supervisor                            $38 (or current rate)
Any land filling fees actually incurred to dispose of litter and waste products
removed
Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating such nuisance. Said
statement shall be delivered to the property owner(s) by first class mail. The
owner(s) shall pay the amount noted to the town within ten days after receipt,
which shall be deposited in the General Fund
 
   (E)   Failure to pay. If the owner fails to pay the amount within ten days
after receiving the statement, the Town Council may institute action necessary
to collect the debt as follows.
      (1)   A copy of all costs of abatement and correction may be filed in the
office of the Auditor of the county by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for the
purpose of placing the amount claimed on the tax, duplicate against the
property, so that the amount claimed can be collected as real estate property
taxes are collected.
      (2)   The town may file a complaint for recovery of all costs of
abatement and correction, together with attorneys’ fees and court costs in the
county courts, together with a complaint for violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014)
§ 92.06 PROPERTY OWNER OBJECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate, the property owner or their duly
authorized representative may notify the Town Council of an intent to object to
any notice to abate.
   (B)   This correspondence shall be in writing and shall specify the street
address involved. Any such correspondence must be received by the Town Council
within the amount of time set out in the notice to abate.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Town Council shall provide
copies of same to the Town Attorney and to the office involved in the
violation, who shall cause the objection to be investigated. No further action
shall be pursued against the owner to abate the public nuisance and/or
environmental public nuisance until resolution of the objection thereto.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014)
§ 92.07 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sound amplifications in a residence.
      (1)   Uncontrolled sound disturbs the peace and tranquility of persons
and neighborhoods within the vicinity of the sound and limits a person’s
enjoyment of their personal property. Noise from sound amplification systems
cannot be practically regulated by imposing decibel limits as decibel
measurements are difficult to obtain without additional training and equipment.
Noises prohibited by this section are in violation of this section.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM means
any device, instrument or system, whether electrical or mechanical or otherwise
for amplifying sound or for producing or reproducing sound, including, but not
limited to, any radio, stereo, musical instrument, compact disc or sound or
musical recorder or player.
   (B)   Sound amplification in a residence limitations on use. No person shall
play any radio, music player, television, audio system or musical instrument in
such a manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
neighboring inhabitants or at a volume which is plainly audible to persons 25
feet beyond the property line during the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 11:00 p.m.,
or which is plainly audible to persons beyond the property line during the
hours of 11:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Sound amplification systems in vehicles; findings; definitions.
      (1)   Uncontrolled sound amplification systems in vehicles disturb the
peace and tranquility of persons and neighborhoods within the vicinity of the
sound and create a traffic safety hazard. Excessively loud sound amplification
systems distract other drivers and interfere with the sounds of police and
emergency vehicles
      (2)    Noise from sound amplification systems in vehicles cannot be
practically regulated by imposing decibel limits, as decibel measurements are
difficult to obtain from moving vehicles. Noises prohibited by this section are
in violation of this section.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM means
any device, instrument or system, whether electrical or mechanical or otherwise
for amplifying sound or for producing or reproducing sound, including, but not
limited to, any radio, stereo, musical instrument, compact disc or sound or
musical recorder or player.
   (D)   Sound amplification systems in vehicles; limitations on use.
      (1)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle in such a manner
or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person or neighborhood in the vicinity.
      (2)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle which can be
heard up at a distance of 75 feet or which causes a person to be aware of
vibration accompanying the sound at a distance of 75 feet.
   (E)   Exemptions. This prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   Amplification systems being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation;
      (2)   Authorized emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Vehicles operated utility companies;
      (4)   Vehicles used in parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or similar
activities subject to any sound limits in any approval by the city; or
      (5)   Amplification systems in vehicles which are operated on private
property with the permission of the owner and which are not audible beyond the
property line.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, Johnson grass,
sorghum, alum (i.e., allium), bur cucumber and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The State Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 92.21 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of
ten inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.22 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 92.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. This
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide
that, within seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the
designated violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person
occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
       (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.24 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops, or is
not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 92.25 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.26 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
    (B)   (1)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs,
attorneys’ fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town.
      (2)   If the enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town
shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment,
supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a General Fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if the property
owner fails to pay a bill issued under this chapter within the time specified
in this chapter, the town shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of the
bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification.
The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the
property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued interest, shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under this
chapter within the time specified in this chapter, the town may bring an action
in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the bill, plus any additional
costs incurred in the collection, including court costs and reasonable
attorneys’ fees. If the town obtains a judgment under this division (D)(2), the
town may obtain a lien in the amount of the judgment on any real or personal
property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
92.05 shall be deemed to have committed and ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time. Each day a violation continues after an action has been commenced
to abate the nuisance, that nuisance shall constitute a separation ordinance
violation. No additional notice under this section shall be required to
initiate separate actions once an action has been against the person violating
§
92.05. In addition to the fine mentioned above, the town may recover all costs
of abatement and correction together with attorneys’ fees and court costs in
the county courts.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed - -2014)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
   
93.07   Street cut procedure
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized town official.
   (B)   Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the Town Council,
giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area
and depth to be excavated and other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the authorized town official, conditioned upon
prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and restoration of all
surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited.
      (2)   Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate town fund,
except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference between
the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration services performed by
it. If the amount of the services performed by the town should exceed the
amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper administrative officer shall
proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise
for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in
construction and repair of sidewalks and shall authorize the town executive to
contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest
responsible bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the
work. The town executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
§ 93.07 STREET CUT PROCEDURE.
   The street cut procedure described in the images incorporated herein shall
constitute the requirements for excavation and for restoration of streets and
alleys within the town. Said street cut procedures are those adopted by the
State Highway Commission and the State Department of Environmental Management,
as currently required and as may be subsequently amended. All such excavation
and restoration of streets and alleys shall be done under the requirements and
supervision of the Town Maintenance Manager, or his or her designated inspector
to ensure conformity with procedures as set forth at attached format for the
town’s application for permit to excavate a street or alley right-of-way as
shown herein.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-725.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-727.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-729.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-731.png]
 
Notes:
Notes:
(1) Removal of existing curb
(2) New curb shall have contraction joints (saw cut or tooled) every 10 feet
and 15-inch expansion material every 100 feet
(3) New curb to be placed on compacted or undisturbed base
(4) New curb shall have 12:1 longitudinal slope at drive approaches, ramps and
termination points
(5) Depress curb 4.5 inches for drive approaches
(6) All concrete shall be Class A, 4-inch max slump
(7) All disturbed/filled dirt areas shall be graded, seeded and strawed
(8) All asphalt cuts will be sawcut 12 inches beyond curb face (this is a
maximum payable amount)
(9) All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-733.png]
 
Notes:
Notes:
(1) New sidewalk shall have contraction joints (tooled) every 5 feet and 0.5-
inch expansion material every 50 feet
(2) Sidewalks shall be 4 inches thick/6 inches thick in drive approaches
(3) All concrete shall be Class A, 1-inch max slump
(4) New sidewalk shall be placed on compacted or undisturbed base and shall be
wetted before pouring
(5) New sidewalks shall be trowelled and finished to a broom finish
(6) Edging and dividing tools shall be used after brooming operation on new
sidewalks
(7) All disturbed/filled dirt areas shall be graded, seeded and strawed
(8) All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-735.png]
 
Notes:
Notes:
(1) Removal of existing curb
(2) New curb shall have contraction joints (saw cut or tooled) every 10 feet
and 0.5-inch expansion material every 100 feet
(3) New curb to be placed on compacted or undistributed base
(4) New curb shall have 12:1 longitudinal slope at drive approaches, ramps and
termination points
(5) Depress curb 4.5 inches for drive approaches
(6) All concrete shall be Class A, 4-inch max slump
(7) All disturbed/filled dirt areas shall be graded, seeded and strawed
(8) All asphalt cuts will be sawcut 12 inches beyond curb face (this is a
maximum payable amount)
(9) All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-737.png]
 
Notes:
Notes:
(1) New sidewalk shall be contraction joints (tooled) every 5 feet and 0.5-inch
expansion material every 50 feet
(2) Sidewalks shall be 4 inches thick/8 inches thick in drive approaches
(3) All concrete shall be Class A, 4-inch max slump
(4) New sidewalk shall be placed on compacted or undisturbed base and shall be
wetted before pouring
(5) New sidewalks shall be trowelled and finished to a broom finish
(6) Edging and dividing tools shall be used after brooming operation on new
sidewalks
(7) All disturbed/filled dirt areas shall be graded, seeded and strawed
(8) All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-739.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/855907925d935eeaa24844339d1db6d15dc29b01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-741.png]
 
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 5-22-2014)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, entity or its agents who fails to obtain a permit as
required by §
93.07 shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation.
      (2)   Any permittee authorized by the Town Maintenance Manager to
excavate a street or alley right-of-way pursuant to the application format
attached to the ordinance codified in §
93.07 who fails to comply with any of the provisions as set forth in such
application shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation.
      (3)   Any person, upon conviction of any ordinance violation mentioned
above, shall be fined an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time
to time. Each day a violation continues after written notice has been served
upon the person, entity or its agent shall constitute a separate ordinance
violation. No addition notice under §
93.07 shall be required to initiate separate actions once an action has been
filed against the person or entity violating the provisions of §
93.07. In addition to the fine mentioned above, the town may recover all costs
of remediation and of correction occasioned by failure to comply with the
provisions of the application for permit to excavate the street or alley right-
of-way, together with engineering fees, consultants’ fees, attorneys’ fees and
court costs incurred in the county courts by the town in enforcing the
provisions of any permit to excavate.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 5-22-2014)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
94.02   Park rules
   
94.03   Vehicle use restrictions
   
94.04   Fire restrictions
   
94.05   Park hours
   
94.06   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Town Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Department of Parks and Recreation.
      PARK. Includes the land and water constituting all parks and other
recreation areas within the jurisdiction of the Department.
      PARK BOARD. The Town Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   The Department shall be composed of the Park Board. The Park Board
shall be composed of four members who shall be appointed by the President of
the Town Council, as the town executive, on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members of the Park Board
shall be members of the same political party.
   (D)   (1)   Initial appointments to the Park Board by the Town President
shall be as follows:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As such initial term expires, each new appointment is for a four-
year term. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member
continues in office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (E)   The Park Board shall elect a President, Vice President and secretary
at its first meeting of each year. The Vice President shall act as President of
the Park Board during the absence or disability of the President.
   (F)   The Park Board may perform all acts necessary to acquire and develop
sites and facilities and to conduct programs generally understood to be park
and recreation functions and shall have all powers and duties listed in I.C.
36-10-3-17, as amended.
   (G)   The Park Board may create an advisory council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation, in accordance with
I.C. 36-10-3-17, as amended.
   (H)   The Park Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget. The Park
Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and recreation
purposes. A special non-reverting fund shall be established and made available
for expenditures for purposes specified by persons donating money to the Park
Board.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996; Ord. 1996-13, passed 9- -1996)
§ 94.02 PARK RULES.
   (A)   Possession or use of alcoholic beverages prohibited. No person shall
bring into any park, use, consume, sell, give away or possess any alcoholic
beverage in any park.
   (B)   Possession of firearms and weapons prohibited. No person shall bring
into any park, or possess any weapon, missile propelling devices, ammunition,
fireworks or other explosive devices. No person shall bring into any park, or
possess, any firearm unless that firearm is licensed, permitted and authorized
by the Police Department having jurisdiction over that person or park to
possess that firearm or unless that person has received written authorization
to do so from the Park Board.
   (C)   Inflicting injury to wildlife and vegetation prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall kill, wound, hunt, trap, shoot, throw rocks or
missiles at, chase, molest, remove or possess any feral animal, reptile, bird,
bird’s nest, squirrel’s nest or young or eggs of any reptile or bird, or
knowingly buy, receive, possess, sell or give away any animal, reptile, bird or
egg killed or taken within any park. The Park Board may grant written
permission for hunting or trapping certain species under restricted conditions
to prevent species overpopulation.
      (2)   No person shall harvest, cut, remove, break, disturb, set fire to
or otherwise damage any vegetation or other growing thing within any park. For
the purpose of this division (C)(2), VEGETATION includes, but is not limited
to, plants, flowers, flower beds, shrubs, tree growth, branches, plants,
flowers, flower beds, shrubs, tree growth, branches, stems, fruits and leaves.
      (3)   No person shall attach a rope, tether, cable or other contrivance
to any vegetation in any park. However, the ripe fruit and seeds of plants and
trees may be collected from the ground by any person.
   (D)   Causing damage to signs, shelters and other structures prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall deface, remove, set fire to, tamper with, damage or
destroy any artificial structure within any park or use any such structure for
purposes other than that for which it was intended. For the purpose of this
division (D), ARTIFICIAL STRUCTURE shall include, but not be limited to, any
drive, walk, bridge, wall, monument, statue, sign, building, tower, parking
lot, post gate and recreational equipment.
      (2)   No person shall displace or remove any asphalt, curb, rock, stone,
gravel, sand in any park or make any excavation in any park.
   (E)   Overnight camping prohibited. No person shall pitch or maintain any
tent or other improvised shelter or otherwise camp overnight within any park
without first obtaining the written consent of the Park Board. That permit
shall be conspicuously posted at the campsite.
   (F)   Other prohibited activity. No person shall engage in any conduct or
act dangerous to that person or to others, including, but not limited to, hang
gliding, rappelling from towers and any other technical climbing of trees,
towers or structures.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 VEHICLE USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Speed limits and obstructions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within any park at a speed of
more than ten mph.
      (2)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle under his or her
control to obstruct traffic. No person shall stop any vehicle in any park
except at those places specifically designated as parking areas.
   (B)   Vehicle operation.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be operated within any park except upon the
roadway or within any area expressly designated for vehicular traffic.
Snowmobiles, minibuses and persons on horseback are restricted to those areas
specifically designated for such uses.
      (2)   The Park Board may grant written exemptions to this requirement if
the applicant for that exemption submits proof of liability and property damage
insurance with terms deemed adequate and acceptable to the Park Board.
   (C)   Vehicles; park closing. No person shall leave any vehicle within any
park after the park has closed. Any such vehicle may be removed by order of the
Department without further notice to the owner or operator. The owner of that
vehicle shall be liable for any towing and storage fees incurred.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use any fire in any park
except in fireplaces provided for the purpose or as cooking fires confined to
portable grills, barbecues, cook stoves and other cooking equipment deemed
acceptable by the Park Board or as the burning of combustible materials under
authority of the Park Board as part of normal maintenance or unless that person
has obtained the written consent of the Park Board act otherwise.
   (B)   Any fire shall be maintained under the continuous care and direction
of a competent person at least 18 years of age, from the time it is kindled
until it is effectively extinguished.
   (C)   No person shall discard any burning match, cigar or cigarette within
any park.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PARK HOURS.
   No person shall, without the written consent of the Board, or unless
differing hours are posted by the Board, remain on the park premises except
during the following hours:
   (A)   April 1 through October 31, inclusive: 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m.; and
   (B)   November 1 through March 31, inclusive: 7:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Police Department may issue notices of violation to any person
violating this section.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined an
amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. Each day a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 5-23-1996)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
95.01   Discharge of fireworks
Open Burning
   
95.15   Definitions
   
95.16   Open burning prohibited
   
95.17   Exemptions
   
95.18   Requirements for exemptions and variances
   
95.19   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 95.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, the use or discharge of consumer fireworks
within the town shall be prohibited, and it shall be a violation of this
section to use, ignite or discharge any type of consumer fireworks, as defined
by I.C. 22-11-14, within the corporate limits of the town; provided however,
that the prohibition shall not apply:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (B)   Provided further, the use or discharge of consumer fireworks on the
times and on the dates herein specified may take place only:
      (1)   At a specified discharge location as designated by the Town
Marshal;
      (2)   Upon property of the person using or discharging the consumer
fireworks; or
      (3)   On the property of one who gives permission to use and discharge
consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 7-24-2014) Penalty, see §
95.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CONTAINER. A non-combustible, 55-gallon barrel or drum sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom
and a mesh covering with openings no larger than one-quarter square.
   AIR POLLUTANTS. Any substances such as cinder fly ash, smoke fumes, gas mist
and offensive odors.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of substances in
quantities, having characteristics and being of duration which are with
reasonable certainty injurious to human life and property or which unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life and property due to the emission of odors,
vapors, liquids or gases.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste or substance which is easily inflammable,
such as tree leaves, papers, cartons, paper boxes, dry limbs or dry grass
cuttings.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Town Marshal or his or her designated agents.
   NON-COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any waste material or substance not easily
flammable, such as clothing, bedding, garbage, fresh grass clippings, fresh
tree leaves, mattresses, tires or other rubber products, automobile hunks,
furniture, rugs, rags, cans, waste foodstuff, dead animals, animal excrement,
sawdust and any material which is subject to slow combustion usually emitting
smoke, offensive odors, fumes, gases or similar pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Environmental conditions, intermittent or continuous, produced or
correctable by a person, prejudicial to the reasonable enjoyment of health,
comfort or safety of an individual or causing injury or damage to persons and
property.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   SMOKE. Any small gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion
and present in sufficient quantity to be visually observable.
   SOURCE. Any real or person property or person contributing to air pollution.
   VIOLATOR. A person contributing to air pollution in violation of standards
established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 95.16 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this subchapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or
existence of combustible material that constitutes to open burning.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices or
campfires;
   (B)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school pep
rally fires or the celebration of scouting activities. Recreational or
ceremonial fires shall meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
      (4)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if
the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: five feet by
five feet by five feet).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
   (C)   Burning of combustible materials in an adequate container is permitted
only in the following instances:
      (1)   The burning takes place on property which contains either no
buildings or structures or which contains a residential structure with no more
than two units. No burning may take place in apartment complexes or mobile home
parks;
      (2)   The burning takes place at a distance of five or more feet from any
combustible product, including buildings, automobiles or any structure; and
      (3)   The burning does not take place on the sidewalks, streets or on the
grounds in front of the building.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 95.18 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Only wood and paper products shall be burned.
   (B)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires shall be extinguished if the enforcement officer, Fire
Department or their designee determines that they are a nuisance, fire hazard
or air pollution problem.
   (D)   All burning of combustible materials in adequate containers described
above must occur between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. and shall be totally
extinguished at 7:00 p.m. If the daylight hours end before 7:00 p.m., the fire
must be extinguished when the daylight hours end.
   (E)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds or stagnation. The Fire
Department and/or enforcement officer may determine that meteorological
conditions are unfavorable for burning and may order that any and all fires be
extinguished at such times.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed Town
Marshal or his or her designated agents within the town, acting on his or her
own initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
95.01 constitutes an infraction which may be punishable by a fine in an amount
that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for the first
occurrence and in another such amount for a second occurrence within five years
of the first occurrence of violation.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of §
95.15 through
95.19 shall be subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The Town Marshal or his or her designated agents shall issue a
warning notice to a first time violator stating that he or she is in violation.
The person must then correct the violation immediately by extinguishing the
fire. Failure or refusal to immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a
citation being issued.
      (2)   Upon conviction of the citation, the violator shall be fined not
less than $25 for the first offense, $75 for the second offense, $125 for the
third offense and $200 for the fourth offense; these amounts are subject to
change and shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. The violator
shall pay all attorneys’ fees, experts’ fees and court costs incurred by the
town in enforcing this penalty.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of §§
95.15 through
95.19 shall also result in the Fire Department having the authority to go upon
private property to extinguish said fire.
      (4)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued, shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (5)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to open burning may not refute
liability for violation of §§
95.15 through
95.19 on the basis that said fire was set by vandals, accidental or act of God.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 1-12-2012; Ord. 2014-4, passed 7-24-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If, for any reason, the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time he or she
is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Liquor retailer permit
§ 112.01 LIQUOR RETAILER PERMIT.
   The Board hereby authorizes the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits for
premises in the town pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-9-4 and 905 I.A.C. §§ 1-1-1 et
seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-3-9-4) (Ord. 18-1965, passed 8-12-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits, see I.C. 7.1-3-9-4
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS
Section
   
113.01   Selling cannabis prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 SELLING CANNABIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids such as K2, Kind/Spice or
similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical compounds
shall not be sold, marketed, offered for sale or possessed within the town:
      (1)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids may not be burned,
ingested, incinerated, ignited or possessed in any public place or on any
property owned, leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 2-24-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Person or entitles violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed an amount that shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time for the first violation and another such amount for second or
subsequent violation.
   (B)   Any and all fines collected from this chapter shall be deposited in
the account commonly known as the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 2-24-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew hours for minors younger than 16 years of age. It is a curfew
violation for a child less than 16 years of age to be in a public place after
11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Curfew hours for children 16 and 17 years of age. It is a curfew
violation for a child 16 or 17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (C)   Emancipation. It is a defense to a violation under this section that
the child was emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
   (D)   Defenses. It is a defense to a violation under this section that the
child engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Indiana Constitution, Article 1, § 31, or both, such as freedom of speech and
the right to assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training or other care under the supervision of
one or more adults.
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child
into custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
         (a)   The child has violated this section; and
         (b)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
      (2)   A child who commits a curfew violation under this section is
subject to enforcement procedures provided in I.C. 36-1-6 and 34-28-5. Any
complaint filed against a child for a violation of this section shall be filed
in a court of general jurisdiction, and the Town Council shall direct a copy of
the complaint to the child’s parent, guardian or custodian, if such person is
known or can be identified by reasonable inquiry.
   (F)   Curfew responsibility of parent, guardian or custodian. It is and
shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having custody over a
child to permit a child to commit a curfew violation under this section. If a
parent, guardian, custodian or child is charged with a second or subsequent
violation of this section, there shall be presumption that the parent, guardian
or custodian is responsible under this section for the child’s violation of
this section.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 7-10-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who is found guilty of a violation of §
130.01 shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding an amount that shall be set
by the Town Council from time to time per violation.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of the foregoing fine, the court, upon
request, may order such injunctive relief as is appropriate and necessary to
prevent the child from committing further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 7-10-2008)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or
park.
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons who
are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law or to
any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while on
duty. The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways or
public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
Building Permits
   
150.20   Building permit required
   
150.21   Application for permit
   
150.22   Issuance of permit
   
150.23   Certificate of occupancy
Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.35   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.36   Lifting devices
Enforcement
   
150.50   Inspections
   
150.51   Withholding of permits
   
150.52   Permit revocation
   
150.53   Stop-work order
   
150.54   Civil action
   
150.55   Right of appeal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Sweetser, Indiana.”
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the town and shall be construed in such
a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Includes individuals employed by the town or through
interlocal agreement with the town who are authorized to represent the
designated Building Official and the town.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) of this
definition.
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a) of this definition, except buildings or structures described in divisions
(3) through (6) of this definition.
      (2)   This definition includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) of this definition does not include a building or
structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) of this definition does not include a Class 2
structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) of this definition does not include a vehicular
bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) of this definition does not include a structure
that is intended to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or
repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a) of
this definition, such as a garage, bam or family swimming pool, unless any part
of the outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) of this definition does not include a vehicular
bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes a swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, and as defined in 42 U.S.C.
§ 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003, a structure, transportable in one or
more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in
width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any
structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. and
except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles suspended between two or more parts
of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Official prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Official.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Official and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Official determines to be necessary
to locale and contact the applicant;
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, that such plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
      (4)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safely Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Official and the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Official finds to be
necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws; and
      (6)   The fee established by the adopted fee schedule.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Official may require that such an employee or agent provide written authority
to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.22 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Building Official shall issue a building permit to a person after the
person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee;
provided, that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.23 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Official.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.35 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles of 675
I.A.C. are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall include any
later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13: Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and building safety standards; and
         (b)   State Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14: One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Article 16: State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17: State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18: State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19: State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20: State Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22: Fire Prevention Code;
      (9)   Article 24: Supplemental Fire Safety Rules; and
      (10)   Article 25: State Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4. The Building Official and the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission may grant a variance to the fire
safety laws and building laws adopted in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-
2-7(b), a variance granted by the Building Official is not effective until it
has been approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.36 LIFTING DEVICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.la,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.50 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections and investigations.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Official irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Official may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Building Official and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws. The Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.51 WITHHOLDING OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees, including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to this chapter, or inspection
fees owed pursuant to this chapter, to the Building Official, the Building
Official may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such
time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Official is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested permits
until such time that the property is brought into conformance with applicable
ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.52 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Official may revoke a building permit when any of the following
are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this chapter; or
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.53 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Official may issue an order requiring suspension of the
pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   State the conditions under which construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Official may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.54 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.55 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Official. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures.
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may appeal
to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with I.C.
22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the town
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, 22-13, 22-14 and 22-15, or a fire
safety or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this chapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a fine
in any sum not exceeding an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 2-14-2008)
CHAPTER 151: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Stormwater management systems
   
151.02   Department of Stormwater Management
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Stormwater utility user fee structure
   
151.05   Billing and collection
   
151.06   Program administration
   
151.07   Stormwater utility account
§ 151.01 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.
   I.C. 8-1.5-5 concerning stormwater management systems is hereby adopted by
the Town Council, as to make the Act and any and all amendments thereto
effective and operative in the town.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 151.02 DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, a Department of Stormwater Management shall
be and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for the collection,
disposal and drainage of stormwater in the town.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5, the Department of Stormwater Management
shall be controlled by a Board of Directors which shall consist of three
members appointed by the Town Council, two of which shall be Town Council
members.
   (C)   The initial terms of the first members appointed pursuant to this
section shall be staggered so that one member shall have a one-year term; one
member shall have a two-year term; and one member shall have a three-year term;
and thereafter the terms of all members shall be for a period of three years,
and all initial terms shall begin on the first day of the month following
adoption of this section.
   (D)   The Board of Directors shall prepare a budget for the operation of the
Department on an annual basis which budget shall be subject to approval by the
Town Council, and any issuance of bonds or other methods for making capital
improvements shall be approved by the Town Council as provided by law.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL. The use of land or structures for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, aquaculture, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory structures and uses such as tenant housing and those for the packing,
treating and storing of produce. However, the operations of any accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The Town Maintenance Manager, or designated town
employee, Town Engineer or an agent of the town authorized in writing by the
Board to administer or enforce provisions of this chapter.
   BOARD. The governing body for the town’s Stormwater District.
   CODE. This code of ordinances.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a basin, pond or
other structure to control the peak discharge rates by holding the stormwater
for a period of time and which provides some gravity settling of particulates.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land altered from its natural state
by the construction, creation or addition of impervious area, except public
streets and highways.
   DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect entry of any solid, liquid or gaseous
matter.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms that are used or are intended to be used by
one household primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, or as
classified by the town building code.
   EQUIVALENT USER. The base unit for determining stormwater charges. An ERU
represents the average amount of impervious area of a single-family residential
property within the town and is established as 2,565 square feet of impervious
area.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Any part of any developed property that has been modified
by the action of persons to reduce the land’s natural ability to absorb and
hold rainfall. This includes building as well as any hard surface area which
either prevents or retards the entry of water into the soil. By way of example,
IMPERVIOUS AREAS include, but are not limited to, rooftops, walkways, patios,
driveways, parking lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel
roads or driveways. The IMPERVIOUS AREA for any parcel shall be determined
solely by the authorized official or his or her representative.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. The Town of Sweetser, Indiana.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of land on which is
situated a building containing three or more dwelling units, or on which two or
more buildings containing multiple dwelling units are situated.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of residential property, including, but not limited to, commercial,
industrial, retail, multi-family residential, governmental, institutional,
schools and churches.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. Any entity designated as not-for-profit pursuant to the
Internal Revenue Services regulations upon receipt of documentation of said
designation by the Internal Revenue Service from the property owner.
   PARCEL. The smallest separately segregated lot, unit or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries and surface area which is documented for
property tax purposes by the County Assessor.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of water passing a given point
during or after a rainfall event.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, institution or
other entity.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel within the town on which a single building or
home is situated. Said parcel may also contain accessory structure(s) such as a
yard shed or garage. Each and every RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY shall be assigned one
ERU.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of publicly dedicated land over which a public street,
road or alley has been or may be constructed.
   SITE OF COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any area or facility used for the sale of
goods, materials or services as well as any use permitted or special exception
by the Town Council.
   SITE OF INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Any area or facility used for manufacturing,
processing or raw materials storage, as defined under 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(a)(14)
of regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, as amended.
   STORMWATER. The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen which is produced
from atmosphere clouds as rain, snow, sleet and hail.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including structures and
natural watercourses under the ownership or control of the town, used for
collecting and conducting stormwater to, through and from drainage areas to the
point of final outlet, including, but not limited to, any and all of the
following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant features, creeks, channels, catch
basins, ditches, streams, streets, culverts, retention or detention basins and
pumping stations; but excluding therefrom any part of the system of drains and
watercourses under the jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board or waters of
the state.
   STORMWATER UTILITY USER. The owner of a lot or parcel within the town.
   STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE. A charge or user fee authorized by I.C. 36-9-23
and imposed on all stormwater utility users.
   SURFACE WATER. Water occurring on the surface of the land, from natural
causes such as rainfall, whether falling on the land in question or flowing
onto the land in question.
   TOWN. The Town of Sweetser, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body for the town.
   UNDEVELOPED LOT. A residentially platted lot upon which there have been no
structures located or placed.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY. A parcel which has not been altered from its natural
state by the addition of any improvements such as a building, structure or
impervious surface, change of grade or landscaping or a parcel which has been
restored to its natural state by the removal of all improvements such as
buildings, structures or impervious surfaces. For new construction, a parcel
shall be considered developed:
      (1)   Upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy, or upon completion of
construction or final inspection if no such certificate is issued; or
      (2)   Where construction is at least 50% completed.
   UTILITY BILLING PERSONNEL. Employees of the town or the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, charged with account establishment, creation and distribution of
regular invoices and recording of charges and payments for each account, as
well as regulated enforcement allowed within this chapter.
   WOODED PROPERTY. An undeveloped property that has a wooded or forested area
which makes up at least 80% of the area of the parcel, which has been committed
to remain in its natural state. The property owner must demonstrate the
commitment to leave the WOODED PROPERTY in its natural state to the
satisfaction of the utility billing personnel.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 151.04 STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   A stormwater utility fee user fee shall be imposed on all residential
and nonresidential property within the town, including those classified as
nonprofit or tax exempt, for services and facilities provided by the stormwater
utility. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation and
maintenance of the existing and future stormwater system of the town.
   (B)   For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a stormwater
utility user fee to each stormwater utility user within the corporate limits of
the town, in an amount determined below. For the purpose of imposing the
stormwater utility user fee, all lots and parcels within the town are
classified as either residential or nonresidential.
      (1)   Residential. Each residential property is hereby assigned one ERU.
A monthly user fee in an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time
to time for each residential lot within the town shall be charged.
      (2)   Nonresidential. A monthly user fee shall be charged for each
nonresidential property in a manner as set forth below.
         (a)   Large nonresidential properties. Large nonresidential properties
constituting the usage of more than three ERUs shall be charged a monthly rate
in an amount that shall be set by the Town Council from time to time per month.
         (b)   Small nonresidential properties. Properties utilizing three or
less ERUs shall be charged a fee in an amount that shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time per month.
   (C)   The nonresidential stormwater utility user fee shall be based on the
relative contribution of surface and stormwater runoff from a given parcel to
the town’s stormwater system and shall be assessed per ERU per month. Any
billings for stormwater service outside this time shall be based on a per diem
basis. This stormwater utility user fee rate is designed to recover and be able
to pay the cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater
system and shall be the basis for assessment of the town’s stormwater utility
user fee. This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variation in demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated
annually as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the stormwater utility.
The following methods may be used to determine the nonresidential user factors:
      (1)   Computation of the impervious area using on-site measurements of
the apparent outside boundaries in or on such developed property made by the
town or on its behalf;
      (2)   Computation of the impervious area using the dimensions which are
set forth and contained in the records of the office of the County Assessor;
      (3)   Estimation, calculation and computation of the impervious area
using aerial photography or photogrammetry, or as contained in the records of
the town or county; or
      (4)   Computation of impervious area using data provided by the owner,
tenant or developer. The authorized official may require additional information
as necessary.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 151.05 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Bills or statements for the stormwater utility user fee shall be
rendered monthly, in accordance with the regular sewer utility billing cycle
for all properties subject to this fee. Bills shall be payable at the same time
and in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as set forth for the
sewer utility. Any partial payment of a combined utility bill shall be applied
first to the stormwater utility user fee. Any unpaid stormwater utility user
fees shall constitute a lien on such property and shall be on a parity with the
lien of state, county and municipal taxes. Such lien, when delinquent for more
than 30 days, may be foreclosed by the town in the manner provided by the laws
of the state for foreclosure of mortgages on real property.
   (B)   For properties normally receiving monthly utility bills for other town
services, the stormwater utility user fee shall be included in the monthly bill
rendered to the established owner/customer.
   (C)   For properties not receiving monthly utility bills for other town
services, the bill or statement for the stormwater utility user fee shall be
sent to the stormwater utility user as determined from the tax rolls.
   (D)   The owner of a property is ultimately responsible for all fees imposed
under this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   Requests for adjustment of the stormwater utility user fee shall
be submitted through the authorized official, who shall be given authority to
administer the procedures and standards and review criteria for the adjustment
of fees as established herein. All requests shall be judged on the basis of
category and classifications as herein defined. No credit shall be given for
the installation of facilities required by the town or county development codes
or state stormwater rules other than those set out in §
151.04(A), (B) and (C). The following procedures shall apply to all adjustment
requests of the stormwater utility user fee:
         (a)   Any owner who has paid his or her stormwater utility user fees
and who believes the ERU component of his or her stormwater utility user fee to
be incorrect may, subject to the limitations set forth in this chapter, submit
an adjustment request to the authorized official.
         (b)   Request for adjustment of stormwater utility user fees paid by
an owner making the request shall be in writing and set forth, in detail, the
grounds upon which relief is sought.
         (c)   Adjustment requests made during the first calendar year that the
stormwater utility user fee is imposed will be reviewed by the authorized
official within a four-month period from the date of filing of the adjustment
request. Adjustments resulting from such request shall be retroactive to the
beginning of billings but shall not exceed one year.
         (d)   The owner requesting the adjustment may, at his or her own cost,
provide supplemental information to the authorized official, including, but not
limited to, facts, opinions or professional services to substantiate his or her
case.
         (e)   Adjustments to the stormwater utility user fee will be made by
the utility billing personnel upon the granting of the adjustment request in
writing, by the authorized official. Denials of adjustment requests shall be
made in writing by the authorized official.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the written denial of the adjustment request, the
owner who initially requested the adjustment may, within 30 days of receipt of
such denial, appeal to the Board for review of the denial. The Board shall
complete its review within 60 days of receipt of said request for appeal. The
Board’s determination on the appeal shall be in writing and set forth in detail
the reason for its decision. In evaluating the appeal, the Board shall be bound
by the standards and review criteria contained herein. All determinations of
the Board arising out of this section shall be final.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 151.06 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized official to administer the
stormwater utility program. The utility billing personnel shall keep an
accurate record of all persons using the services and facilities of said
stormwater utility of the town and make changes in accordance with the rates
and charges established in this chapter or by ordinance.
   (B)   The authorized official shall direct any new development or the
property owner of newly annexed property to establish a stormwater utility user
account.
   (C)   The Board, or its designated agent, may issue an order to any person
to immediately cease any discharge or connection to the stormwater system,
determined by the Board to be in violation of any provision of this chapter, or
in violation of any regulation or permit issued hereunder.
   (D)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any regulation
or order issued hereunder shall be subject to injunctive relief if necessary to
protect the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (E)   A person shall be deemed guilty of a separate violation for each and
every day during any continuing violation of any provision of this chapter, or
of any regulation or permit issued hereunder.
   (F)   The Board may take all actions necessary, including the issuance of
notices of violation, the filing of court actions to require and enforce
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with any regulation or
permit issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 9-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 STORMWATER UTILITY ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There shall be established a stormwater utility account for the
deposit of all fees and charges collected by the stormwater utility.
   (B)   These funds shall be for the exclusive use of the town’s stormwater
utility, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Stormwater management services, such as studies, design, permit
review, plan preparation and development review;
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the stormwater
collection, storage, conveyance or treatment infrastructure;
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the town’s stormwater related infrastructure;
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the
stormwater utility user fee;
      (5)   Debt service financing of the town’s stormwater related capital
improvements; and
      (6)   Funding of studies such as water quantity and quality monitoring,
aerial photography and geotechnical work associated with the planning of the
stormwater related infrastructure.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 9-8-2016)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   County Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Grant County Area Plan is adopted by reference and shall be amended by
the town from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 4-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 1-1992, passed 1-9-1992)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   County Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Grant County Areawide Zoning Ordinance is adopted by reference and shall
be amended by the town from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 4-1986, passed 9-25-1986; Ord. 1987-3, passed 12-17-1987; Ord. 5-1988,
passed 4-14-1988; Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-28-1989; Ord. 2-1990, passed 4-12-1990;
Ord. 1-1991, passed 1-24-1991; Ord. 1-1992, passed 1-9-1992; Ord. 4-1992,
passed 7-23-1992; Ord. 19-1995A, passed 3-14-1996; Ord. 19-1995B, passed 3-14-
1996; Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-22-2004; Ord. 2006-5, passed 7-27-2006; Ord. 2006-
7, passed 11-30-2006; Ord. 2008-6, passed 8-14-2008; Ord. 11-2008, passed 12-
18-2008; Ord. 7-2014, passed 11-13-2014; Ord. 2-2018, passed 5-10-2018; Ord. 1-
2020, passed 2-27-2020; Ord. 2-2020, passed 2-27-2020; Ord. 4-2020, passed 2-
27-2020; Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-10-2020; Ord. 2-2022, passed 4-28-2022; Ord. 1-
2023, passed 4-13-2023; Ord. 2-2023, passed 4-13-2023; Ord. 3-2023, passed 4-
13-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET VACATIONS
      
II.   FUNDS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS/DISCONNECTIONS
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
6-1993   9-23-1993   Vacating a portion of an alley extending between Hubert
                     Street and Greenburg Street.
                     Vacating a portion of the following public way: beginning
                     at the southeast corner of Lot Number 34 in the Original
                     Plat to the Town of Sweetser, Indiana, thence south 88
                     degrees, 56 minutes, 04 seconds, east 40.60 feet to the
                     west line of Lot Number 36, thence north 10 degrees, 51
17-1995  10-26-1995  minutes, 10 seconds, east 50.53 feet to the northwest
                     corner of said Lot Number 36, thence north 79 degrees, 08
                     minutes, 50 seconds, west 40 feet along the south line of
                     the CCC and St. Louis Railroad to the northeast corner of
                     Lot Number 34, thence south 10 degrees, 51 minutes, 10
                     seconds, west 57.43 feet to the point of beginning and
                     containing 2,159.8 square feet.
2000-4   4- -2000    Vacating a portion of public utility easements located on
                     Lots 59 and 60 in Eagle Estates Subdivision.
                    
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10-1988  7-28-1988   Re-establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
3-1989   5-11-1989   Re-establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
1996-10  5-23-1996   Establishing a special non-reverting fund for donations to
                     the Park Board and for specific capital improvements.
1998-5   6-4-1998    Establishing a special non-reverting fund for donations to
                     the Park Board and for specific capital improvements.
1999-1   2-28-1999   Amending a special non-reverting fund for donations to the
                     Park Board and for specific capital improvements.
2000-5   5-25-2000   Re-establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
2003-5   - -2003     Establishing a Cumulative Building Fund.
2012-5   8-9-2012    Establishing a non-reverting fund for animal control
                     purposes.
2013-2   1-10-2013   Establishing the 50/50 Sidewalk Fund.
2013-1   3-28-2013   Re-establishing a Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
2013-4   9-25-2013   Establishing cash change/petty cash funds.
2015-9   8-13-2015   Establishing the Blight Elimination Fund.
2016-03  10-13-2016  Establishing Fund 257, LOIT special distribution.
2016-05  10-27-2016  Establishing the Rainy Day Fund.
2016-6   11-17-2016  Establishing the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
                     Fund.
2018-1   3-22-2018   Establishing the 50/50 Sidewalk Fund.
2019-2   8-8-2019    Establishing the Sesquicentennial Non-Reverting Fund.
2021-2   8-26-2021   Establishing the Cares Act Fund.
2021-3   8-26-2021   Establishing the Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8-1988   - -1988     Changing the following described property from
                     Residential-1 to Residential-3: 126 East Walnut Street.
                     Changing the following described property from Industrial
4-1988   2-29-1988   Reserve and Agriculture to Residential-1: south of the
                     railroad tracks on the west side of 500 West Main Street.
                     Changing the following described property from
10-1989  11-9-1989   Residential-1 to Light Industrial: southwest corner of
                     Walnut and Greenberry Street.
15-1997  11-13-1997  Adopting amended zoning map.
16-1997  11-20-1997  Adopting amended zoning map.
                     Changing the following described property from
2000-3   4-13-2000   Residential-4 to General Business: 608 North Jackson
                     Street.
5-2002   10-10-2002  Changing the following described property from
                     Residential-1 to General Business: 102 South Main Street.
                     Changing the following described property from
6-2006   8-10-2006   Agricultural to Light Industrial: southwest corner of
                     State Road 18 and 400 West, Marion, Indiana.
                     Changing the following described property from General
4-2007   8-9-2007    Business to Residential-4: 206, 212, 218 North Greenberry
                     Street and 118 West Greenburg Street.
                     Changing the following described property from
10-2007  12-13-2007  Residential-1 and Residential-3 to General Business: 123
                     Greenberry Street.
                     Establishing zoning for recently annexed property, 665.48
2008-5   7-10-2008   acres, further described in the map attached to this
                     ordinance.
                     Changing the following described property from
12-2008  12-29-2008  Residential-1 and Residential-3 to General Business: 123
                     Greenberry Street.
4-2009   8-13-2009   Changing the following described property from
                     Residential-1 to General Business: 110 South Main Street.
3-2022   5-12-2022   Changing the following described property from
                     Residential-4 to General Business: 413 North Main Street.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS/DISCONNECTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Annexing to the city the following described property: beginning at a point
             on the west line of Section 32, Township 25 North, Range 7 East, which point
             is 1272.8 feet north of the centerline of State Road 18 (Delphi Road); thence
             east to the east right-of-way line of Main Street (County Road 500 West);
             thence south 528 feet to the south line of the northwest quarter of said
1986- 1-9-   Section 32; thence east on the south line of said northwest quarter to the
2     1986   southeast corner of the west half of the northwest quarter of said Section
             32; thence north 931.3 feet to a point; thence east 1,335 feet, more or less
             to the east line of the northwest quarter of said Section 32, said point
             being also the northeast corner of Lot 7 in Pleasant Homes 4th Subdivision,
             Section 2; thence south on said east line 925.8 feet, more or less, to the
             northwest corner of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 32;
             thence east on the north line of said southeast quarter.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: a part of the
1988- 2-11-  northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 24 North, Range 7 East, Franklin
2     1988   Civil Township, Grant County, Indiana, containing 7.0522 Acres and being
             subject to legal rights-of-way.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: a part of the west
2-    1-12-  half of the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 25 North, Range 7 East
1989  1989   in Pleasant Township, Grant County, State of Indiana, and being subject to
             all existing highway rights-of-way and drainage easements, containing two and
             nine-tenths acres, more or less.
             Disconnecting from the city the following described property: commencing at
             the intersection of the centerline of State Road 18 and the west line of the
             southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 25 North, Range 7 East; thence
             north on said west line a distance of 660 feet, or to the place of beginning:
             thence continuing north on said west line a distance of 255 feet; thence east
9-    10-12- a distance of 425 feet; thence south and parallel with the aforesaid west
1989  1989   line a distance of 338 feet, or to a point 660 feet north of the aforesaid
             centerline of State Road 18; thence westerly and parallel with said
             centerline a distance of 433 feet, or to the place of beginning: containing
             two and nine-tenths acres, more or less, and being a part of the west half of
             the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 25 North, Range 7 East in
             Pleasant Township, Grant County, State of Indiana, and being subject to all
             existing highway rights-of-way and drainage easements.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             northwest corner of Section 5, Township 24 North, Range 7 East, Grant County,
             Indiana; thence south 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 657.24 feet
             along the west line of the northwest quarter of said Section 5; thence south
             89 degrees, 44 minutes, 32 seconds, east 210 feet to the point of beginning
             for this description; thence south 89 degrees, 44 minutes, 32 seconds, east
             212.18 feet; thence north 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 40 feet to
             the southeast corner of Lot Number 8 in McGee’s Addition to Sweetser,
             Indiana; thence north 85 degrees, 02 minutes, 10 seconds, east 571.37 feet;
1994- 2-24-  thence south 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, west 1503.73 feet; thence
1     1994   north 89 degrees, 17 minutes, 17 seconds, west 333.20 feet to a post; thence
             south 00 degrees, 24 minutes, 57 seconds, east 439.65 feet to a post; thence
             north 89 degrees, 10 minutes, 28 seconds, west 661.50 feet to the west line
             of said northwest quarter; thence north 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds,
             east 750.50 feet; thence south 87 degrees, 22 minutes, 04 seconds, east
             210.22 feet; thence north 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 568.47
             feet; thence south 90 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 201.80 feet;
             thence north 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 105.36 feet; thence
             north 90 degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, west 201.80 feet; thence north 00
             degrees, 00 minutes, 00 seconds, east 426.54 feet to the point of beginning
             and containing 33.78 acres.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             Railroad (now Conrail), said point being the place of beginning: thence in a
1994- 3-10-  northwesterly direction of said northerly right-of-way line a distance of 480
2     1994   feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the southerly right-of-way of
             the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly direction on said
             southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet, or to the east line of said
             southeast quarter and centerline of County Road 600 West; thence north on
             said east line and centerline a distance of 160 feet, to the place of
             beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             Railroad (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction of said northerly
1994- 7-14-  right-of-way line a distance of 480 feet or to the Place of beginning: thence
3     1994   continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way line a
             distance of 480 feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the southerly
             right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly
             direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet; thence north
             a distance of 160 feet, to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             Railroad (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly
1994- 10-27- right-of-way line a distance of 960 feet or to the place of beginning: thence
5     1994   continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way line a
             distance of 480 feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the southerly
             right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly
             direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet; thence north
             a distance of 160 feet, to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             Railroad (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly
1995- 1-12-  right-of-way line a distance of 1,440 feet or to the place of beginning:
1     1995   thence continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way
             line a distance of 480 feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the
             southerly right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a
             southeasterly direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480
             feet; thence north a distance of 160 feet, to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
1995- 5-25-  of-way line a distance of 1,920 feet or to the place of beginning: thence
13    1995   continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way line a
             distance of 480 feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the southerly
             right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly
             direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet; thence north
             a distance of 160 feet, to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of said southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
1995- 9-14-  of-way line a distance of 2,400 feet, or to the place of beginning; thence
14    1995   continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way line a
             distance of 480 feet; thence south a distance of 160 feet to the southerly
             right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly
             direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet; thence north
             a distance of 160 feet to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of the southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
             of-way line a distance of 2,880 feet, or to the place of beginning; thence
1996- 2-1-   continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-of-way a
3     1996   distance of 320 feet; thence north on said northerly right-of-way a distance
             of 20 feet; thence continuing in a northwesterly direction on said northerly
             right-of-way a distance of 120 feet; thence south a distance of 180 feet to
             the southerly right-of-way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a
             southeasterly direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 440
             feet; thence north a distance of 160 feet to the place of beginning.
2000- 2-22-  Annexing to the city the following described property: approximately 36.58
11    2001   acres, described further in Exhibits A and B of this ordinance.
2000- 2-22-  Annexing to the city the following described property: approximately 39.29
12    2001   acres, described further in Exhibits A and B of this ordinance.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of the southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
             of-way line a distance of 3,200 feet; thence north on said northerly right-
2000- 2-22-  of-way line a distance of 20 feet; thence continuing in a northwesterly
13    2001   direction on said northerly right-of-way a distance of 660 feet, or to the
             place of beginning; thence continuing in a northwesterly direction on said
             northerly right-of-way a distance of 540 feet; thence south a distance of 180
             feet to the southerly right-of-way on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad;
             thence in a southeasterly direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance
             of 540 feet, thence north a distance of 180 feet to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of the southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
             of-way line a distance of 3,200 feet; thence north on said northerly right-
2002- - -    of-way line a distance of 20 feet; thence continuing in a northwesterly
6     2003   direction on said northerly right-of-way a distance of 1,200 feet, or to the
             place of beginning: thence continuing in a northwesterly direction on said
             northerly right-of-way a distance of 540 feet; thence south a distance of 180
             feet to the southerly right-of-way on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad;
             thence in a southeasterly direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance
             of 540 feet; thence north a distance of 180 feet to the place of beginning.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the east line of the southeast quarter and centerline of
             County Road 600 West and the northerly right-of-way line of the Penn Central
             (now Conrail); thence in a northwesterly direction on said northerly right-
             of-way line a distance of 3,200 feet; thence north on said northerly right-
             of-way line a distance of 20 feet; thence continuing in a northwesterly
2003- 12-18- direction on said northerly right-of-way a distance of 1,740 feet, or to the
7     2003   place of beginning: thence continuing in a northwesterly direction on said
             northerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet to the west line of aforesaid
             southwest quarter and centerline of County Road 700 West; thence south on
             said west line and centerline a distance of 180 feet to the southerly right-
             of-way on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence in a southeasterly
             direction on said southerly right-of-way a distance of 480 feet; thence north
             a distance of 180 feet to the place of beginning.
2-    4-26-  Annexing to the city the following described property: Parcel # 013-01047-50;
2007  2007   Parcel # 013-01048-00; Parcel# 003-03019-20; Parcel # 001-02018-90; Parcel #
             003-95007-50.
3-    7-26-  Annexing to the city the following described property: Parcel # 013-010008-
2007  2007   80.
8-    10-11- Annexing to the city the following described property: Parcel # 013-01047-50;
2007  2007   Parcel # 013-01048-00; Parcel # 003-03019-20; Parcel # 003-02018-90; Parcel #
             003-95007-50.
             Annexing to the city the following described property: commencing at the
             intersection of the centerline of State Road Number 18 and the west line of
             the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 25 North, Range 7 East; thence
             north on said west line a distance of 660 feet, or to the place of beginning:
             thence continuing north on said west line a distance of 255 feet; thence east
2007- 6-26-  a distance of 425 feet; thence south and parallel with the aforesaid west
9     2008   line a distance of 338 feet, or to a point 660 feet north of the aforesaid
             centerline of State Road Number 18; thence westerly and parallel with said
             centerline a distance of 433 feet, or to the place of beginning: Containing
             two and nine-tenths acres, more or less, and being a part of the west half of
             the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 25 North, Range 7 East in
             Pleasant Township, Grant County, State of Indiana, and being subject to all
             existing highway rights-of-way and drainage easements.
2009- 3-26-  Annexing to the city the following described property: Suite Living, a
2     2009   retirement and senior community at 1256 North 400 West, Marion, Indiana.
            
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Transferring the following described property to Habitat
2017-1   2-23-2017   for Humanity of Grant County: 214 North Meridian Street
                     and 509 North Broadway.
                    
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7-1993   10- -1993   Establishing a cable television franchise with Oak Hill
                     Cablevision, Inc.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites        Code Section
1-1-1-5           10.04
1-1-1-7           10.12
1-1-1-8           10.06
1-1-4-5           10.05
1-1-5-1           10.11
1-1-6-1           10.08
1-1-9-1           11.01
3-10-6            32.02
3-10-7            32.02
3-13-9-3          32.06
4-21.5-3-7        150.55
5-2-1-9           32.21;
                  32.24
5-2-1-9(f)        32.26
5-3-1             31.072
5-4-1-18          30.05
5-11              32.03
5-11-1-9(b)       32.04
5-11-10-1.6       33.04
5-11-10-2         33.03
5-14-1.5          31.015
5-14-1.5-3.5      31.019
5-14-1.5-3.6      31.019
5-14-1.5-4(a)     31.018
5-14-1.5-4(b)     31.019
5-14-1.5-4(c)     31.019
5-14-1.5-6.1      31.016
5-14-3-3          31.016
5-14-3-4(b)(12)   31.016
5-16-9            72.04
5-22              33.35;
                  33.36
6-1.1-17          33.21;
                  33.22
6-1.1-17-3        33.20
7.1-3-9-4         112.01
8-1.5-3-4(d)      50.01
8-1.5-5           151.01;
                  151.02
8-14-1            33.07
8-14-2            33.07
8-22-2            31.016
8-22-3            31.016
8-23-4            90.07
9-13-2-1          90.02
9-13-2-3          90.03
9-13-2-6          70.01;
                  Ch. 75, Schd. I
9-13-2-8          90.02
9-13-2-16         90.02
9-13-2-47         70.01
9-13-2-49.3       70.01
9-13-2-56         70.01
9-13-2-63         90.02
9-13-2-73         70.01
9-13-2-77         70.01
9-13-2-84         70.01
9-13-2-105(a)     70.01
9-13-2-105(b)     70.01
9-13-2-108        70.01
9-13-2-118        70.01
9-13-2-121(a)     70.01;
                  90.02
9-13-2-122        90.02
9-13-2-136        90.02
9-13-2-144        90.02
9-13-2-150        73.01
9-13-2-155        70.01
9-13-2-157        70.01
9-13-2-178        70.01
9-13-2-179        90.02
9-13-2-196        90.02
9-13-2-196(a)     70.01
9-17-4-1          73.03
9-18-2            90.02
9-18-2.5          90.02
9-18.1            90.02
9-18.1-8          90.03
9-18.1-14         90.02
9-18.5-8          72.04
9-18.5-34         90.03
9-19              70.01;
                  73.03
9-19-3-1          73.03
9-21-1-3          Ch. 71;
                  Ch. 72
9-21-5-6          Ch. 71
9-21-12-13        70.01
9-21-20-1         70.01
9-21-20-2         70.01
9-21-20-3         70.01
9-22-1            90.04
9-22-1-1          90.03
9-22-1-2(2)       90.02
9-22-1-2(3)       90.02
9-22-1-4          90.04;
                  90.08
9-22-1-5          90.05
9-22-1-7          90.05
9-22-1-8          90.05
9-22-1-11         90.07
9-22-1-12         90.07
9-22-1-13         90.07
9-22-1-14         90.07
9-22-1-15         90.06
9-22-1-16(a)      90.06
9-22-1-16(b)      90.06
9-22-1-17         90.06
9-22-1-18         90.07
9-22-1-19         90.08
9-22-1-21.5       90.11
9-22-1-31         90.09
9-22-1-32         90.10
9-22-6            90.04;
                  90.11
13-22             31.072
13-23             31.072
13-24             31.072
13-25-4           31.072
13-25-5           31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)    31.072
13-26-5-2.5       52.004
16-18-2-110       70.01
16-22-8           70.01
16-34.5-1-2       31.016
20-29-6-7         31.016
22-9-1-12.1       30.02
22-11-14          95.01
22-12             150.55
22-12-1-4         150.03
22-12-1-5         150.03
22-12-1-7         150.03
22-12-1-14        150.03
22-12-1-16        150.03
22-12-1-17        73.01;
                  150.03
22-12-1-18        150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12) 150.36
22-12-1-24        150.03
22-12-1-26        150.03
22-12-7           150.05
22-13             150.55
22-13-2-3(b)      150.35
22-13-2-6         150.04
22-13-2-7         150.55
22-13-2-7(b)      150.35
22-13-2-9         150.04
22-13-2-11        150.05
22-14             150.55
22-15             150.55
22-15-3           150.21
22-15-4           150.04
25                31.016
25-37-1-11        Ch. 111
31-6-4-15.7       130.01
31-37-19-27       130.01
32-25-2-9         150.03
33-35-3-1         32.03
33-35-3-2         32.03
34-13-3-1 et seq. 35.01;
                  35.02
34-13-3-12        35.02
34-28-5           130.01
                  Ch. 74, Schd. I;
34-28-5-1         Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                  Ch. 74, Schd. III;
                  Ch. 75, Schd. I
35-31.5-2-185     91.08
35-47-5-13(a)     32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)   10.99
36-1-5-4          150.35;
                  150.36
36-1-6            130.01
36-1-6-1—36-1-6-52.077
                  Ch. 74, Schd. I;
36-1-6-3(c)       Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                  Ch. 74, Schd. III;
                  Ch. 75, Schd. I
36-1-6-4          150.54
36-1-6-9          150.55
36-1-7            32.06
36-1-10           31.016
36-1-11           31.016
36-5-2-3(a)       31.001
36-5-2-3(b)       31.001
36-5-2-3(c)       31.001
36-5-2-3(d)       31.001
36-5-2-3(e)       31.001
36-5-2-3(g)       31.001
36-5-2-3(f)       31.001
36-5-2-6          31.002
36-5-2-7          31.004
36-5-2-8          31.021
36-5-2-9          31.003
36-5-2-9.2        31.020
36-5-2-9.4(a)     31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)     31.071
36-5-2-9.6        31.070
36-5-2-9.8        31.071
36-5-2-4.1        31.072
36-5-2-4.2        31.071
36-5-2-10         31.072
36-5-2-10.2       31.073
36-5-3-3          33.20
36-5-3-4          33.21
36-5-3-5          33.22
36-5-4-2          33.01
36-5-4-3          33.02
36-5-4-4          33.03
36-5-4-6          33.04
36-5-4-7          33.05
36-5-4-12         33.06
36-5-4-13(b)      33.07
36-5-6-2          32.03
36-5-6-3(a)       32.01
36-5-6-3(b)       32.02
36-5-6-3(c)       32.02
36-5-6-3(d)       32.02
36-5-6-3(e)       32.02
36-5-6-3(f)       32.02
36-5-6-4          32.02
36-5-6-5          32.03
36-5-6-5.1        32.05
36-5-6-6          32.03
36-5-6-7          32.04
36-5-6-8          32.04
36-5-6-9          32.06
36-5-6.5          32.03
36-5-7-2          32.20
36-5-7-3          32.21
36-5-7-4          32.22
36-5-7-5          32.23
36-5-7-6          32.24
36-5-7-7          32.25
36-7              31.071;
                  31.072
36-7-10.1         Ch. 92
36-7-10.1-4       92.26
36-7-12           36.02
36-7-12-6         36.02
36-7-14           36.01
36-7-14-6.1       36.01
36-8              32.21;
                  32.24
36-8-17           150.50
36-9-23           151.03
36-9-30-3         90.07
36-9-30-21        51.01
36-10-3-17        94.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code  2024 Code
1-1-9-1     11.01
1-1-10-1    11.02
1-2-1-1     11.03
7.1-3-9-4   112.01
22-9-1-12.1 30.02
36-5-2-9    11.04
            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2002-3   - -         92.07
18-1965  8-12-1965   112.01
1986-2   1-9-1986    TSO Table IV
4-1986   9-25-1986   152.01;
                     153.01
1987-3   12-17-1987  153.01
8-1988   - -1988     TSO Table III
1988-2   2-11-1988   TSO Table IV
4-1988   2-29-1988   TSO Table III
5-1988   4-14-1988   153.01
10-1988  7-28-1988   TSO Table II
2-1989   1-12-1989   TSO Table IV
3-1989   5-11-1989   TSO Table II
1989-4   6-22-1989   52.091
7-1989   9-28-1989   153.01
9-1989   10-12-1989  TSO Table IV
10-1989  11-9-1989   TSO Table III
2-1990   4-12-1990   153.01
1-1991   1-24-1991   153.01
1-1992   1-9-1992    152.01;
                     153.01
4-1992   7-23-1992   153.01
6-1993   9-23-1993   TSO Table I
7-1993   10- -1993   TSO Table VI
1994-1   2-24-1994   TSO Table IV
1994-2   3-10-1994   TSO Table IV
1994-3   7-14-1994   TSO Table IV
1994-5   10-27-1994  TSO Table IV
1994-6   12-8-1994   52.091
1995-1   1-12-1995   TSO Table IV
1995-2   2-23-1995   52.091
1995-13  5-25-1995   TSO Table IV
1995-14  9-14-1995   TSO Table IV
17-1995  10-26-1995  TSO Table I
1996-3   2-1-1996    TSO Table IV
1996-5   3-14-1996   52.091
19-1995A 3-14-1996   153.01
19-1995B 3-14-1996   153.01
1996-10  5-23-1996   TSO Table II
                     94.01—
1996-11  5-23-1996   94.06;
                     94.99
1996-13  9- -1996    94.01
1997-18  5-22-1997   52.091
15-1997  11-13-1997  TSO Table III
16-1997  11-20-1997  TSO Table III
98-11    - -1998     33.35
98-12    - -1998     33.36
1998-2   1-22-1998   30.05
1998-5   6-4-1998    TSO Table II
1999-1   2-28-1999   TSO Table II
2000-4   4- -2000    TSO Table I
2000-3   4-13-2000   TSO Table III
2000-5   5-25-2000   TSO Table II
2000-7   9-14-2000   52.091
                     73.01;
2000-14  12-14-2000  73.02;
                     73.99
2000-15  1-11-2001   52.091
2000-11  2-22-2001   TSO Table IV
2000-12  2-22-2001   TSO Table IV
2000-13  2-22-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-9   1-10-2002   52.091
5-2002   10-10-2002  TSO Table III
2002-6   - -2003     TSO Table IV
2003-5   - -2003     TSO Table II
2003-1   1-9-2003    30.04
2003-7   12-18-2003  TSO Table IV
2004-1   1-22-2004   153.01
2006-5   7-27-2006   153.01
6-2006   8-10-2006   TSO Table III
8-2006   11-9-2006   51.01
2006-7   11-30-2006  153.01
2-2007   4-26-2007   TSO Table IV
3-2007   7-26-2007   TSO Table IV
4-2007   8-9-2007    TSO Table III
8-2007   10-11-2007  TSO Table IV
10-2007  12-13-2007  TSO Table III
                     150.01—
                     150.05;
                     150.20—
                     150.23;
2008-1   2-14-2008   150.35;
                     150.36;
                     150.50—
                     150.55;
                     150.99
2007-9   6-26-2008   TSO Table IV
2008-4   7-10-2008   130.01;
                     130.99
2008-5   7-10-2008   TSO Table III
2008-6   8-14-2008   153.01
7-2008   11-20-2008  32.26
11-2008  12-18-2008  153.01
12-2008  12-29-2008  TSO Table III
2009-2   3-26-2009   TSO Table IV
4-2009   8-13-2009   TSO Table III
2010-1   1-28-2010   36.02
                     73.15—
2010-5   12-9-2010   73.19;
                     73.99
2010-6   2-24-2011   113.01;
                     113.99
                     95.15—
2011-4   1-12-2012   95.19;
                     95.99
2012-1   4-12-2012   151.01;
                     151.02
2012-2   4-12-2012   36.01
2012-5   8-9-2012    TSO Table II
7-2012   12-20-2012  52.091
2013-2   1-10-2013   TSO Table II
2013-1   3-28-2013   TSO Table II
2013-4   9-25-2013   TSO Table II
2013-6   12-12-2013  52.091
                     92.01—
2014-2   - -2014     92.06;
                     92.99
2014-1   5-22-2014   93.07;
                     93.99
2014-4   7-24-2014   95.01;
                     95.99
7-2014   11-13-2014  153.01
2015-7   3-26-2015   36.01
                     52.001—
                     52.004;
                     52.015—
                     52.023;
2015-6   6-25-2015   52.035—
                     52.050;
                     52.065—
                     52.078;
                     52.090;
                     52.999
2015-9   8-13-2015   TSO Table II
2015-13  12-10-2015  Ch. 74, Schd. III
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I;
2015-14  12-10-2015  Ch. 74, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. I
2016-1   6-23-2016   30.03
2016-2   9-8-2016    151.03—
                     151.07
2016-03  10-13-2016  TSO Table II
2016-05  10-27-2016  TSO Table II
2016-6   11-17-2016  TSO Table II
2017-1   2-23-2017   TSO Table V
2018-1   3-22-2018   TSO Table II
2-2018   5-10-2018   153.01
4-2018   7-26-2018   52.091
2019-2   8-8-2019    TSO Table II
1-2020   2-27-2020   153.01
2-2020   2-27-2020   153.01
4-2020   2-27-2020   153.01
6-2020   12-10-2020  153.01
2021-6   - -2021     34.01—
                     34.06
2021-1   3-25-2021   73.03;
                     73.99
2021-2   8-26-2021   TSO Table II
2021-3   8-26-2021   TSO Table II
2021-4   10-14-2021  71.01;
                     71.99
2-2022   4-28-2022   153.01
3-2022   5-12-2022   TSO Table III
                     91.01—
2022-4   9-22-2022   91.08;
                     91.24;
                     91.99
1-2023   4-13-2023   153.01
2-2023   4-13-2023   153.01
3-2023   4-13-2023   153.01
                    
 
