SWITZERLAND COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. No. 08-21-2017-3, passed 8-21-2017
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Switzerland Code”, for which designation “Code of Ordinances”, “Codified
Ordinances”, or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk of the County Council.
      COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
      COUNCIL. The County Council.
      COUNTY. Switzerland County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME or
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AND COUNTY COUNCIL
      
32.   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   E-9-1-1 communications
   
30.02   County cellular telephones
   
30.03   Duty-issued weapons
   
30.04   Polling places
   
30.05   Bonds for county officials
§ 30.01  E-9-1-1 COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The E-9-1-1 Department is dissolved; all duties and
responsibilities of that Department are now the responsibility of the County
Communications Department.
      (2)   The position of E-9-1-1 Coordinator is re-named the E-9-1-
1 Addressing Coordinator. The employee in that position shall be supervised by
the County Communications Director and perform all duties set forth in the job
description of the E-9-1-1 Addressing Coordinator.
   (B)   There is hereby set a new surcharge for all 9–1-1 calls in the amount
$2; this increase becomes effective on March 1, 1997.
(Ord. 97-01-21-B, passed 1-21-1997; Ord. 09-03-02, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 30.02  COUNTY CELLULAR TELEPHONES.
   The County Board of Commissioners have determined that the following county
employees shall be allowed to have the use of county-purchased cellular
telephones:
   (A)   Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   County Council President;
   (C)   County Sheriff;
   (D)   County Communications Director;
   (E)   County Highway Supervisor; and
   (F)   County EMA Director.
(Ord. 09-18-06, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 30.03  DUTY-ISSUED WEAPONS.
   (A)   This section shall affect County Sheriff’s office personnel who will
retire after December 1, 2014.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall have the authority to release and legally
transfer, to the retiring Sheriff’s office member, one of his or her duty-
issued sidearms.
   (C)   The retiring Deputy or Sheriff must have served honorably as a Merit
Officer of the County Sheriff’s office for a minimum of 20 years, and meet the
definition of a “qualified retired law enforcement officer” as defined in 18
U.S.C. § 926C.
   (D)   The Board hereby delegates to the County Sheriff’s Merit Board the
authority to determine whether a retiring Deputy or Sheriff is in all respects
qualified to receive this recognition; and delegates to the County Sheriff the
authority to determine what firearm is to be transferred and to sign all
documents and comply with all the laws necessary to effect the legal transfer
of that firearm.
   (E)   The County Sheriff’s office shall issue to the retiring member a
retired badge, and a retired ID card that provides for name and retiring rank
and indicates the authority to retain the employee’s firearm.
(Ord. 12-29-2014, passed 12- -2014)
§ 30.04  POLLING PLACES.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to the availability of § 101 of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002, being Pub. Law No. 107-252, monies to the county under the Help
America Vote Act of 2002, the county will make all permanent and temporary
improvements to each polling place not later the 31 days prior to the first
election following reimbursement (under Pub. Law No. 108-2008, being I.C. 3-11-
6.5-4) to comply with the polling place accessibility standards set forth in
I.C. 3-11-8, and to the extent possible, make any additional improvements
identified by the “polling public place accessibility survey form” that are not
specifically required by state or federal law.
      (2)   The county will submit a report to the State Election Division no
later than December 31, 2010. The report under the section must list the
polling place accessibility problems identified by the polling public place
accessibility survey form poll workers or voters; and indicate whether these
problems have been resolved by temporary or permanent improvements or whether
the polling place has been relocated to an accessible facility. If the report
indicates that the problems have not yet been resolved, the report must
indicate how the county will resolve the problem prior to the next scheduled
election. The county agrees to submit any additional reports required by the
State Election Division until the county reports that the polling place
accessibility requirements identified in the May 2004 survey have been
resolved. The report must be certified as accurate by majority vote of the
County Election Board, following review and opportunity for written comments to
be added to the report by the Local Advisory Council described in division (A)
(4) below.
      (3)   Each polling place will contain at least one voting system to
permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote privately and
independently.
      (4)   The county legislative body will adopt an ordinance to establish a
Local Advisory Council, comprised of representatives of the disabilities
community and elderly voters to provide assistance to the county in choosing
polling places. The Council may include any number of members, but must include
at least two representatives of the disabilities communities or elderly voters.
The County Executive shall appoint the members, and shall encourage county
residents with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliations, and
perspectives to participate. If county residents are not available to serve on
the Council, the County Executive may partner with the Governor’s Planning
Council on Disabilities to carry out the functions of the Council. (If this
Local Advisory Council exists from a previous reimbursement period, the Council
must meet prior to the first general election following reimbursement under
this application.)
      (5)   The county fiscal body pledges that § 101 of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002, being Pub. Law No. 107-252 monies received by the county will be
used to pay any outstanding obligations incurred by the county for the voting
system purchase subject to the reimbursement.
      (6)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations inclined by
the county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining § 101 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, being
Pub. Law No. 107-252 monies will be used to improve the administration of
elections for federal office in the county.
      (7)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this division (A), the
county will establish a separate non-reverting account in which all § 101 of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002, being Pub. Law No. 107-252 monies will be
deposited. (Section 101 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, being Pub. Law
No. 107-252 monies cannot be mixed with Title III requirement monies nor with §
102 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, being Pub. Law No. 107-252 monies.)
      (8)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than 365 days and
amount equal to the § 101 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002, being Pub. Law
No. 107-252 monies received by the county if the State Secretary and the Co-
Directors of the State Election Division determine at any time that the county
has not:
         (a)   Provided at least one voting system is in each polling place to
permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote privately and
independently in accordance with Pub. Law No. 209-2003, being I.C. 3-11-15-
13.3; or
         (b)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this division (A) regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted uses
of these funds.
   (B)   The county is approved to operated as a vote center county starting
with the May 8, 2012 election.
(Res. 03-19-12, passed - -; Council Res. 03-14-12, passed - -; Res. 10-13-10,
passed 10-13-2010)
§ 30.05  BONDS FOR COUNTY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The County Council authorizes the County Auditor to purchase a blanket
bond for the employees of each department that:
      (1)   Is endorsed to include the faithful performance of; and
      (2)   Includes aggregate coverage sufficient to provide the coverage
amounts specified for all employees, Board of Commissioner members and persons
acting on behalf of the county, including the Auditor, Treasurer, Recorder,
Surveyor, Sheriff, Coroner, Assessor, Circuit Court Clerk and individuals who
are employees or contractors of the county and whose official duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, distributing or otherwise having access to
funds that belong to the United States government, the state government, the
county government or another governmental entity.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(d), the County Council sets as the amount of
bond for the County Auditor, Treasurer, Sheriff and Circuit Court Clerk to be
in an amount equal to $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts which each
department or office received during the last complete fiscal year before the
purchase of the bond, but in no case shall said bond be less than $30,000, nor
more than $300,000.
   (C)   The bond shall also provide for fee recovery of reasonable audit and
investigative expenses, if any, incurred by the State Board of Accounts.
(Council Ord. 01-13-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
CHAPTER 31:  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AND COUNTY COUNCIL
Section
Board of Commissioners
   
31.01   Board of Commissioners
   
31.02   Board of Commissioners’ meeting
   
31.03   Board of Commissioners as trustees of Moorefield-Bennington Sewer
District
   
31.04   Board of Commissioners to operate the Moorefield-Bennington Eco-
Treatment Project
County Council
   
31.15   Council members
   
31.16   Council as district authority for Moorefield-Bennington Sewer District
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.01  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall be elected by the voters of the entire
county, but shall be residents of, and represent the following districts:
   (A)   One Board of Commissioner from District One composed of Craig and
Jefferson Townships;
   (B)   One Board of Commissioner from District Two composed of York and Posey
Townships; and
   (C)   One Board of Commissioner from District Three composed of Pleasant and
Cotton Townships.
(Ord. passed 12-30-1991)
§ 31.02  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS’ MEETING.
   (A)   The first and third Mondays of each month be and are hereby
established as the regular Board of Commissioners’ meeting dates for the year
1994.
   (B)   When one of these dates is a holiday, the Board of Commissioners shall
meet on the next day (Tuesday) and that day shall be considered a regular
meeting date.
(Res. passed 1-3-1994)
§ 31.03  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AS TRUSTEES OF MOOREFIELD-BENNINGTON SEWER
DISTRICT.
   The Board of Commissioners are hereby designated the trustees of the
Moorefield-Bennington Sewer District.
(Ord. 01-03-11, passed 1-3-2011)
§ 31.04  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO OPERATE THE MOOREFIELD-BENNINGTON ECO-
TREATMENT PROJECT.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners shall operate the Moorefield-
Bennington Eco-Treatment Project, which Project constitutes a sewage works.
   (B)   The schedule of rates and charges shall be those attached hereto as
Exhibit A, which is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein, which rates may be amended
and modified hereafter by the Board. Said rates were adopted after notice and a
public hearing held _______.
   (C)   The current service area for the project is shown on Exhibit B, which
is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully
as if set out at length herein. The Board may enlarge or modify said service
area by adopting a new map.
   (D)   All lots, tracts, residences, and businesses within the service area
which produce sewage or similar waste shall be required to hook on to the
project if the sewer line is within 300 feet of the lot line of the affected
property pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-30.
   (E)   The rates and charges for the Moorefield-Bennington Eco-Treatment
Project shall not be submitted to the jurisdiction of the State Utility
Regulatory Commission.
   (F)   Each lot, tract, residence, or business that applies for a connection
prior to February 1, 2011 may connect without a connection or tap fee.
Thereafter any new connection shall require a connection fee of _____________
($        ) and the applicant shall also pay the pro-rata share of the actual
cost to run a service line from their building or residence to the sewer line.
   (G)   There is hereby created in the office of the County Auditor of the
Moorefield-Bennington Eco-Treatment Operating Fund. All user fees and
connection fees shall be deposited into this account.
   (H)   The Board may contract with an entity or business to perform monthly
billing services and with a contractor or contractors to provide connections to
the sewer lines. These expenses will be paid out of the Fund. Said funds may
also be used to maintain, repair, improve, and extend the project and to pay
all costs of operating and administrating the project. Said expenditures will
be submitted as claims for approval by the Board.
   (I)   If a monthly bill is not paid by the tenth day of the following month,
then it shall be late and subject to a 10% late penalty. The county shall also
be entitled to collect court costs, interest, and a reasonable attorney’s fee
if legal action to collect an unpaid sewer bill is required.
(Ord. 2010-03-21-11, passed 3-21-2011)
COUNTY COUNCIL
§ 31.15  COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The County Council members shall be elected from the following districts:
   (A)   Three members from the county at large;
   (B)   One member from District One composed of Jefferson One and Jefferson
Two precincts;
   (C)   One member from District Two composed of Jefferson Three, York, and
Post One precincts;
   (D)   One member from District Three composed of Craig and Precinct
Districts; and
   (E)   One member from District Four composed of Posey Two, Cotton One, and
Cotton Two precincts.
(Ord. passed 12-30-1991)
§ 31.16  COUNCIL AS DISTRICT AUTHORITY FOR MOOREFIELD-BENNINGTON SEWER
DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 13-26-15-11(B), the County Council is hereby established as
the district authority for the Moorefield-Bennington Sewer District.
(Ord. 01-03-11, passed 1-3-2011)
CHAPTER 32:  BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Communications Department
   
32.02   County School Safety Commission
   
32.03   County Public School Endowment Corporation
   
32.04   Capital Projects Board
   
32.05   County Department of Economic Development
   
32.06   County Emergency Advisory Council and Emergency Management Organization
   
32.07   Police Reserves
   
32.08   Local Health Department
   
32.09   Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Industry Commission
   
32.10   County Area Plan Commission
   
32.11   County Department of Redevelopment
   
32.12   Moorefield-Bennington Sewer District
§ 32.01  COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT.
   The county adopted a resolution on April 2, 2001 to create a Communications
Department which is to be totally separate from the Jail and Sheriff’s
Departments.
(Res. 01-04-02, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 32.02  COUNTY SCHOOL SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   A county may establish a County School Safety Commission.
   (B)   The members of the Commission are as follows:
      (1)   The school safety specialist for each school corporation located in
whole or in part in the county;
      (2)   The Judge of the court having juvenile jurisdiction in the county
or the Judge’s designee;
      (3)   The County Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee;
      (4)   The chief officer of every other law enforcement agency in the
county, or the chief officer’s designee;
      (5)   A representative of the juvenile probation system, appointed by the
Judge described under division (B)(2) above;
      (6)   Representatives of community agencies that work with children
within the county;
      (7)   A representative of the state police district that serves the
county;
      (8)   A representative of the Prosecuting Attorney’s Council of the state
who specializes in the prosecution of juveniles; and
      (9)   Other appropriate individuals selected by the Commission.
   (C)   If a Commission is established, the school safety specialist of the
school corporation having the largest average daily membership (as defined in
I.C. 20-18-2-2) in the county shall convene the initial meeting of the
Commission.
   (D)   The members shall annually elect a Chairperson.
   (E)   A Commission shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Perform a cumulative analysis of school safety needs within the
county;
      (2)   Coordinate and make recommendations for the following:
         (a)   Prevention of juvenile offenses and improving the reporting of
juvenile offenses within the schools;
         (b)   Proposals for identifying and assessing children who are at high
risk of becoming juvenile offenders;
         (c)   Methods to meet the educational needs of children who have been
detained as juvenile offenders;
         (d)   Methods to improve communications among agencies that work with
children;
         (e)   Methods to improve security and emergency preparedness;
         (f)   Additional equipment or personnel that are necessary to carry
out safety plans; and
         (g)   Any other topic the Commission considers necessary to improve
school safety within the school corporations within the Commission’s
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission in developing and requesting grants for safety plans;
      (4)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission and the participating school corporations in developing and
requesting grants for school safe haven programs under I.C. 5-2-10.1-7.
      (5)   Assist each participating school corporation in carrying out the
school corporation’s safety plans; and
   (F)   The affirmative votes of a majority of the voting members of the
Commission are required for the Commission to take action on a measure.
(Ord. 06-17-13, passed - -)
§ 32.03  COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL ENDOWMENT CORPORATION.
   (A)   Amended code of by-laws.
      (1)   Identification.
         (a)   Name. The name of the corporation is “The Switzerland County
Public School Endowment Corporation” (hereinafter referred to as
“Corporation”).
         (b)   Principal office. The post office address of the principal
office of the Corporation is County Auditor, Switzerland County Courthouse, 212
West Main Street, Vevay, Indiana 47043.
         (c)   Seal. The Corporation shall not have a corporate seal and a seal
shall not be necessary or affect the validity of any corporate transaction.
         (d)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on
the January 1 in each year and end at December 31 next succeeding.
      (2)   Membership. There shall be no formal membership.
      (3)   Meetings of members. The Corporation has no members.
      (4)   Board of Directors.
         (a)   Election, term, and vacancies.
            1.   There shall be five Directors of the Corporation. The
Directors shall be the Superintendent of the County School Corporation, one
member of the County Council, who shall be selected and named by the County
Council, one member of the Board of Commissioners, who shall be selected and
named by the Board of Commissioners, one taxpayer at large of the county who,
shall be selected and named by the Board of Commissioners, and one taxpayer at
large of the county, who shall be selected and named by the County Council.
            2.   The first Board of Directors and terms of office shall be as
follows:
               a.   Superintendent of Schools for County School Corporation;
               b.   Member of County Council who shall serve for the duration
of his elected term of office;
               c.   Member of Board of Commissioners who shall serve for the
duration of his elected term of office;
               d.   Taxpayer at large of the county—appointee of the County
Council to serve for a two-year term of office; and
               e.   Taxpayer at large of the county-appointee of the Board of
Commissioners to serve for a one-year term of office.
            3.   Each Director shall serve at the pleasure of the organization
which selected the Director for a period of two years and any Director may
resign or be removed by a majority of said organization.
         (b)   Annual meetings. The annual meeting of the Board of Directors
shall be held in January of each year, beginning in the year 2002, as
designated by the President. Notice shall be provided as specified in division
(A)(4)(c) below.
         (c)   Other meetings. Other meetings of the Board of Directors may be
held upon the call of the President, or of two or more members of the Board of
Directors, at any place within the county, upon 48 hours’ notice, specifying
the time, place, and general purposes of the meeting, given to each Director,
either personally, by mailing or by telegram. At any meeting at which all
Directors are present, notice of the time, place, and purpose thereof shall be
deemed waived, and similar notice may likewise be waived by absent Directors,
either by written instrument or by telegram.
         (d)   Quorum. At any meeting of the Board of Directors, the presence
of three members of the Board of Directors shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum.
         (e)   Super majority. The affirmative vote of three members of the
elected Directors shall be necessary for the transaction of any business on any
subject at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
         (f)   Power of Directors. The Board of Directors shall exercise all
the powers of the Corporation, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, the
Articles of Incorporation (see Article X), or this division (A).
         (g)   Compensation of Directors. The Board of Directors shall receive
compensation which shall be duly fixed and determined by the County Council and
the Board of Commissioners pursuant to state law.
      (5)   Officers.
         (a)   Generally. The officers of the Corporation shall consist of the
President. Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer, and such other subordinate
officers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
         (b)   Election and term. The officers shall be chosen annually by the
Board of Directors at its annual meeting. Each officer shall hold office until
his or her successor is chosen or until removed in the manner hereinafter
provided.
         (c)   Resignation. Any officer may resign at any time by giving
written notice to the Board of Directors, the President, or the Secretary. Such
resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein. The acceptance of
such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
         (d)   Vacancies. Whenever any vacancies shall occur in an office, the
same shall be filled by appointment of the County Council or Board of
Commissioners, whichever appointed said member.
         (e)   President. The President, who shall be chosen from among the
Directors, shall be responsible for the active executive management of the
operations of the Corporation and he or she shall perform all duties incident
to the office of the President. He or she shall preside at Board of Directors
meetings.
         (f)   Vice-President. The Vice-President of the Corporation shall
assist the President in administrative tasks as directed by the President.
         (g)   Secretary-Treasurer. The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep or cause
to be kept in books provided for the purpose, the minutes of the meetings of
the Board of Directors, shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance
with this section and as required by law and shall be custodian of the records
of the Corporation. The Secretary shall appoint such assistants as may be
necessary to assist in the performance of said duties, subject to the approval
of the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall further be the financial officer
of the Corporation.
         (h)   Salary. Each Director of the County Public School Endowment
Corporation shall be paid $100 from endowment funds for each official meeting
of the Endowment Board attended. Officers also serving as Directors shall not
be compensated separately as an officer.
         (i)   Attorney. The Board of Directors shall also be allowed to employ
legal counsel by a majority vote of said Board and shall be allowed to fix the
attorney’s salary from time to time.
      (6)   Indemnification.
         (a)   Indemnification of Directors and officers. The Corporation shall
indemnify any person made a party to any action, suit, or proceeding by reason
of the fact that he or she, as testator or intestate, is or was a Director or
officer of the Corporation, against the reasonable expense, including
attorney’s fees actually and reasonably incurred in connection with the defense
of such action, suit, or in conjunction with any appeal therein, except in
relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or
proceeding; that such officer or Director is liable for negligence or
misconduct in the performance of his or her duties.
         (b)   Reimbursement. The Corporation may also reimburse to any such
Director or officer the reasonable costs of settlement of any such action, suit
or proceeding, if it shall be found by a majority of a committee composed of
the Directors not involved in the matter in controversy (whether or not a
quorum that it was to the interest of the corporation that such settlement be
made and that such Director or officer was not guilty of negligence or
misconduct). Such rights of indemnification or reimbursement shall not be
deemed exclusive of any other rights to which such Director or officer may be
entitled apart from the provisions of this division (A)(6).
      (7)   Contracts, checks, notes, and the like. All contracts and
agreements authorized by the Board of Directors, and all checks, drafts, notes,
bonds, bills of exchange, and orders for the payment of money, shall, unless
otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, or unless otherwise required by
law, be signed by either of the following officers: President and Secretary-
Treasurer.
      (8)   Amendments. A majority of the Directors of the County Public School
Endowment shall have the authority to recommend alterations, amendments, or
repeal of all or part of this division (A)(8) to the Board of Commissioners and
County Council which shall have the power by majority vote of each body to
approve or reject such changes.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above, originally dated August 22, 2000, is hereby
approved as amended this date to clarify that officers of the Corporation who
are also directors receive only the pay established for Directors.
      (2)   Division (A) above is hereby ordered appended to this section and
be made part of the official record of the Council.
      (3)   Each Director of the County Public School Endowment Corporation
shall be paid $100 from endowment funds for each official meeting of the
Endowment Board attended.
      (4)   All past actions of the County Public School Endowment Corporation
which are consistent with the County Council’s intent as expressed in this
division (B) are hereby ratified.
(Ord. 06-02-2008, passed 6-2-2008; Council Ord. 06-02-2008, passed 6-17-2008;
Ord. 2008-07-12-08-1, passed 7-12-2008)
§ 32.04  CAPITAL PROJECTS BOARD.
   (A)   This section is hereby adopted by the County Council to prohibit the
Capital Projects Board from reviewing, revising, and reducing the budget, tax
rate, and tax levy of each political subdivision located in the county.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication and passage according to law.
(Council Ord. 11-10-07, passed 11-10-2007)
§ 32.05  COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of Department. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, the County
Department of Economic Development is hereby established for the purpose of
economic development or pollution control facilities and shall be controlled by
the County Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   Appointment of members. The members of the County Economic Development
Commission shall be appointed by the County Executives. One of the members
shall be selected by the County Executives, one member shall be nominated by
the county fiscal body, and one shall be nominated by the most populous
municipality of the county.
   (C)   Term of appointment. The County Economic Development Commissioners
shall take office upon their appointment, and their terms run from February 1
after their original appointment for a period of:
      (1)   Three years, if selected by the County Executive;
      (2)   Two years, if nominated by the county fiscal body; and
      (3)   One year, if nominated by the most populous municipality.
   (D)   Procedure for selections and nominations for memberships of economic
development commissions; expiration of terms.
      (1)   After the adoption of an ordinance establishing a Department of
Economic Development, the clerk of the fiscal body establishing the Department
shall promptly notify the executives and fiscal bodies required to make
selections and nominations by this section. The officers required to make
selections and nominations shall do so within 15 days after receiving that
notice. Each selectee and nominee shall be appointed by the appropriate
executive officer ten days after he or she receives the nomination.
      (2)   (a)   At the expiration for the respective terms of each of the
original Economic Development Commissioners, their respective successors shall
be selected and nominated, before the expiration of the term, in the same
manner as the original Commissioner, and each succeeding Commissioner shall
serve for a term of four years.
         (b)   A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of his or
her term until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified. (See I.C.
36-7-12-9, as added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 309, § 31.)
   (E)   Appointment without nomination; vacancies.
      (1)   If a fiscal body fails to make a nomination within the time
specified by division (I) below (I.C. 36-7-12-9), the executive may select and
appoint a person without a nomination.
      (2)   If a person appointed as an Economic Development Commissioner fails
to take the oath of office required by division (F) below (I.C. 36-7-12-11),
within ten days after the notice of his or her appointment is mailed to him or
her, or if any Commissioner, after qualifying, dies, resigns, vacates his or
her office, or is removed from office, a new Commissioner shall be appointed to
fill the vacancy in the same manner as the Commissioner in respect to whom the
vacancy occurs was appointed. A Commissioner appointed under this division (E)
shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term. (See I.C. 36-7-12-10, as
added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 309, § 31.)
   (F)   Oath of office. Before beginning his or her duties, each Economic
Development Commissioner shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the
usual form to be indorsed upon the certificate of his or her appointment. The
certificate shall be promptly filed with the Clerk of the fiscal body that
established this Department.
(I.C. 36-7-12-11)
   (G)   Designation of initial and annual meetings; election of President,
Vice-President, and Secretary; terms of officers.
      (1)   An Economic Development Commission shall meet within 30 days after
its original appointment, at a time and place designated by the executive of
the unit, for the purpose of organization, and shall meet to reorganize in
February of each succeeding year.
      (2)   At the meeting required by division (G)(1) above, an Economic
Development Commission shall elect one of its members as President, one Vice-
President, and one as Secretary. Each officer shall serve from the date of his
or her election until January 31 after his or her election, and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified. (See I.C. 36-7-12-12, as added by Acts
1981, Pub. Law No. 309, § 31.)
   (H)   Adoption of by-laws, rules, and regulations; regular or special
meetings; quorum; approval of actions; public records.
      (1)   An Economic Development Commission may adopt the by-laws, rules,
and regulations that it considers necessary. Regular or special meetings shall
be held four at times and upon notice fixed by the Commission, either by
resolution or in accordance with the by-laws, rules, and regulations adopted.
      (2)   A majority of the members of an Economic Development Commission
constitutes a quorum.
      (3)   Actions of an Economic Development Commission must be approved by a
majority of the members of the Commission.
      (4)   The records of an Economic Development Commission are public
records. (See I.C. 36-7-12-13, as added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 309, § 31;
Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 310, §72.)
   (I)   Removal of Commissioner; judicial review; appeal.
      (1)   (a)   An economic development Commissioner may be removed from
office for neglect of duty, incompetency, inability to perform his or her
duties, or any other good cause, by the executive or fiscal body that selected
or nominated him or her.
         (b)   The Commissioner removed may obtain judicial review of the
removal by filing a complaint in a Circuit or Superior Court in the county, and
the burden of proof is upon the executive or fiscal body that removed the
Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The cause shall be placed on the advanced calendar and be
tried as other civil causes are tried by the court, without a jury.
         (b)   The court’s judgment may be appealed in the same manner as any
civil action. (See I.C. 36-7-12-14, as added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 309 §
31.)
   (J)   Salary for Economic Development Commissioner prohibited; certain
expenses allowed. An Economic Development Commissioner is not entitled to any
salary, but is entitled to:
      (1)   Reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance
of his or her duties; and
      (2)   A per diem allowance for each day he or she attends a Commission
meeting, if that allowance:
         (a)   Does not exceed the per diem allowance for members of the
general assembly; and
         (b)   Is authorized by the fiscal body that established the
Commission. (See I.C. 36-7-12-15, as added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No. 309, §
31.)
   (K)   Conflict of interest; disclosure; right to acquire property by gift or
condemnation.
      (1)   An Economic Development Commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement, or other contract made under
this chapter before any action by the Commission on it, and shall not vote on
any such matter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other law, a member of the fiscal body of a
unit may have a pecuniary interest in any employment, financing agreement, or
other contract made under this section if he or she discloses his or her
pecuniary interest before any action by the fiscal body on it and does not vote
on any such matter.
      (3)   If any property in which an Economic Development Commissioner or
member of a fiscal body of a unit has a pecuniary interest is property required
for the purposes of this chapter, that property may be acquired, but only by
gift or condemnation. (See I.C. 36-7-12-16, as added by Acts 1981, Pub. Law No.
309, § 31.)
(Council Ord. 08-10-02-11, passed 8-10-2002)
§ 32.06  COUNTY EMERGENCY ADVISORY COUNCIL AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ORGANIZATION.
   The County Board of Commissioners establishes an Emergency Management
Advisory Council and Emergency Management Organization, and adopts by reference
and incorporates as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein, all the requirements for appointment to said Board(s) and the
duties and responsibilities of said Board(s) as set forth in I.C. 10-14-3-17
and all other state statutes applying to the same.
(Ord. 11-07-05, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 32.07  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3,-20 the County
Police Reserves, which shall known as the County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit.
   (B)   The maximum number of said reserve unit shall be ten.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon its passage.
(Ord. 01-21-03, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 32.08  LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Health Department managed by a seven-member Board of Health
as an integral part of the county government administratively responsible to
the local appointing executive is hereby established effective July 1, 1991.
   (B)   This section takes effect immediately and is retroactive for all
health departments affected by Indiana Pub. Law No. 40-1989.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 32.09  CONVENTION, RECREATION, AND VISITOR INDUSTRY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission established.
      (1)   The Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Industry Commission is
hereby established.
      (2)   The Commission shall consist of seven members, with at least one
member engaged in the hotel or motel business in the county; no more than a
simple majority of the members may be affiliated with the same political party;
and each member must reside in the county.
   (B)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Town Board of Vevay shall appoint a number of the members of
the Commission, which number shall be in the same ratio to the total size of
the Commission (rounded off to the nearest whole number) that the population of
Vevay, Indiana bears to the total population of the county.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint the remaining
members of the Commission, according to the ratio spelled out above in division
(B)(1) above.
   (C)   Terms of office.
      (1)   All terms of office of the Commission members begin on January 1.
Initial appointments must be for staggered terms, with subsequent appointments
for two-year terms.
      (2)   A member whose term expired may be reappointed to serve another
term. If a vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified
person to serve for the remainder of the term.
      (3)   If an initial appointment is not made by February 1, or a vacancy
is not filed within 30 days, the Commission shall appoint a member by majority
vote.
   (D)   Removal. A member of the Commission may be removed by cause by his or
her appointing authority.
   (E)   Renumeration. Members of the Commission may not receive a salary;
however, Commission members shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary
expenses incuried in the performance of their respective duties.
   (F)   Oath. Each Commission member, before entering his or her duties, shall
take an oath of office in the usual form, to endorsed upon his or her
certificate of appointment and promptly filed with the Clerk of County Circuit
Court.
   (G)   Organization.
      (1)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose
of organization. It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice-
President, another Secretary, and another Treasurer.
      (2)   The members elected to those offices shall perform the duties
pertaining to the offices. The first officers chosen shall serve from the date
of their election until their successors are elected and qualified.
      (3)   A majority of the Commission constitutes a quorum, and the
concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to authorize any
action.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.10  COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-211, membership of
the county shall hereafter consist of a total of eight members as set forth
herein:
         (a)   The County Superintendent of Schools, or a representative
appointed by him or her who is a resident of the unincorporated area of the
county;
         (b)   The County Agricultural Agent;
         (c)   The County Surveyor;
         (d)   Two citizen members who are residents of the unincorporated area
of the county appointed by the County Executive; and
         (e)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area
of the county, appointed by the county fiscal body.
      (2)   Two Vevay representatives designated as follows:
         (a)   One member of the Vevay Town Council appointed by the Town
Council; and
         (b)   One citizen member who is a resident of the Town of Vevay,
appointed by the Vevay Town Council.
      (3)   One representative appointed by the Town Council of the Town of
Patriot, who may be either a member of the Town Council or a citizen member who
is a resident of the Town of Patriot.
   (B)   Terms of certain members.
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-217, the term of
office of a member of the County Area Plan Commission who is appointed from the
membership of a legislative body, is coextensive with the member’s term of
office on the Town Council, unless that Council appoints, at its first regular
meeting in any year, another to serve as its representative.
      (2)   In the event a representative is appointed by the Superintendent of
Schools, the term of office of that member is coextensive with the term of
office of the Superintendent of Schools; provided, that in no event shall the
term of the member exceed four years, unless reappointed by the Superintendent
of Schools.
   (C)   Appointment of citizen members; terms; removal.
      (1)   The appointments of any citizen members shall accompany the passage
and approval of this section.
      (2)    The initial term of the citizen members of the County Area Plan
Commission shall be as set forth herein:
         (a)   If a citizen member is appointed by the Town Council of Patriot:
one year;
         (b)   The citizen members of Vevay: two years;
         (c)   The citizen members appointed by the County Executive;
         (d)   The citizen member appointed by the county fiscal body: four
years; and
         (e)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third, or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment (see I.C. 36-7-4-218(e)).
      (3)   When an initial term of office of a citizen member expires, each
new appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years. A member
serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A member is
eligible for reappointment (see I.C.36-7-4-218(a)).
      (4)   (a)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-218(f), the
appointing authority may remove a member from the Area Plan Commission for
cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal, along with
written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address.
         (b)   A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving
notice of the removal, appeal the notice to the County Circuit Court.
         (c)   The Court may, pending the outcome of the appeal, order the
removal or stay the removal of the member.
   (D)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs among the members of the County Area
Plan Commission, the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the
unexpired term of the vacating member. (See I.C. 36-7-4-220.)
   (E)   Passage. This section shall take effect immediately upon its passage
and approval in accordance with the provisions of the state Area Planning Law,
being I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 6-5-95C, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 32.11  COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, the Board of Commissioners hereby
establishes the County Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”), for the
purposes and to exercise the powers set forth in the Act (see I.C. 36-7-14 and
I.C. 36-7-25) or otherwise granted by law. The Department will be controlled by
a Board of five members to be known as the County Redevelopment Commission (the
“Redevelopment Commission”), each of whom shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and alter its
adoption by the Board of Commissioners in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 00-11-20, passed 11-20-2000)
§ 32.12  MOOREFIELD-BENNINGTON SEWER DISTRICT.
   A county on-site waste management district shall be and the same is hereby
established as follows.
   (A)   The District’s name shall be “The Moorefield-Bennington Sewer
District”.
   (B)   The District shall address the need in both Moorefield and Bennington
to eliminate individual septic systems, many of which have failed and cannot be
repaired.
   (C)   The purpose of the District is to construct and operate on-site sewer
systems in each community, commonly known as eco-treatment, wetlands
facilities.
   (D)   The District will serve territory within one-half mile of the
intersection of State Route 129 and Smith Road and within one-half mile of the
intersection of Bennington Pike and Browning Road.
   (E)   The estimated cost of operating the system once installed will be
$1,500 per month.
   (F)   The plan for financing the ongoing operation of the District will be
by charging users a monthly sewer bill.
(Ord. 09-02-08, passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 33:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Personnel policies handbook
   
33.02   Sheriff and E-9-1-1 handbook
   
33.03   Flexible benefits plan
   
33.04   Drug-free workplace
   
33.05   Motor vehicle operations by county employee drivers
   
33.06   Nepotism
   
33.07   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
33.08   Misappropriation of public funds policy
   
33.09   ADA complaint/grievance procedure
   
Appendix A:   Waiver and Release of Liability Form
§ 33.01  PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The attached county personnel policies handbook is hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein, adopted December 29, 2008, and shall be in full force and effect
on January 1, 2009; and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written
personnel policies and procedures.
(Ord. 2009-02-02-09, passed - -; Ord. 08-02-10, passed - -; Ord. 01-05-09,
passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 02-22-11, passed 2-21-2011; Ord. 06-18-12, passed 6-18-
2012; Council Ord. 06-18-12-1, passed 6-18-2012; Res. 09-16-13, passed 9-16-
2013)
§ 33.02  SHERIFF AND E-9-1-1 HANDBOOK.
   The attached County Sheriff and E-9-1-1 communications personnel policy
handbook is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein, and shall be in full force and effect
upon adoption and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written personnel
policies and procedures.
(Ord. 04-06-09, passed 4-6-2009)
§ 33.03  FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts and incorporates as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein the attached
amendments effective as of the dates set forth in the attached amendments.
   (B)   The officers of the employers are authorized and directed to take any
and all action as may be necessary to effectuate this section.
(Ord. 04-18-05, passed 4-18-2005; Ord. 04-18-2005-1, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 33.04  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview.  The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the county and its employees. Since the county values each
employee, the county offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and
drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy. 
      (1)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
8120 and 21 C.F.R. § 1308.11-1308.15) and prescription controlled substances
which have not been prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for specific
treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter
drugs will also be treated as a substance abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include but are not limited to
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county-
owned premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official
event. Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is
never authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Auditor.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation. 
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (such as, whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The county will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or
drug tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
county; or
         (c)   When required by law, such as random testing of persons required
to hold a valid CDL.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Auditor.
(Res. passed 11-15-1993; Ord. 08-01-2016, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 33.05  MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATIONS BY COUNTY EMPLOYEE DRIVERS.
   (A)   Generally. Employees and authorized volunteers should avoid
transporting immediate family members in county-owned vehicles. This is the
case because state law exempts from liability the possible claims made by
immediate family members who are passengers in a vehicle operated by their
immediate family member and such claims are excluded from liability coverage by
the county’s automobile liability insurance policy. Recognizing that under
exigent circumstances a county employee or volunteer may need to transport a
family member who is a minor child, said employee or volunteer must execute the
attached “waiver and release of liability form for the county” (see Appendix A
below) prior to transporting any minor children.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMPLOYEE DRIVER(S). Any and all paid or unpaid employees, applicants for
employment, rostered volunteers, and other persons who may be required or
permitted to operate any motor vehicle while performing that person’s duties on
behalf of the county.
   (C)   Valid operator’s license.
      (1)   Each employee driver of the county shall at all times maintain a
current valid state operator’s license. Any employee driver failing to maintain
a current valid operator’s license shall be prohibited from operating any motor
vehicle while performing any duties on behalf of the county.
      (2)   Any employee driver whose operator’s license is suspended, revoked,
or otherwise invalid is immediately prohibited from operating any vehicle while
performing that person’s duties on behalf of the county. Each employee driver
shall immediately notify his or her immediate supervisor if his or her
operator’s license has been suspended, revoked, or becomes invalid in any
manner. Each employee driver is responsible for knowing the status of his or
her operator’s license.
      (3)   In order to ensure compliance with the foregoing requirements, each
employee driver shall provide to the county’s designated representative a copy
of his or her operator’s license, and shall further execute at least once per
year, and more frequently as required by the county, the attached valid license
statement and consent for driver’s license record check. It shall be the
responsibility of each office holder or department head to obtain and review a
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles driver’s license abstract for each applicant for
employment for an employee driver position. It shall further be the
responsibility of each office holder or department head to obtain and review a
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles driver’s license abstract for all existing
employee drivers at least one time per calendar year.
      (4)   Prior to obtaining the driving record of an employee driver, a
written authorization will be obtained from that employee driver. Any time any
of the above actions are taken, the employee driver will be provided with a
pre-adverse action disclosure which includes a copy of the driver’s MVR and a
copy of a “summary of your rights” under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, being
15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq. In addition, that employee driver will be given
notice either orally, in writing or electronically that the action has been
taken in an adverse action notice.
   (D)   Duty to operate safely and legally. Each employee driver is required
to operate motor vehicles in a safe and legal manner whether on or off duty
with the county. This includes the use of seatbelts by all employee drivers and
their passengers at all times required by law and compliance with any
restrictions on the employee driver’s operator’s license. Any employee who is
found guilty or pays a bond forfeiture on an offense for which points may be
charged under 140 I.A.C. 1-4.5-10 and shall immediately report that fact to his
or her supervisor. This requirement shall apply to all offenses described above
regardless of whether the offense is committed while the employee driver is on
or off duty with the county.
   (E)   Operation under the influence of substances, distracted driving, and
other unsafe practices. Employee drivers shall not operate any motor vehicle
while performing duties on behalf of the county while impaired due to alcohol,
prescription or nonprescription drugs, or any other legal or illegal substance
(s). Employee drivers shall not at any time engage in any activates that
distract their attention from the operation of any motor vehicles while
performing duties on behalf of the county. This shall include, but not be
limited to, the use of cellular telephones, computers, electronic navigation
devices, and/or text messaging devices.
   (F)   Accident reports. An employee driver involved in a motor vehicle
accident while performing duties on behalf of the county shall cooperate in the
filing of all law enforcement reports required by law and, in addition, shall
immediately inform his or her supervisor and complete a full and accurate
report on the form prescribed by the county or its insurance carrier.
   (G)   CDL license. Employee drivers required to have a CDL should abide by
all county, state, and federal requirements pursuant to the CDL and submit to
all tests as required.
   (H)   Discipline. The failure to comply with any of the foregoing
requirements, a conviction, or payment of bond forfeiture as described above
and/or the imposition of a driving prohibition as described above may result in
disciplinary action including, but not limited to, placement on restricted
duty, administrative leave, suspension, or termination.
   (I)   Mobile phone use. Employees should not text or use hand-held cell
phones while driving, except in an emergency. Should an employee need to take
or make a business call while driving, the employee should pull over and park
whenever possible or use a hands-free speaking device such as a speakerphone/
earpiece.
   (J)   County to provide certain employees qualified nonpersonal-use
vehicles. This section is based on federal regulations issued by the I.R.S.
that are subject to change by the I.R.S. and said federal rules or regulations
take precedence over this policy; however, at the time of adoption of this
section, the I.R.S. rules provide as follows.
      (1)   Non-taxable use of a county vehicle.
         (a)   An employee’s use of a qualified nonpersonal-use vehicle is a
working condition benefit. A qualified nonpersonal-use vehicle is any vehicle
the employee is not likely to use more than minimally for personal purposes
because of its design.
         (b)   Qualified nonpersonal-use vehicles as governed by I.R.S.
generally include all of the following vehicles:
            1.   Clearly marked, through painted insignia or words, police,
fire, and public safety vehicles;
            2.   Unmarked vehicles used by law enforcement officers if the use
is officially authorized;
            3.   An ambulance or hearse used for its specific purpose;
            4.   Any vehicle designed to carry cargo with a loaded gross
vehicle weight over 14,000 pounds;
            5.   Delivery trucks with seating for the driver only, or the
driver plus a folding jump seat;
            6.   A passenger bus with a capacity of at least 20 passengers used
for its specific purpose;
            7.   School buses;
            8.   Tractors and other special-purpose farm vehicles; and
         (c)   Bucket trucks, cement mixers, combines, cranes and derricks,
dump trucks (including garbage trucks), flatbed trucks, forklifts, qualified
moving vans, qualified specialized utility repair trucks, and refrigerated
trucks.
      (2)   Pickup trucks.
         (a)   A pickup truck with a loaded gross vehicle weight of 14,000
pounds or less is a qualified nonpersonal-use vehicle if it has been specially
modified so it is not likely to be used more than minimally for personal
purposes.
         (b)   For example, a pickup truck qualifies if it is clearly marked
with permanently affixed decals, special painting, or other advertising
associated with your trade, business, or function and meets either of the
following requirements:
            1.   It is equipped with at least one of the following items:
               a.   A hydraulic lift gate;
               b.   Permanent tanks or drums;
               c.   Permanent side boards or panels that materially raise the
level of the sides of the truck bed; and
               d.   Other heavy equipment (such as an electric generator,
welder, boom, or crane used to tow automobiles and other vehicles).
            2.   It is used primarily to transport a particular type of load
(other than over the public highways) in a construction, manufacturing,
processing, farming, mining, drilling, timbering, or other similar operation
for which it was specially designed or significantly modified.
      (3)   Taxable commercial rule.
         (a)   Under this rule, if the vehicle is not qualified as an exempt
nonpersonal-use vehicle, then the county is to determine the value of any
vehicle it provides to an employee for commuting use by multiplying each one-
way commute (that is, from home to work or from work to home) by $1.50. If more
than one employee commutes in the vehicle, this value applies to each employee.
This amount must be included in the employee’s wages or reimbursed by the
employee.
         (b)   1.   The county is to use the commuting rule if all the
following requirements are met.
               a.   The county provides the vehicle to an employee for use for
county business and, for bona fide noncompensatory business reasons, the county
requires the employee to commute in the vehicle. The employee will be treated
as if the employee had met this requirement if the vehicle is generally used
each workday to carry at least three employees to and from work in an employer
sponsored commuting pool.
               b.   The county establishes a written policy under which the
county does not allow the employee to use the vehicle for personal purposes
other than for commuting or de minimis personal use (such as a stop for a
personal errand on the way between a business delivery and the employee’s
home). Personal use of a vehicle is all use that is not for county business.
               c.   The employee does not use the vehicle for personal purposes
other than commuting and de minimis personal use.
               d.   If this vehicle is an automobile (any four-wheeled vehicle,
such as a car, pickup truck, or van), the employee who uses it for commuting is
not a control employee as defined under tax regulations. A control employee
includes an elected official.
               e.   For this rule, a vehicle is any motorized wheeled vehicle,
including an automobile manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways.
            2.   A control employee for a government employer for 2013 (most
recent year available) is either of the following:
               a.   A government employee whose compensation is equal to or
exceeds Federal Government Executive Level V. See the office of Personnel
Management website at www.opm.gov/oca/payrates/index.asp for 2013 compensation
information; and
               b.   An elected official.
      (4)   Sheriff’s Department. The County Sheriff’s Department has its own
set of standard operating procedures that apply to use of vehicles by County
Sheriff’s deputies. The current SOP of the Sheriff’s Department is attached
Resolution 02-18-2014 as “A”.
(Res. 02-18-2014, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 33.06  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or personnel policies of the
county.
         EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full-time,
part-time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The performance of
the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the county.
         RELATIVE. Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step-parent;
            3.   A child or step-child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step-brother or step-sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   An “adopted child” of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half-blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the county
in a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of
supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause his or her relative to be in the direct line of
supervision of that individual.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins service a term of an elected office of the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an
elected office in the county and the individual is in the direct line of
supervision of the newly elected official.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a spouse of the County Sheriff
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   This section does not apply to an individual who served as County
Coroner, who is currently ineligible to serve due to term limits under Art. 6,
§ 2(c) of the Constitution of the state, has received certification under I.C.
36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor in the office of County Coroner is a
relative.
   (D)   Impact of section of those individuals employed by the county on July
1, 2012.
      (1)   An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county.
      (2)   The following are not considered a break in employment with the
county:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation; or
         (b)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated
following by immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected official of the county. Each elected official
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the official has not violated this section. An elected official
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon passage.
(Res. 06-04-12, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 33.07  DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ELECTED OFFICIAL. A Board of Commissioner or County Council member of
Switzerland County.
         RELATIVE. Any of the following:
            1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step-parent;
            3.   A child or step-child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step-brother, or step-sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of
the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or sister
by half-blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosures of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
county shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statements must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statements must be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners and be accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final
action on the contract or purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statements must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Board of Commissioners or appropriate agency. The Board of
County Commissioners or an appropriate agency of the county designated by the
Board of County Commissioners shall make a certified statement that the
contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered
or make a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was
selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected official
of the county subject to this section shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the official has not violated this
section. An elected official shall submit the certification to the Board of
County Commissioners not later than December 31 of each year.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon passage.
(Res. 06-04-12-1, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 33.08  MISAPPROPRIATION OF PUBLIC FUNDS POLICY.
   (A)   Any public official, department head or employee with actual knowledge
or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public
funds is to immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the
State Board of Accounts and the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount.
   (B)   The materiality threshold at which point the county shall report
incidents of material variances, losses, or shortages, to the State Board of
Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $500;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $50 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $500 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $1,000 average per
month.
   (C)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Board of Commissioners level with appropriate documentation
retained by the County Auditor.
   (D)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage, or theft is determined
material pursuant to the county’s policy on materiality, the Auditor and/or the
Treasurer shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the
State Board of Accounts’ website there is a notification link, which allows
public officials to report via e-mail material irregular variances, losses,
shortages or thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable.
Reports will be followed up with a return e-mail or call to gather additional
information as necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses, shortages
or thefts are maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 07-05-2016-1, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 33.09  ADA COMPLAINT/GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The ADA complaint/grievance procedures have been established to meet
the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 and to
provide a safe community for all citizens. These procedures may be used by
anyone wishing to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs or benefits by
the county.
   (B)   The complaint/grievance should be in writing and contain detailed
information about the alleged discrimination including:
      (1)   Full name of complainant;
      (2)   Address of complainant;
      (3)   Telephone number of complainant; and
      (4)   Location, date and description of problem.
   (C)   Alternative methods of filing complaints, such as a personal interview
or audio recording of the complaint, will be made available for persons with
disabilities upon request. The complaint should be submitted by the complainant
and or their designee as soon as possible, but no later than 30 calendar days
after the alleged incident to the County ADA Coordinator.
   (D)   An investigation, if applicable and appropriate, shall follow the
filing of a complaint. The investigation shall be conducted by ADA Coordinator
or his or her designee. These guidelines are designed to achieve a thorough
investigation, affording all interested persons and their representatives, if
any, an opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a complaint.
   (E)   Within 15 calendar days of the investigation, the ADA Coordinator, or
his  or her designee, will respond in writing and where appropriate, in a
format accessible to the complainant such as large print, Braille or audio
recording. The response will explain the position of county and options for
substantive resolution of the complaint.
   (F)   If the response of the ADA Coordinator, or his or her designee, does
not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her
representative may appeal the decision within 30 calendar days after receipt of
the response to the Board of Commissioners. The appeal should be in written
form describing the initial complaint, the initial response and the reasons
that the initial response does not satisfactorily resolve the complaint.
Alternative means of filing appeals, such as personal interviews of a tape or
audio recording of the complaint, will be made available for persons with
disabilities upon request to the ADA Coordinator. The appeal should be sent to
the same address as the initial complaint was delivered. This request for final
reconsideration should be made within 30 working days. The Board of
Commissioners will render the complainant an agenda item and a description of
the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the Board of Commissioners and a
copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 working days after the final
appeal is filed with the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   The right of a person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the
complaint filed shall not be impaired by the person’s pursuit of other remedies
such as the filing of an ADA complaint with the responsible federal or state
agency. Use of the complaint/grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to the
pursuit of other remedies. These rules shall be construed to protect the
substantive rights of interested persons to meet appropriate due process
standards, and to assure that the county complies with the ADA and implementing
regulations.
   (H)   All complaints received by the ADA Coordinator and/or his or her
designee, as well as appeals to the Board of Commissioners and responses for
same, will be retained by the county for a minimum of five years.
(Res. 07-05-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
APPENDIX A: WAIVER AND RELEASE OF LIABILITY FORM
Waiver and Release of Liability Form for Switzerland County, Indiana
FOR MYSELF AND MY MINOR CHILD OR CHILDREN, I HEREBY ASSUME ALL OF THE RISKS OF
TRANSPORTING SAID CHILD OR CHILDREN IN A VEHICLE PROVIDED BY SWITZERLAND
COUNTY, INDIANA OR USING MY OWN VEHICLE TO TRANSPORT SAID CHILD OR CHILDREN
WHILE PERFORMING DUTIES FOR SWITZERLAND COUNTY, INDIANA anytime hereafter, and
waive, release, and discharge Switzerland County, Indiana and its elected
officials, employees, volunteers, agents, representatives, insurers, from any
and all liability, including, but not limited to, liability arising from the
negligence or fault of the entities or persons being released, for my or my
child or children’s death, disability, personal injury, property damage,
property theft, or actions of any kind which may occur to me or my child or
children as a result of participation in the above described activity. I agree
to indemnify, hold harmless, and promise not to sue the entities or persons
mentioned above from any and all liabilities or claims made as a result of
operation of vehicles as described above, whether caused by the negligence of
those released or otherwise.
This accident waiver and release of liability shall be construed broadly to
provide a release and waiver to the maximum extent permissible under applicable
law. I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE READ THIS DOCUMENT, AND I FULLY UNDERSTAND ITS
CONTENT. I AM AWARE THAT THIS IS A RELEASE OF LIABILITY AND A CONTRACT AND I
SIGN IT OF MY OWN FREE WILL.
_________________    _________      _____________________________
Print Drivers Name   Age           Driver’s Signature
_____________________________________________________________
Parent Signature (If participant is under 18 years old, parent must sign also)
PARENT/GUARDIAN WAIVER FOR MINORS (Under 18 years old)
The undersigned parent and natural guardian does hereby represent that he or
she is, in fact, acting in such capacity, has consented to his or her child,
children, or ward being transported as described above in a county-provided
vehicle or while I am on county business in a private vehicle and agree
individually and as parent or guardian on behalf of the child, children, or
ward, to the terms of the Waiver and Release of Liability set forth above. The
undersigned parent or guardian further agrees to save and hold harmless and
indemnify each and all of the parties referred to above from all liability,
loss, cost, claim, or damage whatsoever which may be imposed upon those parties
because of any defect in or lack of such capacity to so act and release those
parties on behalf of the minor or minors and the parents or legal guardian.
_________________________    ______   ___________________
Print Child’s Name         Age      Date
_________________________   _______   ___________________
Print Child’s Name         Age      Date
__________________________   _______   ______________________
Signature of Parent or Guardian   Age      Date
(Res. 02-18-2014, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Board of Commissioners as purchasing agent
   
34.02   Fixed assets
   
34.03   Auditor; duties, responsibilities, and the like
   
34.04   Sales disclosure forms
   
34.05   Adopting a county credit card policy
   
34.06   Hoosier Project Safe-T funds account
   
34.07   Feeding of prisoners appropriations
   
34.08   Prisoner reimbursement
   
34.09   Payment of invoices
   
34.10   Small purchases
Taxes
   
34.25   Increase of county option income tax
   
34.26   County innkeeper’s tax
   
34.27   Guidelines for 137Bs following a tax sale
Fees
   
34.40   Electronic map data fees
   
34.41   Violent sexual offender registration/change of address fees
   
34.42   License fees for horse-drawn carriages
   
34.43   9-1-1 and dispatch fees
   
34.44   Jack Sullivan County Senior Citizens Center
   
34.45   Deed transfer fee
   
34.46   Inspecting titles to motor vehicle fees
   
34.47   Courthouse fees
   
34.48   EMS fees
Funds
   
34.60   Dedicating revenue from NACO drug cards to the County General Fund
   
34.61   County-specific funds
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AS PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Board of Commissioners is hereby designated as purchasing agent for the
purposes outlined in I.C. 36-2-6-17.
(Res. 98-09-08-AAJ, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 34.02  FIXED ASSETS.
   (A)   Any item considered for the fixed assets ledger, which is kept in the
Auditor’s office, shall be worth $5,000 or more.
   (B)   (1)   The base for the fixed assets ledger shall be the sum of $1,000.
Any asset $1,000 or less shall not be required to be placed in the fixed assets
ledger. Any asset over $1,000 shall be reported to the Auditor by the
purchasing office holder, to be placed in the fixed assets ledger.
      (2)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect after its
passage and publication required by law.
(Ord. 2001-01-09-04, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 03-19-07, passed 3-19-2007)
§ 34.03  AUDITOR; DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   When an affidavit is presented to the Auditor for transfer of real
estate, it shall be accompanied by a state sales disclosure.
   (B)   (1)   The County Auditor is authorized to pay the following invoices
upon receipt:
         (a)   Utility bills;
         (b)   Certain ongoing contractual obligations;
         (c)   State unemployment insurance claims;
         (d)   Claims by county employees for mileage and expenses incurred
attending mandatory or approved training or continuing education for their
position with the county;
         (e)   Poll worker claims; and
         (f)   Claims authorized by state statute to be paid prior to Board of
Commissioner approval.
      (2)   All claims paid when received shall still be published, if
required, along with regular claims and submitted to the Board at its next
meeting following payment for review and approval.
      (3)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect immediately
upon passage.
(Ord. 12-06-10, passed - -; Ord. 05-21-12, passed 5-21-2012)
§ 34.04  SALES DISCLOSURE FORMS.
   (A)   The state sales disclosure form (SCSDF), properly completed, shall be
filed with the County Assessor for the following transactions:
      (1)   Quit claim deeds, even if not serving as a source of title;
      (2)   A transfer for no consideration or a gift;
      (3)   A document recorded to correct a prior recorded document; and
      (4)   A transfer of real estate based upon the filing of an affidavit.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall be paid to the County Auditor when the SCSDF is
filed for the purposes listed under division (A) above. The fee shall be
deposited into the County General Fund.
   (C)   The SCSDF required by this section shall be retained by the County
Auditor and need not be submitted to the state.
   (D)   This section be in full force and effect upon passage.
(Ord. 05-04-2015, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 34.05  ADOPTING A COUNTY CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   The following county credit card policy terms and conditions are adopted
December 29, 2008; and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written
credit card policies; and shall be in full force and effect upon adoption.
   (A)   The County Auditor, or designated elected official/department head,
shall be the designated official responsible for the use and issuance of county
credit cards. Account numbers and other information of county-owned credit
cards will be maintained in the Auditor’s office. The Auditor’s office shall
maintain an accounting system or log, which will include the names of
individuals requesting usage of county credit cards, their position, estimated
amounts to be charged, fund, and account numbers to be charged, and the card is
issued and returned.
   (B)   County employees may request the use of a county credit card for
travel-related expenses associated with attending conferences, workshops,
business meetings, or other work-related expenses. All requests, including
name, position, and stated amount(s) to be charged, must be in writing and
submitted to the County Auditor. County credit cards are for business use only,
and shall not be used for personal purchases. Other examples of specifically
prohibited uses include the purchase of alcohol and/or movies and
entertainment.
   (C)   County employees who are issued a county credit card shall only use
such card as approved by the County Auditor. When the purpose for which the
credit card has been issued has been accomplished, the card and all supporting
documents (i.e., receipts) shall be submitted to the custody of the Auditor’s
office.
   (D)   Payment of county credit cards should not be made on the basis of a
statement or a credit card slip only. Credit card payments must be made through
the statutory claims process. If interest or penalty is incurred due to late
filing or furnishing of documentation by an officer or employee, such interest
or penalty shall be the responsibility of that officer or employee.
   (E)   County-issued credit cards are the property of the county and
employees are required to return such cards and all supporting documents upon
request. If a card is lost or stolen, the employee should report the missing
card immediately to the Auditor’s office.
   (F)   County employees violating this policy shall be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(Ord. 2008-01-05-09-1, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 34.06  HOOSIER PROJECT SAFE-T FUNDS ACCOUNT.
   The Local Emergency Management Agency is authorized to use the funds in the
account containing Project Safe-T funds and donations to purchase a computer,
printer, camera, and accessories.
(Ord. 09-19-05-1, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 34.07  FEEDING OF PRISONERS APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-13.5(b)(4), the Board of Commissioners and the
County Council agree to make an appropriation from the County General Fund for
the feeding of prisoners in the County Jail. This appropriation shall be set
forth in the budget for the County Jail. Neither the Sheriff nor the Sheriff’s
officers, deputies, or employees may make a profit from the appropriation.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall be paid a salary from the County’s General
Fund in the manner that salaries of other county officials are paid.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall be allowed to retain the Sheriff’s tax
warrant collection fees as described in I.C. 6-8.1-8-3.
   (D)   (1)   The County Sheriff shall be allowed to charge a fee for
conducting Sheriff’s sales as provided in I.C. 32-29-7-3 or other applicable
state statute.
      (2)   All proceeds from this are to be deposited in the County General
Fund.
(Ord. 01-05-09-2, passed 1-1-2009; Council Ord. 01-05-09-2, passed 1-1-2009)
§ 34.08  PRISONER REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is:
      (1)   Sentenced for a felony or a misdemeanor;
      (2)   Subject to lawful detention, as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-186, in
County Jail for a period of more than 72 hours;
      (3)   Not a member of a family that makes less than 150% of the federal
income poverty level; and
      (4)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a Juvenile
Court; shall reimburse the county for the sum of the following amounts:
         (a)   The lesser of:
            1.   The per diem amount now and hereafter fixed by the County
Council; or
            2.   Thirty dollars; multiplied by each day or part of a day that
the person is lawfully detained in a County Jail or lawfully detained under
I.C. 35-33-11-3 for more than six hours.
         (b)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable
under this section.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due from a person under
this section. If the County Sheriff does not collect the amount due to the
county, the County Attorney may collect the amount due; provided, however, that
any such person may satisfy that person’s obligation to reimburse the county
under this section:
      (1)   By making payment in full within 30 days of release in the amount
of $15 per day multiplied by each day or a part of the day that the person is
lawfully detained in a county jail or lawfully detained under I.C. 35-33-11-
3 for more than six hours; or
      (2)   By the timely completion of a repayment plan ordered by the court
at the time of imposing sentence pursuant to I.C. 35-50-5-4.
   (C)   The effective date of this section shall be August 1, 1998.
(Ord. 98-07-20-AY, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 34.09  PAYMENT OF INVOICES.
   The following invoices shall be paid upon receipt in order to avoid having
to pay late charges: utility bills; certain contractual obligations; and state
unemployment insurance.
(Ord. 06-16-03, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 34.10  SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchases generally.
      (1)   Small purchases. A purchasing agent for the county may purchase
supplies with an estimated cost of less than $50,000 or the amount specified
for small purchases pursuant to I.C. 5-22-8-2. which ever is greater, on the
open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
      (2)   Small purchases of $50,001 to $150,000. A purchasing agent may make
a small purchase expected to be between $50,001 and $150,000 by soliciting
three quotes and waiting seven days as specifically set out in I.C. 5-22-8-3.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon passage and recordation or publication as required by law.
(Ord. 05-07-2012, passed 5-7-2012)
TAXES
§ 34.25  INCREASE OF COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX.
   The county option income tax is hereby increased, pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-6-9
(a), and shall increase by 0.1% each July 1 beginning July 1, 1997 and
continuing until the maximum of 1% is met.
(Res. 97-03-24F, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 34.26  COUNTY INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The Council does hereby impose the tax on any transaction in the
county in which any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are rented or
furnished in any hotel, motel, boat motel, inn, college or university memorial
union, college or university residence hall or dormitory, or tourist cabin for
consideration, at a rate equal to 5% of the gross retail income derived from
lodging income only which tax is in addition to the state retail tax imposed
under I.C. 6-2.5, all as provided in I.C. 6-9-10. The tax shall be imposed and
reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer and shall be paid monthly to
the County Treasurer not more than 20 days after the end of the month the tax
is collected.
      (2)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
         (a)   A student rents lodgings in a college or university residence
hall while that student participates in a study for which the student received
college credit from a college or university located in the county;
         (b)   A person rents a room, lodging, or accommodations for a period
of 30 days or more; or
         (c)   A corporation, organization, or business exempt from the state
gross sales tax rents a room, lodging, or accommodations.
   (B)   Council will send a certified copy of this section to the Commissioner
of the Department of State Revenue immediately upon adoption of this section.
   (C)   The County Treasurer shall establish a Convention, Recreation, and
Visitor Promotion Fund and shall deposit in this Fund all amounts he or she
receives under this section.
   (D)   Money in the Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Promotion Fund shall
be used solely to promote and encourage conventions, trade shows, special
events, recreation, and visitors in and to the county, including administrative
and other incidental expenses.
   (E)   This section shall be effective January 1, 1992.
(Ord. 4, passed 10-26-1991; Council Ord. 4, passed 10-26-1991)
§ 34.27  GUIDELINES FOR 137Bs FOLLOWING A TAX SALE.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2003, no 137B may be turned into the County
Auditor’s office until six months after the date of the tax sale and all 137Bs
filed in the Auditor’s office will be accompanied by either a receipt for the
costs or a statement of costs, marked paid.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect following its adoption
by the Board of Commissioners of the county, and proper notice by publication.
(Ord. 11-04-02, passed 11-4-2002)
FEES
§ 34.40  ELECTRONIC MAP DATA FEES.
   (A)   Title. This section and any parts herein shall be known as the
“Switzerland County Electronic Map Ordinance”.
   (B)   Definitions. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-2, the following
provisions apply.
         ELECTRONIC MAP DATA. As used in this agreement is defined as
copyrighted data created and provided by a public agency from an electronic
geographic information system.
         PERSON. As used in this agreement is defined as an individual, a
corporation, a limited liability company, a partnership, an unincorporated
association, or a governmental entity.
   (C)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j) the county may charge a fee. Uniform
to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based upon a
reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining, upgrading,
and enhancing the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying the
electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (2)   In the case where disclosable and non-disclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from non-disclosable electronic map data.
      (3)   It is hereby established by the Board of Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic map
data is as set forth in an attached fee schedule that is incorporated as part
of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
      (4)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (D)   Exceptions to fee schedule.
      (1)   (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) any “public agency”, as defined
by I.C. 5-14-3-2, located within the county or within adjacent counties that
agrees to share with the county any electronic map information that that public
agency might have, if any.
         (b)   That is of the same type as is being shared by the county, the
county will agree to automatically approve a data sharing application with that
public agency and waive that portion of the electronic map fee that would
otherwise be retained by the county.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k) the county’s retained portion of the
electronic map fee shall be waived at the county’s discretion if the use of the
electronic map data will be used for a noncommercial purpose, including the
following; public agencies that do not agree to share with county the same type
of electronic map data being provided by the county, nonprofit activities,
journalism, and/or academic research.
   (E)   Third party contractor.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic map information may
be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer gateway, or by
agreement through a computer gateway of a third party contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-
3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this section may require the
payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party contractor, the county,
or both.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the county nor the third
party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that is specifically
excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (F)   Payment.
      (1)   Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery.
      (2)   Where the county has entered into an agreement with a third party
contractor to provide electronic map data through the third party contractor’s
computer gateway, the third party contractor shall handle the billing and
invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by U.S. mail that portion
of the fee due the county to the county’s Electronic Map Generation Fund within
ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to the third party
contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (G)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any office
or their contracted third party contractor to charge a fee for copies if the
fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the event the fees in
this section are contrary to any charges established by sate statute, the state
statute shall apply.
   (H)   Use restrictions and notice.
      (1)   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person,
other than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use
the electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes,
including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or
sendees, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information
obtained by request to any other person for these purposes.
         (b)   This includes the repackaging or assimilation of electronic map
data for a commercial purpose in paper or electronic media.
         (c)   The electronic map data may be used as a reference for
determining the accuracy of maps developed independently from the county’s
electronic map data.
      (2)   (a)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this
section or a rule adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the county
from obtaining any electronic map data.
         (b)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions, and
qualifications shall be provided to every person that receives a copy of the
county’s electronic map data.
 
Switzerland County electronic map data is the property of Switzerland County,
Indiana. All electronic map data supplied by Switzerland County has been
derived from public records that are constantly undergoing change and is not
warranted for content or accuracy. The county does not guarantee the positional
or thematic accuracy of the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a
legal representation of any of the features depicted, and the county disclaims
any assumption of the legal status they represent. Any implied warranties,
including warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose,
shall be and/or expressly excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction
of data contained in the county’s computer files. This data may be incomplete
or inaccurate, and is subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the
county cannot be held liable for errors or omissions in the data. The
recipient’s uses and reliance upon such data is at the recipient’s risk. By
using this data, the recipient agrees to protect, hold harmless, and indemnify
Switzerland County and its employees and officers. This indemnity covers
reasonable attorney’s fees and all court costs associated with the defense of
Switzerland County arising out of this disclaimer. The recipient may copy this
data into computer memory or onto computer storage devices and prepare
derivative works from it for the recipient’s own use.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than those
authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the electronic map
data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including to sell,
advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services, or sell,
loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by request to
any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information in a manner
contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may be
prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.
 
Please refer to Switzerland county Ordinance 200 _ for any other restrictions
on the use of electronic map data or penalties for the misuse electronic map
data.
 
      (3)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (I)   Electronic Map Generation Fund.
      (1)   (a)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the County Council hereby
establishes the County Electronic Map Generation Fund.
         (b)   The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall consist of fees charged
for providing electronic map data to person(s) in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8
(j) and be subject to the appropriation by the County Council.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the
Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be specifically dedicated to the following
purposes:
         (a)   The maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement of the electronic
map; and
         (b)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
   (J)   Dispute resolution. Any person who has a dispute, or seeks relief from
the terms of this section seek resolution of that dispute or relief from the
Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (K)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Complete map date layers.
         (a)   An annual fee of $1,500, paid in advance, for the continuous
transmission of available and disclosable county-wide non-photo electronic map
data layers.
         (b)   A fee of $759, paid in advance for a one-time delivery of
available and disclosable county-wide non-photo electronic map data layers
delivered on a CD or FTP site.
         (c)    A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one-time delivery of a
county’s most recent aerial photo layer delivered on CDs.
      (2)   Subsets of map data layers (for less than county-wide areas). A fee
of $150 per hour for the preparation of one time specifically requested subsets
of county electronic map data.
      (3)   Separating disclosable and non-disclosable data. A fee of $150 per
hour for computer programming required to separate disclosable and non-
disclosable electronic map data if this is required as apart of a one-time map
data request.
   (L)   Effective date. This section shall be effective on March 12, 2014.
(Ord. 03-12-2014, passed 3-12-2014; Council Ord. 03-12-2014, passed 3-12-2014) 
Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.41  VIOLENT SEXUAL OFFENDER REGISTRATION/CHANGE OF ADDRESS FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum
of $50 per calendar year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and
$5 for each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the
County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The registration fee is due on a calendar-year basis. Regardless of
when the offender registers initially with the County Sheriff’s Department, the
registration fee for the first calendar year is $50. For each subsequent year,
the registration fee shall be paid between January 1 and January 31 of that
calendar year. A fee is delinquent if not paid by January 31 of each subsequent
calendar year.
   (C)   The county now establishes a County Sex and Violent Offender
Administration Fund in the office of the County Auditor and the County
Sheriff’s Department shall deposit all funds collected for sex or violent
offender registration fees and address change fees for sex or violent offenders
into this account. The County Auditor shall monthly transfer 10% of any fees
colleted to the State Treasurer for deposit in the State Sex and Violent
Offender Administration Fund, I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (D)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund. The Sheriff may request money from the
account to defray the expense of administrating or ensuring compliance with the
laws concerning the State Sex and Violent Offender Registry.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effective immediately.
(Ord. 06-21-10-1, passed 7-14-2010; Council Ord. 06-21-10-1, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 34.42  LICENSE FEES FOR HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE. A buggy, carriage, dray, or wagon designed or
intended to use one or more horses as motive power. The term does not include
horse-drawn agricultural implements.
      OWNER. Owner of a horse-drawn vehicle includes any individual, firm,
corporation, or association that rents, leases, or has exclusive use of a
horse-drawn vehicle for a period of at least 30 days in any calendar year.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall make available for sale a numbered metallic
tag bearing the legend “Switzerland County, Indiana”, the year of issue, and a
consecutive number. The Auditor shall change the coloring scheme each year
providing for a white or light background and black or dark numerals and
legends.
   (C)   There is imposed upon each horse-drawn vehicle using the highways or
roads in the county a license fee in the sum of $25.
   (D)   Each owner of each horse-drawn vehicle shall pay the license fee
attributable to horse-drawn vehicles as set forth by this section to the County
Auditor, after January 1 and before March 31 of each year and shall receive
from the Auditor a numbered metallic tag for each horse-drawn vehicle. The
owner shall thereafter permanently affix the numbered metallic tag to such
horse-drawn vehicle.
   (E)   Each numbered metallic tag shall be valid from January 1 to March 31
of the following year for a maximum period of 15 months only, and all numbered
metallic tags shall expire at midnight on March 31 of the year following the
date stamped on said numbered metallic tag.
   (F)   All license fees collected shall be deposited by the Auditor in the
County General Fund unless and until the County Council provides by ordinance
for the funds collected by the Auditor to be deposited in the County Highway
Fund.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to use or operate a horse-drawn vehicle upon a
public highway in the county, unless the metallic tag required by this section
is attached to the vehicle.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to use or operate a horse-drawn vehicle upon a
public highway in the county, with an expired metallic tag required by this
section.
   (I)   Only one metallic tag required by this section shall be attached to
any horse-drawn vehicle at any time.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to transfer the numbered metallic tag from one
horse-drawn vehicle to another horse-drawn vehicle, or from one owner to
another.
   (K)   The Auditor shall issue a registration receipt for each numbered
metallic tag purchased. The registration receipt shall be counter-signed by the
owner of the horse-drawn vehicle. The registration receipt shall be carried in
or on the horse-drawn vehicle at all times of operation upon the public
highways.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to operate a horse-drawn vehicle upon a public
highway in the county unless the registration is in the possession of the
operator or contained within the vehicle.
   (M)   A violation of this section shall be a Class C infraction as defined
by the State Code.
   (N)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to
enforce this section, and any duly qualified and acting law enforcement officer
may enforce the terms of this section. Procedures for arrest and court
appearances shall be in accordance with I.C. 9 and proceedings for ordinance
enforcement shall be in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 et seq.
      (2)   No part of this section shall be deemed to conflict with the
statutes of the state regulating horse-drawn vehicles, but any conflict as far
as possible shall be reconciled under the statutory presumptions in I.C. 36.
   (O)   Each provision of this section shall be deemed to be separate from
every other section. If any one or more section shall be found to be illegal,
unconstitutional, or unenforceable, such findings shall not affect any other
section.
   (P)   This section shall take effect May 1, 2008, or as soon thereafter as
publication is had according to law.
(Ord. 03-03-08-6, passed 3-3-2008)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.43  9-1-1 AND DISPATCH FEES.
   (A)   The surcharge for all 9-1-1 calls henceforth be in the amount of
$2.37; this charge shall be in effect as of the date of this section.
   (B)   The charge for a local background check shall be $5 per request if not
record, $10 per request if a record exists, effective the date of this section.
   (C)   The charge for the following items are set:
      (1)   Copy of accident report: $5 per report; and
      (2)   Copy of photo CD from accident: $1 per picture on CD Rom; $3 for
each original photo.
(Ord. 07-02-07, passed 7-18-2007)
§ 34.44  JACK SULLIVAN COUNTY SENIOR CITIZENS CENTER.
   Only county entities (i.e., Courthouse, Jail, Sheriff, extention, highway,
health, nurse, managed clinic, and the like) can use the Jack Sullivan County
Senior Citizens Center without charge. All other entities must pay the fee(s)
that have been previously set.
(Ord. 10-03-05, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 34.45  DEED TRANSFER FEE.
   (A)   Whenever a deed is presented for transfer and it has more than one
endorsement or legal description, there will be a charge of $5 for each
separate parcel.
   (B)   This fee shall be in addition to any other fee provided by law.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect on October 1, 2003,
after is passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 09-02-03, passed 9-2-2003)
§ 34.46  INSPECTING TITLES TO MOTOR VEHICLE FEES.
   (A)   A fee of $5 shall be collected by the County Sheriff’s Department for
all motor vehicle title checks performed by its personnel.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall issue a Sheriff’s receipt to the
person paying for the vehicle title check.
   (C)   Once each month the County Sheriff shall remit all fees collected
under this section to the County Auditor, along with a monthly report or
collections.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall deposit all fees collected under this section
in the Vehicle Inspection Fund.
   (E)   This section shall become effective 30 days after legal notice of its
passage has been advertised according to law.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 34.47  COURTHOUSE FEES.
   The fees for copies made in the offices of the Courthouse will be as
follows:
   (A)   Xerox copy.
      (1)   One to four copies per day: no charge;
      (2)   Five copies: $1; and
      (3)   Each copy after five will be an additional $0.25 per page.
   (B)   Aerial map copy. $5 per page.
(Res. 11-15-04, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 34.48  EMS FEES.
   (A)   The fees for county EMS services shall be as follows:
 
Ambulance mileage        A0425 $16
ALS-1 non-emergency      A0246 $800
ALS-1 emergency          A0427 $1,100
BLS non-emergency        A0428 $600
BLS emergency            A0429 $750
ALS-2 emergency          A0433 $1,300
Specialty care transport A0434 $1,800
 
   (B)   The application for a hardship exemption from EMS fees shall be as
follows:
   Ambulance Hardship Application
 
It is the policy of your ambulance provider to require payment for services in
a timely manner. In limited cases, a hardship exemption may apply, when
properly documented and verified. In order to request a hardship exemption, you
must provide the information listed below and return this form within ten
business days. Failure to provide sufficient information and documents to
determine hardship eligibility will result in denial of your application. You
must sign this form, authorizing verification of the information provided.
After review of the information, your ambulance provider will determine your
eligibility for a hardship exemption, which may include monthly payments and/or
an adjustment to your account. If vou have received an insurance payment for
ambulance services, you are not eligible for a hardship exemption until you
have paid the full amount received from the insurance.
THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO COLLECT A DEBT AND ANY INFORMATION OBTAINED WILL BE USED
FOR THAT PURPOSE
 
_______________________________         _______________________
Patient Name                      Date of Service
Ambulance Service Provider Call Number
(1)   Are you employed?       YES    NO       Full Time:         YES    NO
_______________________________         _______________________________
   Name of Employer                                                 City
         State    Zip
(2)   Are you disabled and unable to work?      YES    NO
(3)   Are you retired and on a fixed income?    YES    NO
(4)   Monthly NET household income:    $       
(5)   Number of adults in household:     ___________
(6)   Number of dependents under age 18 in household:       
(7)   Have you received insurance payments for your ambulance charges?   
   YES    NO
(8)   Providing the following information will help in determining your
eligibility for a hardship exemption:
•   Copies of pay check stubs or unemployment check stubs for the past 30 days.
•   Copies of most recent W-2 withholding statements.
•   Copy of most recent income tax return, state or federal.
•   Any information that would show welfare or state-funded assistance
programs.
•   Documentation of any catastrophic situations.
•   Documentation of outstanding debts.
I certify that the information provided is accurate. I authorize verification
by the ambulance provider or authorized billing agency:
_______________________________         _______________________________
Patient Signature                   Date
RETURN COMPLETED FORM AND DOCUMENTS TO:
Ambulance Billing Services, Inc.
P.O. Box 727
Elkhart, IN 46515-0727
 
QUESTIONS? Call 1-877-293-3535 or (574) 293-3030
FAX: 1-800-294-1345
 
Attestation Statement
 
Attention: Wisconsin Physicians Service
Medicare Provider Enrollment
 
This letter is to attest that Switzerland County Auditor will be legally and
financially responsible in the event that there is any outstanding debt owed to
CMS.
________________________________________________________________________________
Printed Name and Title
________________________________________________________________________________
Signature and Date
(Res. 05-04-2016-1, passed 5-2-2016)
FUNDS
§ 34.60  DEDICATING REVENUE FROM NACO DRUG CARDS TO THE COUNTY GENERAL FUND.
   Revenue from the payments made by Caremark to the County Treasurer shall be
deposited by the Treasurer in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 04-02-12, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 34.61  COUNTY-SPECIFIC FUNDS.
Fund Number Fund Name Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
Fund Number Fund Name                      Ord./Res. No.            Date Passed
            County Building Corporation    Res. 05-10-2017          5-10-2017
            2017 Bond Proceeds Fund
            County Community Center        Res. 00-05-01-C          5-1-2000
            County Corrections Fund        98-03-02-0               3-2-1998
            County Drug-Free Community     -                        - -
            County Medical Clinic Fund     Council Res. 06-14- 03-4 6-14-2003
            Cumulative Bridge Fund         Res. -                   5-6-1991
            Cumulative Capital Development -                        4-19-1993
            Fund
            Education Plate Fee Fund       97-04-07G                4-7-1997
            Hollywood Park                 Res. 00-05-01-A          5-1-2000
            Jack Sullivan County Senior    Council Res.             6-14-2003
            Citizens Center (JSSCSCC)      06-14-03-5
            Nurse-Managed Clinic Fund      96-10-07-11              10-7-1996
            Riverboat Gaming Fund          Council Res. 96-04- 10-6 4-10-1996
            Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund 97-03-03-C               3-3-1997
            Tax Sale Fee Fund              -                        9-18-1995
208         Clerk’s Incentive Fund       02-21-06–1             2-21-2006
209         Prosecutor’s Incentive       02-21-06–2             2-21-2006
210         Hoosier Safe-T              02-21-06                 2-21-2006
212         Prosecutor ARRA Fund           10-04-10                 10-4-2010
213         Clerk ARRA Fund                10-04-10-1               10-4-2010
220         Supplemental Public Defender   08-02-10-1               8-2-2010
            Fee
238         Sex And Violent Admin Fund     10-04-10-2               10-4-2010
248         Probation Admin Fees           09-07-04                 9-7-2004
249         Rainy Day Fund                 03-01-10                 3-1-2010
250         COIT—New Construction        09-07-04                 9-7-2004
257         Psychiatric Treatment          09-07-04                 9-7-2004
258         Wireless 9-1-1 Fees            08-17-09                 8-17-2009
263         Emergency Response Team        09-07-04                 9-7-2004
264         Emergency Plan                 09-07-04                 9-7-2004
265         County Road Ordinance          Council Ord. 11-8-03- 9  11-8-2003
266         Interstate Compact             09-07-04                 9-7-2004
268         EMA/Homeland Security Grant    11-01-04                 11-1-2004
269         2003 Homeland Security Grand   02-21-06-3               2-21-2006
            Fund
292         State Mortgage Fund            02-21-06-5               2-21-2006
295         Deferral Prosecutors Fee       07-05-05                 7-9-2005
295         101 HAVA (Voting) Fund         02-21-06-7               2-21-2006
296         Title III (Voting) Fund        02-21-06-9               2-21-2006
297         Lifetime Housing Grant Fund    02-21-06-10              2-21-2006
298         County Identification Security 02-21-06-6               2-21-2006
            Pro Fund
299         Planning Study-Bennington Fund 09-15-08                 9-15-2008
300         Sheriff’s Service of Process 08-21-06-2               8-21-2006
            Fund
305         Child Restraint Violations     09-05-06                 9-5-2006
            Fund
316         Clerk’s Record Perpetuation  09-07-04                 9-7-2004
320         Florence Regional Sewer        -                        12-6-2004
            District
321         East Enterprise Regional Sewer 02-21-06-4               2-21-2006
            Fund
322         EDC-Community Comeback Fund    12-18-06                 12-18-2006
323         Homeland Security Grant Fund   03-19-07-1               3-19-2007
324         EMA Grant-Computers Fund       06-18-07                 6-18-2007
325         Danglade/Animal Shelter Fund   10-1-07                  10-1-2007
326         Homestead Credit Refunds Fund  11-19-07                 11-19-2007
327         HEA 1001-2008 HSC Distribution 08-18-08                 8-18-2008
            Fund
328         Community Foundation Grant/    09-15-08-1               9-15-2008
            Sheriff Fund
329         Spay/Neuter Fund               11-03-08                 11-3-2008
330         County Spay/Neuter Program     01-20-09                 1-20-2009
            Fund
331         2006 IDHS LETTP Fund           04-06-09-3               4-6-2009
332         2007 PSIC Grant                04-06-09-1               4-6-2009
335         PCA Fees                       01-20-09-1               1-20-2009
336         2009 Bond Issue                08-03-09                 8-3-2009
337         Redev. Revenue Bond 2010       02-24-10-1               2-24-2010
338         IHCDA-Owner Occupied Rehab     04-19-10                 4-19-2010
            Fund
339         Final HEA 1001-2007 20008 PTRC 07-19-10                 7-19-2010
            and HSC
340         Kennel Cover                   02-24-10                 2-24-2010
341         Veteran’s Monument Fund      03-07-11                 3–7-2011
342         Moorefield/Bennington RSD Fund 10-17-11                 10-17-2011
405         Town MVH                       06-21-10                 6-21-2010
515         ING Fund                       02-21-06-8               2-21-2006
1121        County Option Income Tax Fund  08-20-12                 8-20-2012
1151        Emergency Medical Services     02-16-2016-1             2-16-2016
            Fund
1181        Plat Book Fund                 12-21-2015               12-21-2015
1188        Reassessment 2015 Fund         10-03-11                 10-3-2011
1190        Debt Reserve - Bonds Fund      05-15-2017-1             5-15-2017
1193        Sheriff’s Pension Trust      08-03-2015               8-3-2015
1206        Local Health Department Trust  09-19-11-1               9-19-2011
            Account
1216        Auditor’s Ineligible         09-19-11-5               9-19-2011
            Deductions
1217        County Elected Official        09-19-11-4               9-19-2011
            Training Fund
1220        County Offender Transportation 03-16-2015               3-16-2015
            Fund
1222        State-wide 9-1-1 Fund          08-20-12-1               8-20-2012
1224        Reassessment Fund              03-03-2014               3-3-2014
1228        LOIT Special Distribution Fund 05-16-2016               5-16-2016
2501        CTY User Fees - SC Sheriff     11-21-2016               11-21-2016
            Fund
2502        CTY User Fees - Vevay Police   11-21-2016-1             11-21-2016
            Fund
2503        CTY User Fees - State Police   11-21-2016-2             11-21-2016
            Fund
2504        CTY User Fees - IDNR Fund      11-21-2016-3             11-21-2016
2505        CTY User Fees - Indiana Gaming 11-21-2016-4             11-21-2016
            Comm Fund
2506        CTY User Fees - School Fund    11-21-2016-5             11-21-2016
4101        Food Pantry Donations          12-19-11                 12-19-2011
4907        Mitigation Plan/Maintenance    10-07-13-1               10-7-2013
            Fund
4908        SC Redevelopment Commission    05-16-2016-1             5-16-2016
            Fund
4935        County Food Pantry Fund        10-01-12                 10-1-2012
4940        Extension/Administration       01-07-13                 1-7-2013
            Building
4945        County Technology/Education    10-01-12-1               10-1-2012
            Center Fund
4955        Blair Building Proceeds Fund   11-05-12                 11-5-2012
6000        Settlement Fund                09-19-11-7               9-19-2011
7104        Special Death Benefit          08-03-2015-1             8-3-2015
7111        Sex and Violent Offend Admin-  12-17-12                 12-17-2012
            St Fund
7302        Riverboat Revenue Sharing Fund 02-06-12                 2-6-2012
7315        LOIT 2016 Special Distribution 05-16-2016-2             5-16-2016
            Fund
7401        DEV/Interlocal Agreements Fund 10-07-13-2               10-7-2013
8101        2009 SHSP Train/Exercise Fed   12-05-11-3               12-5-2011
            Grant Fund
8102        2009 SHSP Equipment Fed Grand  12-05-11                 12-5-2011
            Fund
8103        2010 SHSP District Allo Fed    12-05-11-1               12-5-2011
            Grand Fund
8104        2010 SHSP Critical Infr Fed    12-05-11-2               12-5-2011
            Grant Fed Fund
8105        2011 EMPG Competitive Grand    08-20-12-2               8-20-2012
            Fund
8107        2011 SHSP DP Discretionary     03-04-13                 3-4-2013
            Fund
8108        2010 EMPG Salary Fund          03-04-13-1               3-4-2013
8109        2012 EMPG Competitive Grant    03-04-13-2               3-4-2013
            Fund
8110        2012 DRTF Equipment Grant Fund 03-04-13-3               3-4-2013
8111        2012 Train and Exercise Grant  03-04-13-4               3-4-2013
            Fund
8112        2011 District Admin Grant Fund 03-04-13-5               3-4-2013
8113        2011 Critical Infrastructure   03-04-13-6               3-4-2013
            Grand Fund
8114        SHSP District Allocation Fed   10-07-13-3               10-7-2013
            Grant Fund
8115        Foundation Grant Fund          12-02-13                 12-2-2013
8116        2013 EMPG Grant Fund           12-16-13                 12-16-2013
8118        2014 SHSP Grant Radios Fund    04-20-2015               4-20-2015
8119        2014 EMPG Competitive Grant    10-05-2015               10-5-2015
            Fund
8120        VSO Training Grant Fund        10-05-2015-1             10-5-2015
8121        2015 EMPG Competitive Grant    04-18-2016               4-18-2016
            Fund
8122        2015 EMPG Local Base Grant     04-18-2016-1             4-18-2016
            Fund
8201        Owner Occupied Rehab Grant     08-15-2016               8-15-2016
            Fund
8202        EERSD OCRA Grant Fund          08-21-2017               8-21-2017
8203        EERSD OCRA Grant - Retention   08-21-2017-1             8-21-2017
            Fund
8204        Local Road/Bridge Matching     08-21-2017-2             8-21-2017
            Grant Fund
8895        93.563 County IV-D Incentive   09-19-11-8               9-19-2011
            Fund
9101        IN Breast Cancer Awareness     09-19-11-2               9-19-2011
            Trust Fund
9104        VSCF/Indigent Meds Grant Fund  08-19-13                 8-19-2013
9106        CFSC 2016 Grant Fund           02-16-2016-2             2-16-2016
9111        Parks and Rec/VSCF Grant Fund  08-20-12-3               8-20-2012
9112        Parks and Recreation Community 09-19-11-6               9-19-2011
            Foundation Grant Fund
9113        9999 Emergency Mgmt Grant/     12-19-11-1               12-19-2011
            CFSCI Fund
9114        Sheriff Interview Room Grant   12-19-11-2               12-19-2011
            Fund
9116        Cemetery Matching Grant Fund   08-18-2014               8-18-2014
9117        CPR Training Supplies Grant    05-16-2016-3             5-16-2016
            Fund
9118        Manna Project VSCF Grant Fund  09-06-2016               9-6-2016
9119        Comm. FDN. Grant/Probation     08-21-2017-3             8-21-2017
            Department Fund
 
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99
   (B)   Any person(s) who violates the terms and conditions of §
34.40 by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for
total fee charged for the electronic map data, plus attorney’s fees and the
cost of collection. Any person(s) who violates the restrictions on the use of
electronic map data as set forth in §
34.40(H) shall be guilty of an infraction and may be fined by the county up to
$2,500, and each violation shall be deemed a separate offence. Also, in the
event that there is an improper use of electronic map data as set forth in §
34.40(H), or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the
person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data
and seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the person
(s) who originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person(s) who
has received a copy of the electronic map data.
(Ord. 03-12-2014, passed 3-12-2014; Council Ord. 03-12-2014, passed 3-12-2014)
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Scope
   
35.04   Limitations
County Advisory Council; County Emergency Management Director;
Department of Emergency Management, and the Like
   
35.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
35.16   Director of Emergency Management
   
35.17   Department of Emergency Management
   
35.18   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
35.19   Jurisdiction
   
35.20   Test of the Comprehensive Management Plan
   
35.21   County Board of Commissioners powers and duties
Principle Executive Officers, Board of Commissioners, and the Like
   
35.35   Applicability of subchapter
   
35.36   Principal executive officer; powers and duties; special emergency
powers
   
35.37   County Board of Commissioners; special emergency meetings; powers and
duties
   
35.38   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county
   
35.39   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules, and regulations;
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities
   
35.40   Limitation of liability during disaster emergency, emergency, or
emergency management tests
   
35.41   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to reestablish in the county the Department
of Emergency Management and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers
during disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The Switzerland County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to the State Code.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Switzerland County, as elected
pursuant to the State Code.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Switzerland County Emergency Management
Advisory Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to the State Code.
   COUNTY. Switzerland County, Indiana.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Emergency Management as established
under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(b).
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management as established and
appointed pursuant to this chapter in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2).
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
wave action, oil spill, or, other water contamination requiring emergency
action to avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot,
or hostile military or paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical, and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from
stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other
functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental to the preparation for and coordination of the
foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified, and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   IDHS. The Indiana Department of Homeland Security, the State Emergency
Management Agency established under I.C. 10-19-2-1.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another state another
county, a municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to
participate in the county’s emergency management programs and activities
pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C.
10-14-3-16.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN OR EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h).
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OF THE COUNTY). As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-
29 for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the “County Board of Commissioners”. If a quorum of the
County Board of Commissioners (two of the three Board of Commissioners) is
unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following establishes the line of
succession for PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
      (1)   Regularly Designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the
three Board of Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable
or is incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County
Board of Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the
purposes of this chapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (2)   President Pro-Tem of the Board of County Commissioners. If both a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the County Board of Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tem of the County Board of Commissioners
shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that either the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (3)   Remaining Board of Commissioner of the Board of County
Commissioners. If a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly
designated President of the Board of County Commissioners, and the President
Pro-Tem of the County Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the remaining Board of Commissioner of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that the President Pro-Tem, the regularly
designated President, or a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no
longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.03  SCOPE.
   (A)   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from emergency conditions.
   (B)   To this end, all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein shall be liberally construed to supplement and augment, not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, department, and agencies.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.04  LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Non-supersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff. Nothing in
this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory powers of the
County Sheriff.
   (B)   Non-supersession of emergency management powers of political
subdivisions; conformance of political subdivision emergency management rules
and regulations with county’s emergency management program and emergency plan.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the
powers granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision in the county
to adopt and implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency
management rules and regulations in the event of an actual emergency affecting
such political subdivision.
      (2)   However, such regulations and procedures as promulgated by said
political subdivision may not be inconsistent with the County Emergency
Management Program and Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan established in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
COUNTY ADVISORY COUNCIL; COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR;
DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, AND THE LIKE
§ 35.15  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   County Emergency Management Advisory Council; establishment. In
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(b), there is established the County Emergency
Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the following individuals or
its designees:
      (1)   The President of the County Executive;
      (2)   The President of the county fiscal body:
      (3)   The Mayor of each city located in the county:
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county;
      (5)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council, as non-voting members; and
      (6)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or the
commander’s designee (if any).
   (B)   County Emergency Management Advisory Council; officers. The Advisory
Council shall have a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, and a Recording
Secretary. The Advisory Council shall elect these officers for one-year terms.
   (C)   County Emergency Management Advisory Council; powers and duties.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the Emergency Management Program of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall recommend a candidate or candidates to
be selected by the County Executive as County Emergency Management Director.
This appointment shall be permanent unless it is terminated for cause by the
Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once every six months; the
frequency, time, and location being determined by the Advisory Council.
      (4)   (a)   The Advisory Council is subject to all of the requirements of
the State Open Door Law. (I.C. 5-14-1.5. et seq.)
         (b)   In addition, any records generated, received, retained,
maintained, used, or filed by the Advisory Council are public records subject
to the State Access to Public Records Act. (See I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.)
         (c)   Also, these public records are subject to the retention schedule
adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Public Records in accordance with I.C.
5-15-6 et seq.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.16  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Director shall be executive head of the Department and shall have
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
emergency management organization, including the following specific powers and
duties:
   (A)   Keep the Advisory Council fully informed on emergency management
activities;
   (B)   Keep the Board of Commissioners fully informed on emergency management
activities;
   (C)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the Board of Commissioners a yearly
report on the county’s comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery taken in the previous year,
and planned and recommended for the year to come;
   (D)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency
Management Agency are completed;
   (E)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, as required by the State Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses all
hazards and includes all cities, towns, and other population centers within the
county;
   (H)   Submit to State Emergency Management Agency the assessment specified
in IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required time frame for submission;
   (I)   Provide to the State Emergency Management Agency Director annual
reports and documentation as mandated;
   (J)   Competently manage the Department’s various functions, including among
others financial, personnel, and logistics;
   (K)   Timely respond to the County Executive or Chairperson of the Advisory
Council;
   (L)   Timely obey the directives of superior state authorities;
   (M)   Assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport with
I.C. 10-14-3-1 et seq. and other applicable statutes, rules, and county
ordinances;
   (N)   Shall develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as a site from
which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or
emergency;
   (O)   The Emergency Operation Center shall be located in the basement of the
County Technology and Education Center, Room 001 at 708 West Seminary Street,
Vevay, Indiana 47043;
   (P)   Attend and attain passing grades in the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first assuming the
position of Director;
   (Q)   Attend and attain passing grades in such emergency management training
as may be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
   (R)   Assure any Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades in, the
Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency management
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first
assuming the position of Deputy Director;
   (S)   Assure any Deputy Director’s and all paid emergency management staff’s
attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management training as may
be required by IDHS in subsequent years;
   (T)   Assure ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director and all
paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
   (U)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information, and education
regarding all phases of emergency management;
   (V)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for emergency
management;
   (W)   Maintain liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies,
public and private;
   (X)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel and
agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency
management purposes;
   (Y)   Seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval or ratification of
the Board of Commissioners and consistent with the State Emergency Operations
Plan and Program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and private
agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in accordance
with such arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of
an actual emergency affecting the parties;
   (Z)   Accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use of
the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency
management purposes by way of gift, grant, or loan, when the Governor has
approved such offer;
   (AA)   Seek and accept from any person, firm, or corporation, any gratuitous
offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds, or licenses
or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency
management purposes;
   (BB)   Issue proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers and
other people directly concerned with emergency management;
   (CC)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth below in §
35.17(A)(2)(c) prior to accepting them as members of the Department;
   (DD)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of:
      (1)   Property damage;
      (2)   Personal injuries;
      (3)   Fatalities;
      (4)   Basic needs; and
      (5)   Special needs as soon as an emergency or disaster declaration has
been made.
   (EE)   (1)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above,
the Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local
emergency management Director as provided under state law.
      (2)   In particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the
Department, may perform or cause to be performed with respect to the county,
any function parallel or analogous to those performed on a state-wide basis by
IDHS under the State Code.
   (FF)   The Director is not permitted to hold any other local or state
elective office, appointive position, or any other position that is created by
statute.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.17  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Department Of Emergency Management establishment; staffing; oath; and
prohibition of political activity.
      (1)   (a)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency
Management within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose
of utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible for
its organization, administration, and operation.
      (2)   The Department consist of the following:
         (a)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management;
         (b)   A Deputy Director may be appointed by the Director with the
approval of the Board of Commissioners. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the
duties of the Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve;
and assist the Director in the performance of the Director’s duties;
         (c)   1.   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director.
            2.   In addition to the other requirements in this section, the
Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the following
qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the Department:
               a.   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
               b.   Not be convicted of a felony; and
               c.   Have completed and have on file with the Department a
volunteer application form.
         (d)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and
designated by the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to participate in
emergency management activity;
         (e)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and
warning, radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and
search and rescue, public works, and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
         (f)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees or
volunteers as deemed necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with
the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27, no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this chapter who:
         (a)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional
form of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government
in the United States by force or violence; or
         (b)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27, each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual’s duties, take an oath, in writing, before a person authorized
to administer oaths in this state.
         (a)   The oath shall be substantially as follows.
 
“I, ______________________________________________ , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution of the State of Indiana against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about
to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates, the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am a member of the County Department of Emergency
Management I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence”.
 
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, the Executive Director of IDHS
and the Director shall be authorized to administer the oath provided in
division (A)(4)(a) above emergency management and disaster personnel; and may
delegate that authority to designated deputies and assistants as may be
approved by the Executive Director of IDHS.
      (5)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-26, the Department and its full-time
employees are prohibited from participating in political activity as follows.
         (a)   The Department shall not participate in any form of political
activity, nor shall it be employed for political purposes.
         (b)   Political considerations shall not be a consideration
reappointment to the Department nor cause for dismissal except as provided in
divisions (A)(3) above.
         (c)   Full-time employees of the Department shall not participate in
political activities.
      (6)   It is the intent of this chapter that emergency management and
disaster assignments under the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be
as consistent with normal duty assignments as possible.
      (7)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and
employees of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of
compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position may
not be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor shall any
person be appointed to such position without appropriation of sufficient
funding from the County Council.
   (B)   Department of Emergency Management; duties. The Department, subject to
the direction and control of the Director, shall prepare and implement the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, including the following specific
duties:
      (1)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form
a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and of the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17(I);
      (2)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (3)   (a)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state
and federal guidance documents and the requirements established under §
35.18.
         (b)   As part of the preparation of this Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, the Department shall:
            1.   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county;
            2.   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental
and private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
            3.   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a
disaster or emergency;
            4.   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
            5.   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns;
            6.   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of
government procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
            7.   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system
for both people and animals;
            8.   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training, and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
            9.   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
      (4)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to
keep it current, as required by the State Code; and
      (5)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
   (C)   Department of Emergency Management; budget and finance.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation
of the budget.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
      (3)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.18  COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as
the Interjurisdictional Disaster Emergency Plan by the State Code, shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   In the preparation of this Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the services,
equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies
shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and directive;
         (b)   Terms and definitions;
         (c)   Acronyms/abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial management.
      (2)   A hazards specific section which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards; and
         (b)   Special events.
      (3)   An operations section which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function;
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function;
         (c)   Public information emergency support function;
         (d)   Resource management emergency support function; and
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services section which includes:
         (a)   Military emergency support function;
         (b)   Law enforcement emergency support function;
         (c)   Firefighting emergency support function;
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function;
         (e)   Health and medical emergency support function;
         (f)   Search and rescue emergency support function; and
         (g)   Public works/engineering emergency support function.
      (5)   A consequent effects section which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function;
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function;
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function;
         (d)   Hazardous materials emergency support function;
         (e)   Radiological protection emergency support function; and
         (f)   Energy emergency support function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides,
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating
guides, and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management:
      (3)   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures, standard
operating guides, and checklists within the county Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.19  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
35.04, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency Management shall
be comprehensive and inclusive county-wide and effective in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
35.18 , and the exercise of any powers of the Principal Executive Officer of
the county and of the County Board of Commissioners under §§
35.35 through
35.41, shall be comprehensive and inclusive county-wide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (2)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.20  TEST OF THE COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
at any time with or without prior notification to persons other than the
Director.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.21  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the Board of
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be as follows:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
   (H)   The Board of Commissioners has the power to terminate the County
Emergency Management Director for cause only, if the Board determines that the
Director:
      (1)   Is incapable of fulfilling his or her duties;
      (2)   Has failed to properly perform his or her duties;
      (3)   Has violated any provisions of the county personnel policies; or
      (4)   Ceases to meet all qualifications for the position required by
federal or state law, regulations, or local ordinances.
   (I)   (1)   The Board shall consult with the County Emergency Management
Advisory Council and the Executive Director of IDHS to obtain their opinions
regarding the abilities and competence of the County Emergency Management
Director or a candidate for that position prior to the appointment or
termination of the Director.
      (2)   The opinion of the County Emergency Management Advisory Council and
the IDHS Executive Director’s opinion hereunder shall be advisory only.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
PRINCIPLE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, AND THE LIKE
§ 35.35  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This section shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor has declared a disaster emergency affecting all or part
of the county.
   (B)   The Principal Executive Officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-29 and §
35.36 hereof, is preparing to, or has declared a local disaster emergency
affecting all or part of the county.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or indispensable to such test.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.36  PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES; SPECIAL EMERGENCY
POWERS.
   (A)   Declaration of local disaster emergency.
      (1)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency
affecting the county, if feasible, the Principal Executive Officer of the
county shall seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability
of declaring a local disaster emergency.
      (2)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the Principal
Executive Officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner, must be met.
      (3)   (a)   The Principal Executive Officer of the county may, in the
event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county,
declare a local disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.
         (b)   This declaration shall:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   State the nature of the disaster;
            3.   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
            4.   State the area or areas threatened;
            5.   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
            6.   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration shall be:
         (a)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best
means available; and
         (b)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk, the County
Auditor, and the Clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
      (5)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of
the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
      (6)   Upon a declaration, the County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency, shall
be activated and implemented.
      (7)   Declaration of a local disaster emergency is not necessary if the
Governor has already proclaimed a state-wide or area-wide disaster emergency
that includes the county.
      (8)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, designation of a local travel
advisory is as follows:
         (a)   If the Principle Executive Officer of a political subdivision
issues a local travel advisory as part of an emergency declaration under I.C.
10-14-3-29, the Principle Executive Officer shall designate the travel advisory
as falling into one of the following categories.
            1.   Advisory. The lowest level of local travel advisory, means
that routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas because of a
hazardous situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid those areas;
            2.   Watch. Those conditions that are threatening to the safety of
the public. During a watch local travel advisory, only essential travel, such
as to and from work or in emergency situations, is recommended, and emergency
action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies,
and other organizations.
            3.   Warning.
               a.   The highest level of travel advisory, means that travel may
be restricted to emergency management workers only.
               b.   During a warning local travel advisory, individuals are
directed to:
                  i.   Refrain from all travel;
                  ii.   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
                  iii.   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services
forces in executing emergency operations plans: and
                  iv.   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly
identified officers. Further and more specific restrictions, including parking
restrictions, may be included in a “warning” local travel advisory.
         (b)   If the Emergency Management Agency Director or the Principle
Executive Officer of a political subdivision determines that conditions within
the political subdivision have created the need for travel advisory
restrictions without a local disaster emergency declaration under I.C. 10-14-3-
29, the Emergency Management Agency Director or the Principle Executive Officer
may issue an “advisory” or a “watch” level travel advisory.
         (c)   A “warning” level travel advisory may be issued only after a
local disaster emergency is declared under I.C. 10-14-3-29. (As added by Pub.
Law No. 40-2011, § 2, being I.C. 10-14-3-29.5.)
   (B)   Special emergency powers and duties.
      (1)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that
affects all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting addressed under §
35.37(A), the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall have, on an
interim basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and may take all
such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration that the County
Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
      (2)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled,
these interim powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall
revert to the Board.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.37  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETINGS; POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   (A)   Convening of special emergency meeting.
      (1)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special
meeting of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as
possible after the disaster emergency that affects the county has been
declared, either by the Governor or by the Principal Executive Officer of the
county, to perform their executive, legislative, and administrative functions
as the situation may demand.
      (2)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the
following conditions must be met for this meeting.
         (a)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of
the purpose of the meeting.
         (b)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners.
         (c)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business
at this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration or not
included in the notice of the meeting.
         (e)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting
that is called to deal with an emergency.
      (3)   In addition, such a meeting may:
         (a)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
         (b)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; or
         (c)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   At the meeting convened under division (A) above, the County Board
of Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and legislative
powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
      (2)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (B)(1) above, the
Board may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers:.
         (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a
local disaster emergency declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the
county, pursuant to §
35.36(A) to last more than seven days if necessary.
         (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local
disaster emergency.
         (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
            2.   Participating emergency services: and
            3.   Any other resources at the disposal of the Board of
Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes.
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces
which have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan to the aid of the county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon
as practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
         (e)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety, and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-17 and subject to its provisions, command
services, and/or requisition the use of:
            1.   Equipment;
            2.   Facilities;
            3.   Supplies; or
            4.   Other property.
         (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces
which have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan to the aid of the county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon
as practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
            1.   Routes;
            2.   Modes of transportation; and
            3.   Evacuation destinations.
         (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal times.
         (h)   Except in accordance with division (B)(2)(i) below, the County
Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or
procedures, which are mandated by statute.
         (i)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by
the Governor, the County Board of Commissioners may waive any procedures or
requirements of statute, or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
            1.   The performance of public works;
            2.   The entering into contracts;
            3.   The incurring of obligations;
            4.   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
            5.   The utilization of volunteer workers;
            6.   The rental of equipment;
            7.   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials, and
facilities; and
            8.   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
         (j)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to county:
            1.   Offices;
            2.   Departments; and
            3.   Agencies.
         (k)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and
appropriated, but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may,
within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category, be utilized
and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency duties and
functions.
         (l)   1.   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, the County Board of
Commissioners may make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations
as may be necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the
carrying out of the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   Such orders, rules, and regulations:
               a.   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules, or
regulations promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a
power delegated to it by the Governor;
               b.   Cannot be inconsistent with the County’s Emergency
Management Program or Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
               c.   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the
office of the County Clerk; or
               d.   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcement
authority in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-22.
         (m)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, request the state or the United States
or their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
      (3)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
section shall be:
         (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution; and
         (b)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.38  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE
COUNTY.
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and
   (B)   Comply with all orders, rules, and regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management
Director.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.39  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS;
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan:
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.40  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING DISASTER EMERGENCY, EMERGENCY, OR
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, the
county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services, and
rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to the
full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3-15 and all other applicable laws.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.41  COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY COMMANDEERED OR USED DURING DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided for in I.C. 32-
24.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.99     PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
35.39(A) shall be liable to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however,
to the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 03-18-13, passed 3-18-2013)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   TRASH
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  TRASH
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Administration
   
50.03   Owner’s responsibilities
   
50.04   Notice by county to landowner
   
50.05   Removal by county
   
50.06   Effective date
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRASH. Refuse, garbage, offal, paper waste, trash, litter, and miscellaneous
discarded materials.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 50.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The office of the Building Inspector shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   This section and the procedures hereunder shall be pursuant to I.C.
36-1-6-2.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 50.03  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any occupant of real property
within the county to permit trash to accumulate upon such property.
   (B)   All owners of real property within the county shall remove all trash
left or placed upon their property.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04  NOTICE BY COUNTY TO LANDOWNER.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Building Inspector of the county that trash
exists on property within the county, the Building Inspector shall issue a
written notice to the landowner and all persons holding a substantial interest
in the property, such as mortgagees or contract sellers and buyers, that the
trash must be removed within 30 days of the mailing of the notice, which notice
shall be sent to all persons having a substantial interest in the property,
including, the landowner, at his, her, or their last known addresses by U.S.
first class mail, or, in the alternative, the Building Inspector may have the
Sheriff’s Department deliver the notices personally, and such notice shall be
deemed given on the date of mailing if mailed, or on the date of personal
delivery if served by the Sheriff’s Department. Certified mailing of the notice
is not required, but may be done in addition to the first class mailing, at the
option of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The persons having a substantial interest in the property, including
the landowner, may appeal the order to remove the trash by delivering to the
office of the Building Inspector written notice of contest within 30 days of
the mailing of the notice. “Continuous enforcement orders” (as defined in I.C.
36-7-9-2) can be enforced and liens may be assessed without the need for
additional notice.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 50.05  REMOVAL BY COUNTY.
   (A)   If the persons having a substantial interest in the property,
including the landowner, fails to remove the trash or fails to serve a notice
of contest within the time prescribed in the notice and set forth in §
50.04, the county may remove the trash, as permitted by I.C. 36-1-6-2, by
having employees of the county enter upon the property and remove trash with
county equipment, or by contracting with others to remove the trash.
   (B)   (1)   After removal of the trash by the county as provided in division
(A) above, the Building Inspector shall then issue a bill to the persons having
a substantial interest in the property, including the landowner, for the costs
incurred by the county in such removal. Such costs shall include an
administrative charge of $50 to compensate the county for the administrative
costs incurred in issuing the bill, plus the fees of the contractor if a
contractor is used.
      (2)   If county employees and equipment are used, the Building Inspector
shall also include in the billing charges the time of the county employees and
the use of the equipment of the county, in such amounts as the Board of
Commissioners establish from time to time by Board of Commissioners action as
the current rate for the use of such equipment and the use of such county
employees for such services.
      (3)   The billing shall be sent to all persons having a substantial
interest in the property, including the landowner, in the same manner as
provided in §
50.04 for the issuing of the initial notice, and the persons having a
substantial interest in the property, including the landowner, shall be given a
period of 15 days from the date of the mailing of the notice if the notice is
mailed, or from the date of personal delivery if the notice is personally
delivered, to make payment of the charges; provided, however, that if the
landowner contests the propriety of the charges, the landowner may, within such
15-day period of time, deliver written notice to the office of the Building
Inspector of the contest of the charges.
   (C)   The contest or appeal by any person having a substantial interest in
the property of either the “notice of removal” under §
50.04 or the “notice of charges” under division (B) above shall be heard and
determined by the Board of Commissioners at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after receiving the notice of contest, at which time any person having
a substantial interest in the property may appear and be heard.
   (D)   If a person having a substantial interest in the property, including
the owner of the real property, fails to pay a bill issued under this chapter
within the time specified, the Building Inspector shall certify the amount of
the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification, to the County Auditor for collection as provided for by I.C. 36-
7-10.1-4 to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes are
collected. The minimum charge for certification, including administrative costs
and removal of trash is $500 and the total cost for removal may not exceed the
limits specified in I.C. 36-1-6-2.
   (E)   Amounts collected for the removal of trash as provided by this chapter
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the county. Any money received for
the value of any scrap or recyclables shall be used to offset the cost of
removal and the excess shall be deposited in the General Fund of the county.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 50.06  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after its stated passage.
(Ord. 10-07-13, passed 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Private sewage disposal system
   
51.02   General specifications
   
51.03   Permits and powers for inspection
   
51.04   Registering installers
   
51.05   Correction notice
   
51.06   Vacation of premises
   
51.07   Enforcement
   
51.08   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The owner, or agent of the owner, prior to receiving a permit to
install a residential sewage disposal system must submit:
      (1)   Satisfactory soils report from a licensed soil scientist showing at
least two locations on the property for the absorption field; and
      (2)   Written plans of the proposed sewage disposal system, which plans
must be received and approved by the County Sanitarian before any construction
begins.
   (B)   At any time a community sanitary sewage system becomes available, the
on-site sewage disposal system must be properly abandoned and direct connection
made to the community system, unless temporary continued use is provided by
state law.
   (C)   (1)   No privies will be allowed within a sewer district.
      (2)   Any existing privy in a sewer district must be properly abandoned.
      (3)   Any privy outside a sewer district shall be maintained in a clean
condition.
   (D)   Minimum lot size for a sewage disposal system will be 50,000 square
feet (one and one-eighth acres); this includes subdivisions. Each person must
have 50,000 square feet even if cluster systems are used. Lots may be downsized
if a community sanitary sewage system is approved by the State Board of Health,
installed, and maintained.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.02  GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A four-inch clean-out port with secure gas-tight lid must be installed
immediately outside residence at the beginning of the outside sewer line. It
must be easily accessible.
   (B)   All sewer lines from residence to septic tank and from septic tank to
distribution boxes must be at least four inches Schedule 40 PVC.
   (C)   A 1,000-gallon septic tank is the minimum size tank allowed and must
be approved by the State Board of Health. No cast in place septic tanks will be
allowed.
   (D)   All pipe connections must be cemented.
   (E)   Absorption lines must be uniformly level throughout its length.
   (F)   Stone must be eight inches beneath tile and four inches above tile.
Stone must be uniform and level across width of absorption trench.
   (G)   When absorption trenches are covered, final grade must be mounded over
(convex) width of trench as to shed surface water.
   (H)   Distribution boxes must be filled with water to indicate levelness.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.03  PERMITS AND POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private sewage
disposal system or privy, or where any alteration, repair, or addition of
existing private sewage disposal system is planned, the owner or agent of the
owner shall first obtain:
      (1)   Satisfactory soils report from a licensed soil scientist showing at
least two locations on the property for the absorption field; and
      (2)   A written permit signed by the County Sanitarian. The application
for such permit shall be made on a form provided by the county, which
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, and other
information as is deemed necessary by the County Sanitarian; which permit shall
be good for a period of 12 months from the date of issuance. A permit and
inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the County Health Fund at the time the
application is filed.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
County Sanitarian. He or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the County Sanitarian when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice by the County
Sanitarian.
   (C)   The County Sanitarian or his or her agent bearing proper credentials
and identifications shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the
proper time for purposes of inspections, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   If at any time a sewage district is formed within the county, it will,
by virtue of its ordinance, be the enforcing entity of that district. The
district will be responsible for supervising its ordinance in all aspects. The
County Health Department will at any time assist the districts when required by
same.
   (E)   (1)   An inspection shall be conducted by the County Health
Department, within two weeks of request, of an existing sewage disposal system.
The request must be in writing and from the homeowner or his or her agent. The
system must be brought up to current standards outlined in this chapter if:
         (a)   There is no permit on file at the County Health Department;
         (b)   There is any sink, washer, or effluent drain water discharging
anywhere to the surface of the ground;
         (c)   System failure has occurred; or
         (d)   Any violation is reported and/or observed by the Health
Department.
      (2)   A homeowner shall be required to obtain a new permit and a test by
a soil scientist on any failed system and on all upgrades. A written report
will be sent to the person making the request. A fee of $50 must be received by
the Health Department before written report is sent.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.04  REGISTERING INSTALLERS.
   (A)   Any person who intends to install or repair a sewage disposal system,
for hire, in the county must be registered at the County Health Department
annually. In order to become registered, the person or person’s agent must
attend annual training conducted by the County Health Department, Soil
Conservation Service, and/or State Board of Health, or show proof or similar
training from another county within the state pertaining to residential on-site
sewage disposal systems. At the discretion of the Sanitarian, a test may be
issued to contractors to measure knowledge retention. A $25 registration fee
shall then be paid annually by the installer.
   (B)   Any person may install his or her own sewage disposal system without
being registered. They are responsible for all applicable rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.05  CORRECTION NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be served
by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Sanitarian, with a written
order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit for
satisfactory correction thereof.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.06  VACATION OF PREMISES.
   Any person found in violation after time limit expires, must vacate property
in violation, immediately.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the County Prosecutor, the County
Attorney, or the County Board of Health Attorney after the time limit expires
and abatement has not been achieved.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force an effect from after its passage,
approval, recording, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense by a fine
of not more than $1,000; and for the third and each subsequent offense by a
fine of not more than $1,000, to which may be added imprisonment for any
determinate period, not exceeding 90 days, and each day after the expiration of
the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and completing improvements to
abate such conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health or by the duly
appointed Sanitarian of the county, shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense.
(Ord. 04-15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARATION
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Temporary speed limits in construction zones
   
70.02   Weight limits
   
70.03   Off-road vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  TEMPORARY SPEED LIMITS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   During a period of construction on any county road, the temporary
speed on that roadway in the work zone and within the vicinity of either end of
said work zone shall be reduced by 10 mph from the established maximum speed
for that portion of the roadway.
   (B)   This temporary speed limit reduction will be applicable at all times
during the construction, not just when workers are present, because the safety
of the traveling public requires enforcement of the reduced speed limit at all
times during the construction period.
   (C)   The County Highway Department is authorized to post signs showing the
temporary maximum speed due to the construction area.
   (D)   The funds collected as judgments for the infraction of violating a
speed limit set under I.C. 9-21-5-11 shall be transferred to the State
Department of Transportation to pay the costs of hiring off- duty police
officers to perform the duties described in I.C. 8-23-2-15(b).
(Ord. 05-07-2012-2, passed 5-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Commercial trucks weighing over eight tons (16,000 pounds) not making
a local delivery, or not en route to or from a local destination are prohibited
from traveling on county roads within the county.
   (B)   The County Highway Department is authorized to post all county roads
with an eight-ton weight limit for commercial vehicles.
   (C)   Registered farm vehicles are not considered commercial vehicles, and
the driver or owner of a commercial vehicle traveling the most direct route to
his, her, or their local residence or local place of business are not subject
to this section.
   (D)   A local delivery by a commercial vehicle over eight tons shall be
accomplished by traveling on state highways to the closest point to the local
destination accessible by state highways, thus making the route on county roads
the shortest and most direct route to the local destination.
   (E)   A law enforcement officer may use a portable scale, require the
overweight vehicle and driver to accompany the officer to a certified scale, or
use any other reasonable means to determine the total or gross weight of the
vehicle.
   (F)   (1)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class C
infraction.
      (2)   The burden of proof required of the county shall be preponderance
of the evidence.
   (G)   This section repeals any section in conflict herewith and shall be in
full force and effect from and after its passage as required by law.
(Ord. 05-07-2012-1, passed 5-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   This division (A) is to be construed in conjunction with I.C.
14-16-1, and is in no way meant to limit or otherwise construe those statutes.
      (2)   Off-road vehicles may be operated on or near county roads between
sunrise and sunset.
      (3)   The maximum speed an off-road vehicle may be operated on or near
county roads 20 mph.
      (4)   An off-road vehicle may be operated on or near county roads by an
owner of said off-road vehicle within three miles of the owner’s residence.
   (B)   The state statutes found at I.C. 14-16-1 in regards to off-road
vehicle operation, as well as those found in the State Motor Vehicle Code,
being I.C. Title 9 regarding proof of financial responsibility, shall apply to
any and all off-road vehicles operated on county roads.
(Ord. 99-05-17, passed 5-17-1999; Ord. 09-06-05, passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
70.01 shall be an infraction and the penalty, in addition to costs, must be as
follows:
      (1)   If the person has not previously committed the infraction of
violating a speed limit set under I.C. 9-21-5-11, a judgment of at least $300;
      (2)   If the person has committed one infraction of violating a speed
limit set under I.C. 9-21-5-11 in the previous three years, a judgment of at
least $500; and
      (3)   If the person has committed two or more infractions of violating a
speed limit set under I.C. 9-21-5-11 in the previous three years, a judgment of
$1,000.
   (C)   (1)   The maximum penalty for each violation under §
70.02 shall not exceed $500, plus court costs and is to be determined by the
court.
      (2)   A person receiving a citation under this §
70.02 may avoid a court appearance by paying to the Clerk of Court $100 for
every 1,000 pounds over the limit, based on the gross weight of the vehicle and
court costs as set by state statute.
(Ord. 05-07-2012-1, passed 5-7-2012; Ord. 05-07-2012-2, passed 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 71:  LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARATION
Section
   
71.01   Title
   
71.02   Procedure
   
71.03   Exemptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Local Disaster Emergency Declaration
Ordinance of Switzerland County, Indiana” and shall apply to all roads,
highways, or rights-of-way maintained by the County Highway Department
(“roads”), The mandatory provisions of the chapter and of any local disaster
emergency issued pursuant to the chapter, including the prohibitions on travel
and the penalties for violating those prohibitions, shall not apply to streets
maintained by a city or town within the county, nor to a state highway
maintained by the State Department of Transportation, nor to a federal
interstate highway situated within the county.
(Ord. 09-19-11, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 71.02  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board, after consultation with the County Emergency Management
Advisory Council, the County Sheriff, the County Emergency Management/ Homeland
Security Director, and County Highway Superintendent, if available, or the
respective representative designated by each as the person to consult in his or
her absence for the purpose of recommending a declaration of local disaster
emergency, may declare a local disaster emergency, which may also contain a
“warning level” travel advisory by executive order when, in the Board’s
judgment, by majority rule, such order would be appropriate under I.C. 10-14-3-
29 and in the best interest of the public safety and welfare of the residents
of the county.
   (B)   If only one member of the Board is available to sign the declaration
of local disaster emergency, he or she can declare a local disaster emergency
if he or she has obtained and documented the verbal or written concurrence of
at least one other Board member.
(Ord. 09-19-11, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 71.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   Vehicles which shall be exempt from the travel and parking restrictions
imposed in a travel advisory pursuant to this chapter shall include medical
assistance, law enforcement, fire department, emergency management, public
utility, and fuel hauling vehicles, and employees of any of the above exempt
services, if engaged in performing their respective duties. Any other vehicles
violating this chapter or any of the parking restrictions contained in local
declaration of disaster emergency or a “warning” travel advisory are subject to
removal by towing or other means at the expense of the owner of the vehicle,
when such towing and/or removal is deemed necessary by a duly authorized
representative of any one or more of the following: the County Highway
Department; the County Sheriff’s Department; a State Conservation Officer; or
the State Police.
(Ord. 09-19-11, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any persons violating any provisions of this chapter or the vehicle use or
parking restrictions contained in a local declaration of disaster emergency or
a “warning” travel advisory shall be guilty of the commission of an infraction,
and may be fined any sum not to exceed $100, and such shall be enforceable in
any court of law, duly authorized by state law, and in addition to such fine,
the court shall be authorized to direct the violator to repay the county any
monetary losses or expenses incurred in the incident.
(Ord. 09-19-11, passed 9-19-2011)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The following are maximum speed limits on the following roads in
the county.
County Road; Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road; Location                    Speed Limit Ord. No.   Date Passed
Aaron Road                               45 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Adkinson Hill                            25 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Allensville Road                         30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Antioch                                  40 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Ball Diamond                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Bennington Pike                          45 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Bear Creek                               35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Bear Ranch                               45 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Bennett Road                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Big Doe Run                              40 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Boone Robinson                           35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Bradford                                 35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Braytown                                 35 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Bryants Creek                            30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Caledonia Road                           40 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Cogley Cole                              35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Concord Road                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Culbertson Road                          35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Detour Road                              35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Drakes Ridge                             35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Dry Ford Road                            30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
E. Scudder Road                          25 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Elam Road                                35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Fishing Worm                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Goose Creek (Upper/Lower)                30 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Guilion Road                             35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
H. Tapp Road                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Hominy Ridge                             35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Indian Trail                             30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Jackson Road                             35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Kelly Road                               30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Knigga Road                              35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Knox Ford Road                           25 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Lake Geneva Road                         40 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Little Doe Run                           35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Log Lick                                 35 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Lost Fork Road                           25 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Markland Pike                            45 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
McCrearys Ridge                          40 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Mennets Hollow                           30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
North Branch                             35 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Oatman Hill                              25 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Parks Ridge                              40 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Paul Chase Road                          30 mph      00-05-16   5-16-2000
Patton Hollow                            35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Pendleton Run                            35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Pleasant Grove                           40 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Popcorn Ridge                            30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Quercus Grove                            30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Red Hog Pike                             45 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Sand Run                                 30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Silver Hill                              30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Scotts Ridge                             40 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Searcy Ridge                             40 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Soapville Road                           35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Spring Branch                            35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Stowtown Road                            35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Tapps Ridge                              35 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Turtle Creek                             35 mph      10-20-03   10-6-2003
Turtle Creek/Little Hominy; North        40 mph      00-05-16   5-16-2000
Turtle Creek Road; between the north and 30 mph      00-05-16   5-16-2000
south end of Little Hominy
Van Osdol                                30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Vernon Ridge                             35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Vineyard                                 35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Wade Hill Road                           30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Wolf Road                                30 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
Works Road                               35 mph      11-05-12-1 11-5-2012
 
      (2)   The maximum speed limit on all county roads within the Bennington
town limits is 25 mph.
   (B)   Violation of Ord. 11-05-12-1 shall be a Class C infraction with the
monetary penalty, in addition to costs, set by the court.
   (C)   The County Highway Department shall post speed limit sings as herein
established on the appropriate roadways.
(Ord. 11-05-12-1, passed 11-5-2012)
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Maximum weight limits are hereby established for through trucks
and other commercial vehicles to be operated on certain county highways. It
shall be unlawful to operate any truck or other commercial vehicle with a gross
weight in excess of 16,000 pounds on Aaron Road or Pleasant Grove Road between
State Road 129 and State Road 250 in the county.
      (2)   THROUGH TRUCKS and OTHER COMMERCIAL VEHICLES shall mean trucks and
other commercial vehicles not in the process of making pick-ups or deliveries
along the posted road.
      (3)   Weight limit signs giving notice of this division (A) shall be
posted at appropriate locations on the affected county roads.
      (4)   A person who violates this division (A) shall be fined an amount
not to exceed $500 for each offense.
      (5)   This divisions (A) shall go into effect upon passage by the County
Board of Commissioners and publication as required by law.
   (B)   There is hereby set a weight limitation for commercial carriers of
eight tons on the county roads known as Tapps Ridge Road; any violation of this
division (B) is punishable in the following amount for each violation.
 
0 to 2,000 pounds overweight     $0.02 per pound
2,001 to 3,000 pounds overweight $0.04 per pound
3,001 to 4,000 pounds overweight $0.06 per pound
4,001 to 5,000 pounds overweight $0.06 per pound
5,000 and over                   $0.10 per pound
 
(Ord. 87, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 00-08-07, passed 8-7-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS, ROADS, AND HIGHWAYS
      
93.   FIRE; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   RIVERBOATS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Restraint and confinement
   
90.03   Regulation of dangerous and vicious dogs
   
90.04   Killing dog approaching in a menacing fashion
   
90.05   Offender to pay expenses; determination of dangerous or vicious status;
notice of violation
   
90.06   Notice of violation
   
90.07   Effective date and grandfather provisions
Animal Care
   
90.20   Rabies vaccination requirements
   
90.21   Humane care and treatment required
   
90.22   Giving away live animals
   
90.23   Abusing, abandoning animals
   
90.24   Striking domestic animal with motor vehicle
   
90.25   Animals in vehicles
   
90.26   Exposing poisonous substance
   
90.27   Notice of ordinance violation
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.40   Animal Control Officer and staff
   
90.41   Impoundment and violation notice
   
90.42   Sterilization
   
90.43   Enforcement of civil and criminal provisions
   
90.44   Interference with Animal Control officer prohibited
   
90.45   Fees or money collected
   
90.46   Animal Shelter control
   
90.47   Adoption application for Animal Shelter animals
   
90.48   Fees for surrendering an animal
   
90.49   Euthanizing an animal
   
90.50   Animal quarantine fees
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession of an animal by the
owner without vesting possession of the animal in any other person. The failure
to make adequate provision for food, water, and shelter shall be prima facie
evidence of ABANDONMENT.
   AGENT. Any person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act on the
owner’s behalf.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, contracted, or appointed by
the Board of Commissioners of Switzerland County for the purpose of aiding in
the enforcement of these articles relating to the licensing of animals, control
of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the county for the purpose of
impounding or housing dogs and cats under the authority of this chapter or
state law for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption, or euthanasia.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not on the owner’s property and is not under
control of the owner or another person by leash, cord, fence, chain, or other
device of physical restraint, or an electronic “invisible” fence or control of
any person who has the ability to control the animal by voice command. The term
AT LARGE does not include animals under the reasonable control of some person
or when engaged in lawful hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian, within
the owner’s vehicle or within the boundary of the properly of the owner.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet store, DVM, boarding facility, or
grooming facility.
   CONFINEMENT. Limited or restricted within the bounds of the real property of
the animal’s owner or agent.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, without provocation, and subject to the exclusion
set forth below, has chased or approached in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person while that dog is off the premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer, or
some other responsible person, or not physically restrained or confined in a
locked pen which has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure which
has a top. DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has chased or
approached in either a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack, or
has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person while the police dog is
being used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
their official duties.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   An animal that is not wild.
      (2)   The term is limited to:
         (a)   Cattle, calves, horses, mules, swine, sheep, goats, dogs,
ferrets, cats, poultry, ostriches, rhea, emus, or other birds;
         (b)   An animal of the bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, porcine,
canine, feline, avian, camelid, cervidae, or bison species; or
         (c)   An aquatic animal that maybe the subject of aquaculture.
      (3)   As used in this chapter, the relationship of duties and the
responsibilities of the County Animal Control Officer and the County Animal
Control Board are governed by the statutory definition of domestic animal.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm blooded mammal that has been
bitten or come in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected
to have been infected with rabies.
   FRESH PURSUIT. The immediate following of an animal that is found to be at
large and not on the owner’s property.
   GUARD DOG. Any dog that will detect and warn its handler that an intruder is
present in/or near an area that is being secured.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permits any animal habitually to
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard, or
place of business or any premises on which such person reside or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days. For the purpose of this chapter, this definition is referring
only to those animals falling under the responsibilities and duties of the
County Animal Control Department, and is not intended to include bird feeders
or other wildlife or livestock accommodations regulated by other state and
county agencies.
   KEEPERS. Veterinarians and operators of kennels, pet shops, or boarding
kennels temporarily keeping animals owned by or held for sale to other person.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portion thereof on which more than four dogs, cats,
or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or on
which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for in
return for remuneration or kept for the purpose of sale.
   KENNEL OPERATOR. A kennel operator is a person who owns and/or operates a
kennel.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. Any authority deemed appropriate by the Board of
Commissioners of Switzerland County.
   MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. Any animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, or corporation.
   PET or COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility;
an animal of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the
habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter.
   POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained, and is used to assist one or more
law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any dog or dogs that, unprovoked, unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of
life or property.
      (2)   The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, any dog that, unprovoked:
         (a)   Is repeatedly found at large;
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
         (c)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
         (d)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances
causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the dog is kept or harbored; or
         (e)   Attacks other animals.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead of a responsible person,
under the voice control of a responsible person, or within the real property
limits of its owner, within a vehicle and hunting dogs while actively engaged
in the purpose for which said dogs have been trained.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more animals at large together, which by repeated
or continual presence constitutes a physical danger to a neighborhood,
livestock, or personal or real property. RUNNING IN PACK shall not include
animals under the reasonable control of some person or when engaged in lawful
hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to the exclusions set
forth below meets any of the following:
         (a)   It has killed or caused serious injury to any person; or
         (b)   It has caused injury or has killed another animal.
      (2)   A VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
         (a)   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person or that has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
         (b)   A dog that has killed or caused injury to any person while a
person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other criminal
offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
   WILD DOG. Any living member of the animal kingdom, including those dogs born
or raised in captivity, except the following types of dogs: domestic dogs,
excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes, or jackals.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog not teased, tormented, or abused by a person, or
that the dog was not coming to the aid or the defense of a person who was not
engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who was not using the dog as a
means of carrying out such activity.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.02  RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animal(s) to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every animal in heat shall be confined in a house, building, or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female cannot come into contact with a
male of the same species except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  REGULATION OF DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall fail
to do either of the following, except when the dog is lawfully engaged in
hunting or training for the purpose of hunting, accompanied by the owner,
keeper, harborer, or a handier:
      (1)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen which has a top, and
either has a bottom secured to the sides or the sides are embedded in the
ground no less that one foot, or such other locked enclosure meeting the same
criteria, except that a dangerous dog, but not a vicious dog, may, in the
alternative, be kept in a locked, fenced yard or be tied with a leash or tether
so that the dog is adequately restrained;
      (2)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep it on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six
feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following:
         (a)   Keep that dog in a locked pen which has a top, a locked fenced
yard, or other locked enclosure which has a top;
         (b)   By a person who is responsible and at least 18 years of age; or
securely attach, tie, or affix the leash or tether to the ground or a
stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately restrained and
station such a person in close enough proximity to the dog so as to prevent it
from causing injury to any person; or
         (c)   Muzzle the dog.
      (3)   When the dog is a vicious dog, the owner, keeper, or harborer,
shall keep the dog confined as set forth in division (A)(1) above, except when
said dog is on a leash or tether as described in division (A)(2) above, then
said owner, keeper, or harborer shall additionally keep said dog muzzled at all
times, whether on or off the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer.
   (B)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious dog shall fail to obtain
liability insurance with an insurer authorised to write liability insurance in
this state providing coverage in each occurrence; subject to a limit, exclusive
of interest and costs, of not less than $100,00 because of damage or bodily
injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the Animal Control Officer shall notify an owner,
keeper, or harborer of a dog that such dog has been designated as dangerous or
vicious, the owner, keeper, or harborer shall have  ten days in which to file a
written notice of appeal of such designation with the County Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Thereafter, the Board of Commissioners shall conduct a hearing on
the appeal and shall determine whether the designation dangerous or vicious dog
shall remain or be lifted. Written notice of the decision of the Board of
Commissioners shall be provided to the owner, keeper, or harborer of such dog
and the Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   From the time the designation is made by the Animal Control
Officer, the provisions of this chapter in regard to dangerous and vicious dogs
shall be in full force and effect, and each owner, keeper, or harborer, and the
Animal Control Officer, shall ensure that the provisions with regard to
dangerous and vicious dogs are fully met during such time period.
      (4)   Any violation of this chapter committed prior to the hearing shall
be admissible and such hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Any person who is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious dog and
who transfers the ownership, care, or custody of said vicious dog shall notify
the Animal Control Officer of such transfer within 48 hours of the occurrence
thereof.
   (E)   The owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall
post a sign at the normal main entrance to his or her premises where it will be
readily visible by anyone, and especially children, coming to his, her, or
their property, which sign shall be no less than 16 inches by 16 inches in
size; shall have black letters on a yellow background; the letters shall be no
less than two inches high and one- half-inch in thickness; and which sign shall
say “BEWARE VICIOUS DOG” or “BEWARE DANGEROUS DOG”.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  KILLING DOG APPROACHING IN A MENACING FASHION.
   (A)   A dog that is chasing or approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack, that attempts to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills
or injures a person, or a dog that chases, injures, or kills livestock,
poultry, other domestic animals or any other animal that is the property of
another person, can be killed at the time of that chasing, approaching,
attempt, killing, or injury.
   (B)   If, in attempting to kill such a dog, a person wounds it, he or she is
not liable to prosecution under the penal laws that punish cruelty to animals.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.05  OFFENDER TO PAY EXPENSES; DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
STATUS; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   In the event a violation of §§
90.02 through
90.04 involves a vicious dog, whether such determination has been previously
made or not, the court may order the offender to obtain liability insurance
pursuant to §
90.03(B); and the court, in addition to any other penalty, may also order that
the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian or the Animal
Control Officer, and that the offender shall pay all expenses, including
shelter, food, veterinary, destruction expenses necessitated by the seizure of
any dog for the protection of the public or the violation of §§
90.02 through
90.04.
   (B)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall be authorized and directed to
issue notice of an ordinance violation to the appropriate owners, keepers, or
harborers who violate §§
90.02 through
90.04.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall further preliminarily designate
such dogs as “dangerous dogs” or “vicious dogs” as he or she may deem necessary
as a result of his or her own personal knowledge, or as a result of a written,
signed complaint made by any member of the public, or based on such other
information provided to or obtained by the Animal Control Officer which he or
she deems to be sufficient to cause such a determination to be made, and to
give notice of such determination to the owner, keeper, or harborer of such
dangerous or vicious dogs, and to the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer further shall file with the appropriate
jurisdiction charges under the provisions of §§
90.02 through
90.04 as are necessary to enforce the penalties set forth in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Animal Control Officer may issue to any person in violation of this
chapter a notice of ordinance violation. The penalty established in §
90.99 may, at the discretion of the animal owner, be paid to the authorized
agency within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the
event that such payment is not made within the period prescribed, proceedings
shall be filed in the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.07  EFFECTIVE DATE AND GRANDFATHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication as required by law.
   (B)   This chapter amends and replaces Ord. 2010- 03-15-10 and Ord. 08-01-
11, but does not alter the penalty for any ordinance violation already
commenced or that has already occurred under those prior ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
ANIMAL CARE
§ 90.20  RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful to own or harbor any dog or cat of the age of three months or
older without a valid rabies vaccination. Exception to this would be feral cats
that cannot be caught.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  HUMANE CARE AND TREATMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her domestic animal(s) with
sufficient wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities,
proper air, shelter space and protection from the weather, veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   Domestic animals shall be kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy
manner and not confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in their own
excrement.
   (C)   Domestic animals shall have a proper and adequate structure; provided,
that will allow that animal to stand, sit, or lie down without restriction.
   (D)   If chained or tied outside, an owner shall have water available at all
times to the animal, and a chain, leash, or lead, not less that ten feet;
however, this chain, leash, or lead cannot allow the animal to enter onto or
into another person's property or onto or into the public right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall fail to provide care to domestic animals as necessary
to prevent suffering if diseased or injured, and, if diseased, shall be
segregated from other animals so as to prevent the transmittal of disease to
other animals.
   (F)   No domestic animal shall be beaten, cruelly ill-treated, abused, nor
be placed in combat with another animal or human.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  GIVING AWAY LIVE ANIMALS.
   No person shall give away any live domestic animal as a prize for, or as an
inducement to enter, any contest, game, or other competition; as an inducement
to enter a place of amusement; or as an incentive to enter into any business
agreement in which the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  ABUSING, ABANDONING ANIMAL.
   (A)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse a domestic animal.
   (B)   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon such animal.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  STRIKING DOMESTIC ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner. In the
event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at once
report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or the local or County Police
Department.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.25  ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions within
that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal. No animal shall be
transported in any open vehicle unless confined in an appropriate manner
intended to prevent the animal from jumping from the vehicle or being thrown
from the vehicle in the event of an accident or rapid stop or other use of the
vehicle which could cause injury to the animal or any humans.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  EXPOSING POISONOUS SUBSTANCE.
   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  NOTICE OF ORDINANCE VIOLATION.
   The Animal Control Officer may issue to any person in violation of this
subchapter a notice of ordinance violation. The penalty established in §
90.99, may, at the discretion of the owner of the animal, be paid to the
authorized agency within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty.
In the event that such payment is not made within the period prescribed,
proceedings shall be filed in the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.40  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND STAFF.
   (A)   All duties and obligations set forth in the state statutes shall be
performed by the Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control Officer and staff
shall be sworn to uphold, carry out, and supervise the enforcement of this
chapter within the county, unless otherwise provided. The Animal Control
Officer and staff shall be vested with all the powers ordinary and necessary
under the law to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These duties and powers shall specifically include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   To educate the public concerning humane ethics, consequences of pet
overpopulation, and their responsibilities as pet owners;
      (2)   Make a monthly report to the Board of Commissioners regarding the
Animal Control Program in the county;
      (3)   An Animal Control Officer shall have authority to:
         (a)   Impound any cat or dog found running at large not under
reasonable control;
         (b)   Impound any dog that has bitten a person or another animal;
         (c)   Impound any dangerous animal;
         (d)   Humanely destroy any domestic or wild animal when such action is
needed to protect persons or property or to prevent suffering by the animal;
         (e)   Impound any animal showing symptoms of rabies or which has
bitten or been bitten by another animal showing symptoms of rabies;
         (f)   Impound any cat or dog that does not display a current rabies
vaccination tag; and
         (g)   Impound any domestic animal found showing signs of violation of
§
90.21.
      (4)   Have the power to issue official warning or a notice of an
ordinance violation of this chapter;
      (5)   Have the power to enter private real property in fresh pursuit of
an animal to enforce this chapter; and
      (6)   In performing any of these said duties, the Animal Control Officer
and staff shall, however, be specifically prohibited from: entering a dwelling
unit or enclosed structure without the dwelling unit owner’s permission or
unless accompanied by a uniformed law enforcement officer with a warrant
authorizing the entry; except when apprehending and impounding an animal as
described in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above; carrying firearms; or making
arrests of human beings.
   (C)   An animal that has bitten a person or attacked and caused serious
injury or death to another animal shall be impounded, confined or quarantined
at the County Animal Shelter for not less than ten days provided the animal
shelter has appropriate space to safely and humanely confine the animal.
   (D)   Confinement or quarantine of an animal at the County Animal Shelter
shall be pursuant to this chapter and I.C. 15-17-6-11 and at the cost of the
owner.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014; Ord. 04-04-2016, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 90.41  IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Stray, abandoned and nuisance dogs, cats and animals showing signs
that the animal lacks humane care may be taken by the Animal Control Officer
and impounded in the County Animal Shelter and there confined in a humane
manner. In lieu of impoundment, the Animal Control Officer may issue to the
known owner of such dog or cat a notice of an ordinance violation.
   (B)   If, by means of a license tag or other means, the owner of an
impounded animal can be identified, the Animal Control Officer shall
immediately, upon impoundment, notify the owner by any reasonable means.
   (C)   (1)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay the daily fee
as periodically established by the Board of Commissioners for each day the
animal has been impounded and agree to have the animal spayed or neutered
within 180 days, if the animal has not previously been spayed or neutered. 
Subsequent impounds occurring within 12 months are charged double.
   (D)   (1)   Any animal not taken from possession of the owner and not
reclaimed by its owner within seven working days shall become the property of
the Shelter and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely
euthanized. Once an animal is available for adoption, the former owner can
still reclaim the animal, but adoption or reclaiming the animal is based on
first in time having the preference. An animal captured due to biting a person
shall be confined for 14 days.
      (2)   Any person adopting an animal from the Shelter shall pay a fee as
periodically established by the Board of Commissioners. The current fee
schedule is attached as Exhibit A and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein. (See §
90.48(B).)
   (E)   Any animal that is abandoned or impounded under this chapter because
the owner has been incarcerated must be reclaimed by the owner or the owner’s
representative within ten days or the animal shall become the property of the
shelter and available for adoption. If the owner is incarcerated, then an
Animal Control Officer shall provide ten days written notice to the owner that
the animal will become property of the shelter if the animal is not reclaimed
within ten days. The time to reclaim the animal begins to run when written
notice is mailed to the owner at the place he or she is incarcerated.
   (F)   No animal shall be sold by the Animal Control Officer or by any other
personnel operating the Shelter to anyone for research nor to anyone who
resells said animals for research.
   (G)   When, based on the judgment of the Animal Control Officer, and/or upon
advice from a licensed veterinarian, it is deemed that an animal should be
destroyed for humane, health, or safety reasons, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to see that such animal is destroyed and such animal
shall not be permitted to be redeemed by any person.
   (H)   The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter
shall be entitled to resume possession of such animal upon the payment of the
impounding fees, proof of rabies vaccination, agreement to have the animal
spayed or neutered and any and all other conditions set forth herein, unless
the animal has been previously adopted, euthanized, or it has been determined
under division (G) above the animal should be destroyed.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014; Ord. 05-15-2017, passed 5-15-2017) 
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42  STERILIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal adopted from the Animal Shelter must be spayed or
neutered by a veterinarian. The cost is part of the adoption fee. If the animal
is an adult, such operation shall be performed within one month of adoption.
      (2)   If the animal is young, it shall be spayed or neutered as follows:
         (a)   Female dog: six months unless otherwise advised by a
veterinarian;
         (b)   Female cat: six month unless otherwise advised by a
veterinarian;
         (c)   Male dog: six months unless otherwise advised by a veterinarian;
and
         (d)   Male cat: six months unless otherwise advised by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any animal not so neutered or spayed may be reclaimed by the Animal
Control Officer without refund to the adopter.
   (C)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer may issue to any person in violation
of this section a notice of an ordinance violation. The penalty established in
§
90.99 may, at the discretion of the owner, be paid to the authorized agency
within 72 hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty.
      (2)   In the event that such payment is not made within the period
prescribed, proceedings shall be filed in the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43  ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those persons or
agencies designated by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.44  INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with the Animal Control
Officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45  FEES OR MONEY COLLECTED.
   All fees or monies collected shall be paid to the designated personnel of
the Animal Shelter. Money so paid shall be transmitted to the County Auditor
and donations collected shall be earmarked for use in operating the Animal
Shelter.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46  ANIMAL SHELTER CONTROL.
   The physical facility known as the County Animal Shelter shall be under the
administrative control of the Board of Commissioners. The Animal Control
Officer and the Animal Shelter Manager shall retain all powers and duties
conferred by this chapter for the detailed supervision of matters relating to
animal control.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.47  ADOPTION APPLICATION FOR ANIMAL SHELTER ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person choosing to adopt a cat or dog from the County Animal
Shelter shall complete the application form approved and recommended by the
county.
   (B)   Adoption of a shelter animal may be denied based on the information
contained on the application.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.48  FEES FOR SURRENDERING AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   Persons who surrender an animal or animals to the County Animal
Shelter or to Designated Animal Shelter personnel, shall incur surrender fees
as periodically established by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The current schedule of fees is hereby adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.49  EUTHANIZING AN ANIMAL.
   Persons who wish to surrender their animal to the County Animal Shelter for
the purpose of euthanizing said animal, shall incur a fee as periodically
established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.50  ANIMAL QUARANTINE FEES.
   (A)   If a person voluntarily delivers an animal to the County Animal
Control Shelter for the purpose of quarantining the animal, the owner shall be
charged a fee as periodically established by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Persons who fail to recover their animal following the quarantine
period shall be deemed to have voluntarily abandoned their animal to the
custody of the County Animal Shelter and shall also be liable for the
aforementioned quarantine fees.
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons who violate the provisions of §
90.02 shall be subject to a penalty of $50 for the first offense, with the
penalty for the next offense of said section in the amount of $100, and the
third offense shall permit the Animal Control Officer to seize and retain the
animal and the animal shall become the property of the county. In the event
that such person has no additional violations of §
90.02 for a period of 12 consecutive months, the penalty for any violation of §
90.02 after that period shall start the sequence over at the first offense.
   (C)   Persons who violate any provision of §
90.03 shall be subject to a penalty of at least $500, but not more than $1,000
for the first offense, with a penalty for each subsequent offense being $1,000.
In the event the person has no additional violations of §
90.03 for a period of 12 consecutive months, the penalty for any violation of §
90.03 after that period shall be at least $500, but not more than $1,000 for
the first offense with the penalty for each subsequent offense being $1,000. In
addition to the penalties prescribed above, the court may order the offender to
personally supervise the dog that be owns, keeps, or harbors to complete
obedience training.
   (D)   Persons who violate §§
90.20 through
90.22 shall be subject to a penalty of $50 for the first offense, with the
penalty for each subsequent offense of those sections increasing by an
increment of $50. In the event the person has no additional violations of any
of those sections for a period of 12 consecutive months, the penalty for any
violation of any of those sections after that period shall be $50 for the first
offense, with the penalty for each subsequent offense increasing by an
increment of $50.
   (E)   Persons who violate §
90.44 shall be subject to a penalty, and up to $1,000 for each offense
(Ord. 2014-01-03, passed 1-13-2014)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Administration
   
91.03   Owner’s responsibility
   
91.04   Notice to county by landowner
   
91.05   Removal by county
   
91.06   Continuous abatement order
   
91.07   Effective date
   
Appendix A:   Weeds Complaint Checklist
§ 91.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS and/or RANK VEGETATION. Any vegetable matter, weed, or grass that is
not cultivated in plant beds by the landowner, and which exceed the height of
12 inches. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such definition shall not include
trees, bushes, or shrubs which have been planted and cultivated by the
landowner, nor agricultural crops, such as hay and pastures.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 91.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   The office of the Building Inspector shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 91.03  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any occupant of real property within
the county to permit weeds and/or rank vegetation to grow upon such property.
All owners of real property within the county shall cut and remove all weeds
and/or rank vegetation growing upon the property.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04  NOTICE TO COUNTY BY LANDOWNER.
   Upon determination by the County Building Inspector that weeds and/or rank
vegetation exist, the Building Inspector shall issue a written notice to the
landowner that the weeds and/or rank vegetation must be removed within ten days
of the mailing of the notice, which notice shall be sent to at least one of the
landowner’s last known address by U.S. certified mail, or, in the alternative,
the Building Inspector may have the Sheriff’s Department deliver the notice to
the landowner personally, and such notice shall be deemed given on the date of
mailing if mailed, or on the date of personal delivery if served by the
Sheriff’s Department. The landowner may appeal the order to remove the weeds
and/or rank vegetation by delivering to the office of the Building Inspector
written notice of contest within ten days of the mailing of the notice if
mailed, or within ten days of delivery of the notice if delivered by the
Sheriff’s Department. The appeal by the landowner shall be heard and determined
by the Board of Commissioners at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which
time the landowner may appear and be heard.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 91.05  REMOVAL BY COUNTY.
   (A)   If the landowner fails to remove the weeds and/or rank vegetation
within the time prescribed in the notice as set forth in §
91.04, the county may remove the weeds and/or rank vegetation, as permitted by
I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 and I.C. 36-1-6-2, by having employees of the county enter
upon the property and remove or cut the weeds and/or rank vegetation with
county equipment, or by contracting with others to remove the weeds and/or rank
vegetation. In removing the weeds or rank vegetation the county or contractor
may also remove any trash, refuse, and unregistered inoperable motor vehicles
from the property incidental to cutting the weeds and rank vegetation.
   (B)   After removal of the weeds and/or rank vegetation by the county as
provided in division (A) above, the Building Inspector shall then issue a bill
to the landowner for the costs incurred by the county in such removal. Such
costs shall include an administrative charge of $50 to compensate the county
for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the bill, plus the fees of the
contractor if a contractor is used. If county employees and equipment are used,
the Building Inspector shall also include in the billing charges, the time of
the county employees, and the use of the equipment of the county, in such
amounts as the Board of Commissioners establishes from time to time by Board of
Commissioner action as the current rate for the use of such equipment and the
use of such county employees for such services. The billing shall be sent to
the landowner in the same manner as provided in §
91.04 for the issuing of the initial notice, and the landowner shall be given a
period of 15 days from the date of the mailing of the notice if the notice is
mailed, or from the date of personal delivery if the notice is personally
delivered, to make payment of the charges; provided, however, that if the
landowner contests the propriety of the charges or the cutting of such weeds
and/or rank vegetation, the landowner may, within such 15-day period of time,
deliver written notice to the office of the Building Inspector of the
landowner’s contest of the cutting and/or the charges. The appeal of the
landowner shall be heard and determined by the Board of Commissioners at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the landowner may appear and be
heard.
   (C)   If the owner of the real property fails to pay a bill issued under
this section within the time specified, the Building Inspector shall certify
the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in
the certification, as provided for by I.C. 36-7-10.1-4 to the County Auditor
for collection as delinquent taxes are collected. The minimum charge for
certification, including administrative costs and removal of weeds or rank
vegetation, is $300.
   (D)   Amounts collected for the removal of weeds and/or rank vegetation as
provided by this chapter shall be disbursed to the County General Fund.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 91.06  CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT ORDER.
   If an initial notice of the violation of an ordinance was provided by
certified mail or equivalent service under §
91.04, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time
of abatement instead of by certified mail or equivalent service as required
under §
91.04. A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the real property
owner that each subsequent violation during the same calendar year for which
the initial notice of the violation was provided, may be abated by the court,
or its contractors without any additional notice. Bills will be sent to at
least one of the landowners as provided in §
91.05(B) and, if not paid, an additional weed lien will be certified as
provided in §
91.05(B) and §
91.05(C).
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 91.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after its stated passage.
(Ord. 07-01-13, passed 7-1-2013)
APPENDIX A: WEED COMPLAINTS CHECKLIST
1.   Written Complaint concerning weeds is received.
2.   Building Inspector investigates complaint and finds the building to be:
   a.    A violation of the weed ordinance (
Ch. 91).
3.   Building Inspector photographs the property.
4.   Contact the County Attorney and provide photographs (electronically),
address, and owner name, if known. The County Attorney will order title search
and then provide to Building Inspector an Attorney’s Title Opinion showing
parties with a substantial interest in said property.
5.   Building Inspector will complete order form.
6.   Building Inspector will send order via certified mail to all parties
indicated on the Title Opinion and simultaneously will publish the order with
the newspaper to run consecutive weeks.
   a.   A hearing must be held at the earliest of ten days after notice is
given (meaning the date the order is received or the second day the order was
published) if the Building Inspector recommends:
      1.   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and premises in
accordance with standards established by ordinance.
   b.   The Board of Commissioners shall make a determination in writing (but
not at a public hearing) that a “reasonable effort” was made to make service of
the order and maintain this record in the file.
7.   The hearing, if required, will be before the Board of Commissioners and
the Board of Commissioners can decide to affirm the order issued by the
Building Inspector, rescind it, or modify the order. If the Board of
Commissioners affirm the order, a continuous enforcement order shall be issued.
The minutes of the hearing should reflect the findings made and action taken by
the Board of Commissioners.
8.   Parties with a substantial interest in the property can appear in person
and/or by counsel at the hearing. The complainant may also appear at the
hearing. The orders issued by the Board of Commissioners shall be promptly sent
to all parties.
9.   If the Board of Commissioners issue a continuous enforcement order,
service has been made on all parties listed on the title opinion, the order has
not been complied with, and no court proceeding is pending, the county may
proceed with hiring a contractor to perform the work required by the order or
using county resources to do the work.
10.   If the work is $10,000 or more, the work must be let at public bid and
notice provided to all parties listed on the title opinion.
   a.   Note: If this situation occurs, contact the County Attorney for
instructions and direction on how to proceed.
11.   If the cost of the work is below $10,000, no public bids must be
solicited. A local contractor engaged in this type of work can be used to do
the work or the county could undertake the work with its own employees.
12.   It will be important to track the date of the work is completed by the
contractor or county. The bill for the work should be sent to each person
having a substantial interest in the property.
   a.   If the costs have not been paid by a person having a substantial
interest in the property within 15 days of the completion of the work, the
Building Inspector shall send notice to all parties listed on the Title Opinion
and demand full payment within 30 days, including the administrative fees of
the county.
   b.   If the payment has not been made within 30 days, the Building Inspector
shall certify the amount due to the County Auditor.
13.   The Building Inspector shall record with the County Recorder the order
and any subsequent actions taken, such as a continuous enforcement order,
notice of public bids, modification, or termination of an order, and the like.
   a.   Timely recording of these documents is very important.
   b.   Contemporaneously with the issuance of the order, send the order to the
Recorder for recording. There may be a charge for the recording.
Note: Since the Board of Commissioners acts as the hearing officer on the
merits of any weed complaints, then complaints from citizens or the responses
by the property owners should not be addressed to the Board of Commissioners
before the time set for a hearing. Therefore, a person wishing to complain
about weeds should be referred to the Building Inspector, but not put on the
agenda for a Board of Commissioners meeting.
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS, ROADS, AND HIGHWAYS
Section
   
92.01   New road and unimproved requirements; material requirements
   
92.02   County road maintenance
   
92.03   County road/road cuts
   
92.04   County road rights-of-way not maintained
   
92.05   School bus turn-arounds; construction, county rights-of-way, and the
like
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  NEW ROAD AND UNIMPROVED REQUIREMENTS; MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   New roads.
      (1)   The road shall have a minimum of an eight-inch base plus four
inches of gravel and a minimum of three inches of binder (black top). All roads
must have sufficient ditches and any culvert pipes must be a minimum of 18
inches in diameter.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of 18 feet of actual road surface on any
newly installed roads. There shall also be a minimum of a 50 feet right-of-way
on newly installed roads.
      (3)   The road has to be maintained for the term of one year by the
owner/contractor. Upon completion of the road, the Highway Supervisor shall be
notified for the preliminary inspection. After the one-year term, the road will
have the final inspection, also performed by the Highway Supervisor to ensure
the road meets county specifications. Once the road meets these required
specifications, it will then be at the Board of Commissioners’ discretion as to
take over the maintenance on such road.
   (B)   Unimproved roads. There will be two sets of specifications pertaining
to unimproved roads, they are as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Any portion of a unimproved road that connects with a county-
maintained road that is blacktop must meet the following requirements and
specifications.
         (b)   The road must have a minimum of an eight-inch base, plus four
inches of gravel and a minimum of three-inch binder (blacktop). All roads must
have sufficient ditches and culvert pipes must be a minimum of 18 inches in
diameter. The road width shall be no less than the connecting maintained county
road and a maximum of 18 inches wide with a minimum of a 40-foot right-of-way.
      (2)   (a)   Any portion of an unimproved road that connects with a
county-maintained road that is gravel must meet the following requirements and
specifications.
         (b)   1.   The road shall have a minimum of an eight-inch base, plus
four inches of gravel. All roads must have sufficient ditches and culvert pipes
must be a minimum of 18 inches in diameter. The road width shall be no less
than the connecting maintained county road and a maximum of 18-foot wide with a
minimum of a 40-foot right-of-way.
            2.   Such road shall be maintained for the term of one year by the
owner/contractor. Upon completion of the road, the Highway Supervisor shall be
notified for the preliminary inspection after the one-year term the road will
have the final inspection also performed by the Highway Supervisor to ensure
the road meets county specifications. Once the road meets these required
specifications, it will then be at the Board of Commissioners’ discretion as to
take over the maintenance on such road.
   (C)   Material requirements.
      (1)   Basic requirements. Unimproved roads that connect with black top
roads must have the following:
         (a)   Base: Eight inches of No. 2 stone or a mixture of No. 2’s and
No. 53’s;
         (b)   Gravel cap: Four inches of No. 73’s; and
         (c)   Surface: Minimum of three inches of binder (black top) base and
gravel cap materials must be compacted before installation of the three-inch
binder surface.
      (2)   Connected to gravel. Unimproved roads that connect with gravel
roads must have the following:
         (a)   Base: Eight inches of No. 2 stone or a mixture of No. 2’s and
No. 53’s; and
         (b)   Surface: Four inches of No. 73’s.
      (3)   Newly installed roads. Newly installed roads must have the
following:
         (a)   Base: Eight inches of No. 2 stone or a mixture of No. 2’s and
No. 53’s;
         (b)   Gravel cap: Four inches of No. 73’s; and
         (c)   Surface: Minimum of three inches of binder (black top) base and
gravel cap materials must be compacted before installation of the three-inch
binder surface.
      (4)   Newly improved roads slag. On any installation of unimproved roads
or newly installed roads slag will not be permitted. No exceptions.
(Ord. 02-02-18, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 92.02  COUNTY ROAD MAINTENANCE.
   Before the county will consider providing maintenance to any road in the
county, the road must have an eight-inch base, plus four inches of gravel,
there must be an 18-foot minimum right-of-way, and there must be 50 feet total
right-of-way. All culverts must be no smaller than 15 inches. Landowners
requesting installation of culverts must purchase the culverts and the county
will install and maintain said culverts. In the event a replacement is needed,
the landowner will need to purchase and the county will install the culvert.
(Res. passed 4-17-1995)
§ 92.03  COUNTY ROAD/ROAD CUTS.
   (A)   Scope. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
cut, dig, trench, excavate, grade, tunnel, bore or in any way disturb any road,
street, alley, sidewalk, curb, roadside ditch, right-of-way or other public
place for any purpose whatsoever, or to install any pole in any public street
right-of-way without first filing with the County Highway Department a written
application for a permit, and without first procuring such permit therefore,
executing a bond to cover all damages occasioned by such work, and restoring
the place where such work has been done in good condition, and in the manner
provided by the terms of the section; provided, however that in case of an
emergency, cutting and excavation may proceed without delay on condition that
within 24 hours after the commencement of such cutting or excavation notice of
such work shall be given and a permit shall be applied for from the County
Highway Department, all as required under this section; provided further,
however, that:
      (1)   This section shall not apply to excavations made under contract
with or by order of the County Board of Commissioners through its proper
officials, nor to construction of any private entrances, driveways or
approaches connecting with any street in the county street system or the
installation or replacement of sidewalks, or for the installation of
landscaping.
      (2)   The provisions of this section pertaining to bonds and fees shall
not apply to work being done by any city, town, municipal corporation, or any
other county, or by any agency of the state, or by any special taxing or
service district established by law, provided that such entities shall provide
to the County Highway Department at least 24 hours notice of any such work and
shall comply with all other applicable provisions of this section.
      (3)   The provisions of the section pertaining to permits, bonds and fees
shall not apply to the setting and maintaining of utility poles and their
appurtenances along county road right-of-way by any public utility whose rates
or territories are regulated by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
   (B)   Permit application. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to cut,
dig, trench, excavate, grade, tunnel, bore or install any pole, or disturb any
road, street, alley, sidewalk, curb, roadside ditch, right-of-way or other
public place under the jurisdiction or control of the county, shall make
application for a permit therefore, which application shall be presented to the
County Highway Department for approval at least ten days in advance of
beginning the work. Said application shall indicate the estimated time or dates
during which the cut, dig, trench, excavation, grade, tunnel, bore or pole
installation, is to be made, shall describe the estimated kind and dimension in
feet and inches of the proposed work, together with the type of road surface,
the nature of the opening to be made and the exact purpose of the proposed
work; said application shall specifically describe the road, street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, roadside ditch, right-of-way or public place where such work is
to be done. The County Board of Commissioners acting through the Superintendent
of the County Highway Department, in its discretion, shall have the right to
prescribe the method of the proposed cut, dig, trench, excavation, grade,
tunnel, bore, pole installation, and the location and the time the proposed
work shall be performed. The Highway Superintendent may grant such application
or refer it to the Board of Commissioners for action. Said applicant shall
agree in connection with each and every written application for each such
permit to do at least the following:
      (1)   Pay the following applicable fees:
         (a)   Use of right-of-way per one-half mile or less: $25;
         (b)   Use of right-of-way for more than one-half mile:  $25 per each
one-half mile;
         (c)   Gravel road cut: $100; and
         (d)   Cut of paved road: $200 (includes chip and seal or concrete).
      (2)   Maintain the road surface, which has been disturbed, in a smooth
and uniform condition for a period of one year after traffic is again permitted
to pass over such filled trench or maintain the area cut outside the pavement
surface but within the right-of-way, to a condition similar to the immediate
surrounding area for a period of one year. The maintenance is to meet the
approval of the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Erect and maintain all necessary barricades, detour signs, warning
signals and lights by night (in conformance with the Indiana Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices - latest edition) required to direct traffic safely
over or around the place where such work is being done, so long as the work in
any way interferes with traffic. At any location where traffic is limited to
one lane, a flagman shall be provided by the permittee.
      (4)   Take all responsibility for any injury or damage resulting to
persons or property because of such work.
      (5)   Conspicuously display, at the site of such cut, dig, trench or
excavation opening, the name and telephone number of the person to whom the
permit has been issued, so long as the cut, dig, trench or excavation is open
or barricades are in place.
      (6)   Give notice to the County Highway Department prior to commencing
work. If the application is approved, a permit shall be issued by the County
Highway Department. Such permit shall state the period of time for which the
same is issued, shall be numbered and dated, and shall specifically describe
the road, street, alley, sidewalk, curb, roadside ditch, right-of-way or other
public place where such work is to be done and describe in detail the work to
be done. The County Highway Department shall keep on file all such applications
and a record of all permits granted. All permits issued in compliance with the
terms of this section shall be made in triplicate, the original of which shall
be filed with the County Auditor, a copy shall be retained by the County
Highway Department, and a copy given the applicant for said permit.
      (7)   Permittee shall contact Indiana 811 to locate and mark any
underground utilities before digging pursuant to I.C. 8-1-26.
   (C)   Bond provisions.
      (1)   Whenever such application is approved that includes a cut in paved
road, the applicant shall be required to give a bond to the county, which said
bond shall guarantee that the place where said work is to be done shall be
restored to a condition (including any underground pipes, drains, conduits or
wires) and in the manner provided by the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Such bond shall be in the sum of $2,000 for each separate cut, dig,
trench, excavation, tunnel or bore, which crosses any paved road, street or
alley for each excavation within the pavement not to exceed 40 square feet in
area.
      (3)   Such bond shall provide for the surety to guarantee that the
principal of said bond shall faithfully perform all the duties imposed upon
said principal for each and every cut, trench, excavation, grade, tunnel or
bore, or for each and every pole installed in any county right-of-way according
to the requirements of this section. Such bond shall remain in full force for a
period of three years from the date of the completion of the permittee’s work
to assure that no hidden damage to drains or other underground structures
occurs. No permit shall be issued until such bond has been filed with and
approved by the Superintendent of the County Highway Department. Anything
contained in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, however, a cashier’s
check or certified check payable to county, in the same sum as designated
herein for such bond, or a letter of credit issued by a financial institution
approved by the County Board of Commissioners in said same sum as designated
herein for such bond, may be filed with such application in lieu of such surety
bond; provided further, however, that public utilities whose rates or
territories are regulated by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, and
municipal utilities may submit an indemnifying agreement acceptable to the
County Board of Commissioners providing that the utility shall comply with all
the terms and conditions of section, in lieu of such bond, cashier’s check,
certified check or letter of credit.
   (D)   Permit extensions.  The holder of any permit issued which grants
permission to cut, dig, trench, grade, excavate tunnel or bore, in or under any
road, street, alley, sidewalk, curb, roadside ditch, right-of-way or other
public place, as provided by this section, shall complete the work and repair
the place or places where said work is done within 90 days from the issuance of
such permit. The County Highway Department may extend the time for the
completion of the work for which the permit was granted.
   (E)   Excavation specifications. 
      (1)   Permittee shall complete the work so that the place where excavated
will conform to the road, street, sidewalk or alley where such excavation was
made as originally improved. All of said work shall be done to the acceptance
and satisfaction of the County Highway Department.
      (2)   In cases where any tile drain is cut, crushed or in any other way
disturbed so as to render the same in unsatisfactory working order, the
permittee shall cause such structure to be repaired or rerouted according to
the standards and specifications of the County Highway Department. Permittee
shall immediately notify the County Highway Department of any underground
structures, drains, pipes, conduits or wires struck during the work.
(Ord. 01-17-06, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 03-06-2017, passed 3-6-2017)  Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04  COUNTY ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY NOT MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The person or persons requesting the assistance must own the land
being served by the county right-of-way.
   (B)   The location of the county right-of-way must be established by survey
or other acceptable proof of its exact location by the person or persons
requesting assistance.
   (C)   The person or persons requesting assistance must pay for the gravel or
other material to be installed on the county right-of-way. Such payments shall
be made directly to the supplier in advance or charged to the persons account
by prior arrangement with the material supplier(s).
   (D)   The county’s assistance shall be limited to the use of equipment and
labor with all work being performed only on the existing county road right-of-
way.
   (E)   Assistance must be approved by the Board of Commissioners in advance
of any work being performed.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners shall consider requests for assistance
under this section on a case by case basis subject to the availability of
equipment and manpower.
   (G)   Assistance under this section shall be rendered under the supervision
of the County Highway Superintendent.
   (H)   This section shall not apply to newly dedicated roads.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall repeal or alter any provision in §
92.01.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall commit the Board of Commissioners to
accept responsibility for future maintenance of the section of right-of-way
improved under the terms of this section.
(Ord. 08-20-07-1, passed 8-20-2007)
§ 92.05  SCHOOL BUS TURN-AROUNDS; CONSTRUCTION, COUNTY RIGHTS-OF-WAY, AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The Board will only consider establishing a school bus turn-around
when requested in writing by a County School Corporation.
   (B)   A school bus turn-around will only be constructed at the end of an
existing county road or if there is no other suitable exit for a school bus
from a location on the bus route.
   (C)   A school bus turn-around will not be established for temporary use.
   (D)   A school bus turn-around must be located on property owned by the
county or over which the county has a right-of-way.
   (E)   A school bus turn-around cannot be located where there is inadequate
space to safely construct the turn-around and sufficient space for a school bus
to safely use.
   (F)   A school bus turn-around will be constructed with a gravel surface
unless circumstances dictate a different material.
(Res. 04–01-13, passed 4-1-2013)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
92.03, or any rule or regulation pursuant thereto shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $2,500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Nothing in §
92.03 shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right of any
persons or property, or to maintain any action or other appropriate proceedings
therefore.
(Ord. 01-17-06, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 03-06-2017, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Open burning
§ 93.01  OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, start, or attempt to set or start an open fire
within the county during the duration of this emergency unless he or she has
first obtained and has in his or her possession a written permit from the Fire
Department having jurisdiction over the area where the open fire is to be
conducted.
   (B)   A copy of this complete section may be obtained from the County
Auditor’s office, located in the County Courthouse.
   (C)   Open fires include trash burning, camp fires, and any recreational
burning.
   (D)   This section will be in effect until enough precipitation warrants the
lifting of this order.
(Ord. 09-17-07, passed 9-17-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 94.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual
or the written permission of such parent or other person; and
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in “familial status” above.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3;
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (see 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2-(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C.22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1, and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; or
      (2)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person;
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
         (c)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §
94.03(B) and §
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, handicap, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, handicap, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin; or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter:
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such a dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs;
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A1 17.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (F)(3)(c)3. above; and
            5.   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership in
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by sections §§
94.03 through
94.06.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force, or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3, the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   “Exemptions” defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
for Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil Rights Commission
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as
defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or
older per unit.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 94.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the
county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Executive Official
of the county shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Official of the county, or the Chief Executive
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 96-07-01-8, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 08-01-2016-1, passed 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 95:  RIVERBOATS
Section
Docking
   
95.01   Docking permitted
DOCKING
§ 95.01 DOCKING PERMITTED.
   The docking of riverboats in the Town of Vevay is hereby permitted.
(Ord. 9, passed 7-31-1993)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Plan review
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Permit fees
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
110.07   Appeals
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.  As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5:
      (1)   An operator occupied residence that:
         (a)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
         (b)   Has no more that 14 guest rooms;
         (c)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
         (d)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
      (2)   The term does not include hotels, motels, boarding houses or food
service establishments.
   CATERED EVENT.  An occasion at which the food products being served have
been prepared in a licensed food service establishment and are merely held and
served at the off-site location for a private event or an organized group (such
as a wedding reception or corporate picnic). No preparation shall take place at
the event location.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The local health department in Vevay/Switzerland
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or a retail food establishment.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN.  As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, means a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his/her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-20-1-14, who
may conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING OFFICER.  An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in an appeals process. The hearing officer is not
the Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD.  A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness (such as, sewage backing up in a
food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic material).
   INSPECTION REPORT.  The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR.  The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER.  A County Health Department action of particular applicability that
determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities, or other legal
interests of one or more specific persons. The term includes a permit.
(I.C. 4-21.5-1-9)
   OUTDOOR COOKING FACILITY.  A location outside of the licensed retail food
establishment that is immediately adjacent and connected to the food service.
   PERMIT.  The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment.
   PERSON.  An association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal
entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24:
      (1)   An operation as follows that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as the following:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   A satellite or catered feeding location;
            3.   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution;
            10.   A food bank;
            11.   A commissary;
            12.   A cottage industry;
            13.   A hospice facility as defined in I.C. 16-25-11;
            14.   A health care facility as defined in I.C. 16-21-2;
            15.   A health facility as defined in I.C. 12-13-5, such as the
following:
               A.   Licensed child care centers licensed under 470 I.A.C. 3-
4.7;
               B.   Licensed child care institutions licensed under 470 I.A.C.
3-11, 470 I.A.C. 3-12 and 470 I.A.C. 3-13; or
               C.   Registered child care ministries registered under 470
I.A.C. 3-4.5.
            16.   An assisted living facility as defined in I.C. 12-10-15.
         (b)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or satellite feeding location is permitted
by the regulatory authority;
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a:
            1.   Mobile;
            2.   Stationary;
            3.   Temporary; or
            4.   Permanent;
facility or location; where consumption is on or off the premises and
regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
      (3)   The term does not include the following:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
potentially hazardous;
         (b)   A produce stand that offers only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant operated under I.C. 16-42-5;
         (d)   A private home where food is prepared by a member of an
organization that is operating under I.C. 16-42-5-4;
         (e)   An area where food that is prepared as specified in subdivision
(d) is sold or offered for human consumption;
         (f)   A bed and breakfast establishment as defined and regulated under
I.C. 16-41-31 and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5;
         (g)   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food; or
         (h)   A private home.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration with the approval of the organizers of the event or celebration.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 110.02  PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include the type of operation and type
of food preparation. (See Appendix A of the published version of 410 I.A.C. 7-
24 and the menu.)
   (C)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and approved
by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 110.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. 
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment in the county without first
obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid permit must be
posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, and/or retail food establishment operated or to be operated by
any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   Food service permits for temporary food establishments shall be
issued for a period of time at a fixed location not to exceed 14 consecutive
days in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
      (6)   Anyone wishing to operate a mobile food service shall provide proof
of a permit for the commissary if the commissary is not located and licensed in
the county. Commissaries operating in jurisdictions not requiring an individual
permit shall not be acceptable for servicing a mobile food service unit
licensed in the county.
   (B)   Permit period. 
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary retail food establishment shall be for the
term of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content.  Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall
contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. 
      (1)   A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment shall submit to the County Health Department a
written application for a permit on a form provided by the County Health
Department.
      (2)   A person desiring to operate a temporary food establishment shall
submit to the County Health Department a written application for a permit on a
form provided by the County Health Department at least 14 days prior to the
event.
   (E)   Content of the application.  The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment is owned by an association, corporation,
individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment; and
      (4)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualifications.  To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment and provide required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Change of ownership.  The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (H)   Responsibilities of the operator.  Upon acceptance of the permit
issued by the County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the
permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference in this chapter and the conditions of any variances
granted by the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with the directives of the County Health Department
including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports,
notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the County Health
Department in regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment who has not paid the permit fee
required to be paid for the operation of such establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and the
permit shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment and/or a food establishment shall be set by the
County Health Department, as provided by the state statutes (see I.C. 16-20-1-
27).
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment operated or to be operated by
any person.
   (F)   An organization that is exempt under I.C. 16-18-2-137 will not be
subject to permit fees.
   (G)   The payment of fees under this section is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05  INSPECTION.
   (A)   Generally.  The County Health Department shall inspect bed and
breakfast establishments and/or retail food establishments at least once every
six months. Additional inspections may be performed as often as necessary for
the efficient and effective enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
inspect temporary food establishments prior to beginning any operations and as
often as necessary to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   The Health Department, upon proper identification, shall be
permitted to enter any food service at any reasonable time and shall be
permitted access to all parts of the food service for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter. The County Health
Department shall be permitted to examine records maintained by the food service
to obtain information pertaining to the source of food and supplies in the food
service or relevant to the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a retail
food establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained by law (see I.C. 16-20-1-26).
   (D)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8.
   (E)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (E)(2), an operator shall at the
time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (F)   Refusal to sign acknowledgement.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgement of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgement of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
records for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgement of receipt.
   (G)   Public information. Except as specified in Section 194 (Trade Secrets)
of 410 I.A.C. 7-24, the County Health Department shall treat the inspection
report as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a
person who requests it as provided by law.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 110.06  COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
is denied, the County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a
notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided by law.
   (B)   Follow-up inspection; County Health Department response to violators. 
      (1)   If upon a follow-up inspection, the County Health Department finds
that a food operation, person, or employee is violating any provisions of this
chapter which were in violation on the previous inspection concerning which a
written order was issued, and the date by which the violation shall be abated
has passed, the County Health Department may do any or all of the following:
         (a)   Offer the alleged violator an opportunity to enter into an
agreed order providing for:
            1.   The actions required to correct the violations; and
            2.   If appropriate, the payment of civil penalty.
The County Health Department is not required to extend the offer for more than
30 days.
      (2)   Promptly issue a written order to the permittee of the food
operation to appear at a certain time and place in the county, in order to show
cause why the permit issued under the provision of division (C) should not be
revoked.
      (3)   Furnish evidence of the violation to the county legal
representatives for enforcement.
   (C)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
if it determines through inspection, or examination of employee, food, records,
or other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard
exists. A suspension shall not exceed 30 calendar days. The permit may be
suspended for a longer period of time as determined by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Permit revocation. The County Health Department may revoke a permit to
operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment for
a time period not to exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been revoked in
the past and a clear demonstration of non-compliance is demonstrated by the
permit holder, then the permit may be revoked for a longer period of time as
determined by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department. 
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (F)   Resuming operations. If a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
County Health Department before resuming operations.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 110.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
of §
110.06 shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a hearing
officer by filing an administrative written request therefore with the Health
Officer. The written request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health
Officer and must be received within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of such request, the hearing officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The hearing officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of proceedings.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeal
procedure.
(Ord. 05-16-2016-4, passed 5-16-2016)
CHAPTER 111:  TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING OPERATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Sanitary operations of tattoo parlors
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Operator training responsibilities
   
111.04   Operator responsibilities
   
111.05   Operator policies
   
111.06   Tattoo artist and body piercer minimum training and certification
requirements
   
111.07   Patron records
   
111.08   Illness
   
111.09   Handwashing
   
111.10   Personal protective equipment
   
111.11   Tattoo equipment
   
111.12   Needles
   
111.13   Reusable equipment
   
111.14   Dyes or pigments
   
111.15   Work environment
   
111.16   Infectious waste containment
   
111.17   Treatment and transport
   
111.18   Effective date
Administration
   
111.30   Permits
   
111.31   Inspections
   
111.32   Procedures when violations are noted
   
111.33   Permit suspension/revocation
   
111.34   Other permit revocation, suspension, and immediate closure orders
   
111.35   Hearing
   
111.36   Appeal
   
111.37   Enforcement
   
111.38   Violations; injunction
   
111.39   Expense
   
111.40   Cumulative
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  SANITARY OPERATIONS OF TATTOO PARLORS.
   All places, individuals, and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo or body piercing to a person shall be regulated by this
chapter and shall maintain the premises in which tattoos or body piercings are
performed and equipment used in the tattoo or body piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS.
      (1)   Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can
cause disease in humans.
      (2)   These pathogens include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   HBV;
         (b)   HCV; and
         (c)   HIV.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than ear lobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-
medical purpose.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The Switzerland County Department of Health.
   FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which is any
room or space that is mobile or stationary where tattooing or body piercing, or
both, is provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both,
is conducted.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH COMMISSIONER. The duly appointed Health Commissioner as set forth in
I.C. 16-20-2-16. The County Health Commissioner or his or her designee shall be
designated as the official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The Health
Commissioner may designate a representative in the Health Department to perform
those duties and responsibilities of the Health Commissioner.
   HIGH LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that destroys all microorganism, with the
exception of high numbers of bacterial spores.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease.
      (2)   Infectious waste includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps;
         (b)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated
biologicals, and infectious agent stock;
         (c)   Pathological waste;
         (d)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
         (e)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in liquid and
semi-liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; or
         (f)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION. A process that inactivates (but does not
necessarily kill bacterial spores):
      (1)   Mycobacterium tuberculosis;
      (2)   Vegetative bacteria;
      (3)   Most viruses; and
      (4)   Most fungi.
   MOBILE FACILITY. A tattoo parlor or a body piercing facility, or both, which
is any moveable room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is
conducted.
   OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, manages, or owns any facility.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM.The following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritonea! fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; or
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; or
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV- or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood or blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Any piercing of the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles or other items are inserted for temporary or permanent placement upon a
person.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing of the mucus membranes or the skin through which
needles or other objects are inserted for temporary or permanent placement.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.03  OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is an operator shall comply with the following
training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensures that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility, who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensures that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the facility, or
anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM; and
   (C)   Ensures that a record of training described in divisions (A) and (B)
above is maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.04  OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The operator shall ensure that tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables
needed to implement the precautions required by this rule and the State
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The operator shall require tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone
employed by the facility, or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal
precautions education requirements contained in §
111.06.
   (C)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The operator shall display written materials prepared or
approved by the Department explaining universal precautions and patrons’ rights
under this rule.
      (2)   These materials shall include information on how to report
violations of universal precautions and shall include information regarding the
Department’s duties to investigate.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.05  OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this rule and
the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing or
body piercing and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact wild blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Requires disinfection or sterilization of contaminated reusable items;
   (C)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infections waste safely.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.06  TATTOO ARTIST AND BODY PIERCER MINIMUM TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the
facility, and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
blood or OPIM shall complete the training program that is required under the
requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
      (2)   The programs under this section shall be as follows:
         (a)   A bloodborne pathogen training session provided by the operator
meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030); and
         (b)   Any bloodborne pathogen continuing education program accredited
by a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists, body piercers, anyone employed by the facility,
and anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye. mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM
must be trained in the facility’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.07  PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years.
   (B)   The record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age; age must be verified by two items of identification, one of
which must be on valid government issued identification;
      (4)   Date of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing on the patron’s body;
      (7)   The name of the tattoo artist or body piercer who performed the
work;
      (8)   Jewelry or other decoration used; and
      (9)   Parental consent must be in writing when performed on any minor as
required by law. I.C. 35-45-21-4(e) requires the parent to be in person and
provide consent in writing.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.08  ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease that include, but are not limited to the following, shall refrain from
providing tattoos or body piercing:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo, or scabies;
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.09  HANDWASHING.
   (A)    Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing or body piercing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.10  PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices such as goggles or
glasses with a solid side shield or chin-length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   (1)   Disposable gloves, such as surgical or examination type, shall
worn during the tattooing or body piercing process.
      (2)   Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is
an interruption in the application of the tattoo or body piercing, when the
gloves become worn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a
barrier is compromised.
      (3)   Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.11  TATTOO EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single-use article only.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.12  NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.13  REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Healing procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, nondisposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
   (C)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (E)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers which are:
         (a)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
         (b)   Leak-proof on both sides and bottom.
      (2)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (F)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization or disinfection.
   (G)   Any reusable contaminated equipment that comes into direct contact, or
is likely to come into direct contract, with an instrument that penetrates the
skin other than a piercing gun shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized
prior to use.
   (H)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilizer packaging until immediately prior to use.
   (I)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucus membranes
shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
   (J)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high level
disinfection after each use and whenever visibly contaminated.
   (K)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate level disinfection.
   (L)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single use, including corks.
   (M)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.14  DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.15  WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   (1)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or
body piercing is being conducted.
      (2)   This exclusion does not apply to the following:
         (a)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers;
         (b)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
            1.   Blind persons;
            2.   Partially blind persons;
            3.   Physically disabled persons;
            4.   Guide dog trainers; or
            5.   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization, that
have been contaminated by blood, shall be cleaned and disinfected.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Non-absorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberctilocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10%) concentration in water; the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16  INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly scaled to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes that are contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that:
      (1)   Shall be impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Shall be of sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Shall be secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Shall be labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Shall be effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to
being placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed bio-hazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)    Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that
they are emptied unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been
protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other devices that
are removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.17  TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT.
   (A)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-
site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in
accordance with this rule.
   (B)   (1)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities
of infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule.
      (2)   Effective treatment may include:
         (a)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate
infectious waste;
         (b)   Steam sterilization;
         (c)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
         (d)   Thermal inactivation;
         (e)   Irradiation; or
         (f)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The operator shall ensure that infectious waste, effectively treated
or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.18  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after 12:01 a.m., on
July 1, 2008.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 111.30  PERMITS.
   (A)   Business. Each facility operation shall obtain a permit from the
County Department of Health. The permit shall provide the name and address of
the owner of the business and the name and address of each and every tattoo
artist and body piercer located at each location. The cost for this permit
shall be $250 and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on December 31
of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection as set
forth herein. The County Department of Health shall provide the appropriate
forms for this permit. Said permit shall be posted at the facility in the place
where the tattoos or body piercings are performed and shall be clearly visible
to the public.
   (B)   Mobile facility. Each mobile facility operation shall obtain a permit
from the County Department of Health. The permit shall provide the name and
address of the owner of the business and the name and address of each and every
tattoo artist and body piercer located at each location. The cost of this
permit shall be $150 and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on
December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection
as set forth herein. The County Department of Health shall provide the
appropriate forms for this permit. Said permit shall be posted at the mobile
facility in the place where the tattoos or body piercings are performed and
shall be clearly visible to the public. In addition, the date, time and
location of the event where the mobile facility will be used shall be submitted
at least 48 hours prior to the start time of the event to the County Department
of Health.
   (C)   Tattoo artist or body piercer. Every person that desires to perform
any tattoo or body piercing shall obtain a “tattoo artist permit”, “body
piercer permit”, or a “tattoo artist-body piercer permit” from the County
Department of Health. This permit must be obtained before any tattoos are
affixed or body piercing done to any person and after the requisite training.
The applicant must satisfy the minimum requirements as set forth in §
111.06. The cost of said permit shall be $50 and shall not be transferable. The
permit expires on December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be
subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Department of Health
shall provide the appropriate forms for this permit. Said permits shall be
posted at the facility in the place where the tattoos or body piercings are
performed and shall be clearly visible to the public.
   (D)   Owner/operator. In the event that a facility is a sole proprietorship
and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body piercing for their business,
the owner shall only be required to obtain a business permit as described in
this section.
   (E)   Guest tattoo artist or body piercer.
      (1)   Every person that desires to perform any tattoo or body piercing
within the county on a temporary basis shall obtain a “guest tattoo artist
permit”, “guest body piercer permit”, or a “guest tattoo artist-body piercer
permit” from the County Department of Health. This permit must be obtained
before any tattoos are affixed or body piercing done to any person and after
the requisite training.
      (2)   The applicant must satisfy the minimum requirements as set forth in
§
111.06. The cost of said permit shall be $15 and shall not be transferable. The
permit shall expire 30 days after the date of issuance. Any holder of a permit
shall be subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Department of
Health shall provide the appropriate forms for this permit. Said permits shall
be posted at the facility in the place where the tattoos or body piercings are
performed and shall be clearly visible to the public.
   (F)   Pro ratio of fees. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist, and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time prior to
June I of any year, they shall be responsible for the total annual fee as
described in this section. In the event that a business, mobile facility,
tattoo artist, and/or body piercer shall apply for a permit any time after June
1 of any year, they shall be required to pay one-half of the annual fee. All
permits shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they were issued.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.31  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Department of Health shall conduct inspections of each and
every facility and mobile facility located in the county. The County Department
of Health shall conduct a minimum of two inspections per year for facilities
and one inspection per year for mobile facilities.
   (B)   Additional inspections may be conducted by the County Department of
Health as it determines and/or in response to complaints submitted. The results
of the inspections shall be provided to each operator.
   (C)   Violations noted by the County Department of Health shall be corrected
immediately. The Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to determine
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.32  PROCEDURES WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)    If, during the inspection of any facility, the Health Commissioner
discovers the violation of any Switzerland County Code provision, he or she
shall issue a written report listing such violations and the remedial action(s)
to be taken. A copy of said report shall be delivered to the permittee by hand
delivering the report to him or her on-site, or mailing the notice by certified
mail to the address listed by the permittee as his, her, or its mailing address
on the permit application.
   (B)   A copy of the written order shall be filed in the records of the
Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel and then shall be
made available to the public.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.33  PERMIT SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   The Health Commissioner may order the suspension or revocation of any permit
issued for a facility, which order shall include the prohibition of any further
operation for the following reasons:
   (A)   Interference with the Health Commissioner, or his or her authorized
representatives, in the performance of his or her duties. INTERFERENCE shall be
defined as the process of obstructing, hampering, or blocking the Health
Commissioner in the performance of his or her duties; or
   (B)   As a result of the willful and/or continuous violation of any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.34  OTHER PERMIT REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, AND IMMEDIATE CLOSURE ORDERS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in this (A), no suspension or revocation shall be
ordered by the Health Commissioner except after a hearing held pursuant to §
111.35(A).
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, whenever the Health
Commissioner, or his or her authorized representatives, find unsanitary or
other conditions, involving the operation of any facility which, in his or her
reasonable belief, constitutes an imminent health hazard, he or she shall
without notice or hearing, issue and serve a written order upon the permittee
requiring the immediate closure of its operations, shall cite the existence of
said unsanitary conditions, and shall specify the corrective actions to be
taken.
      (1)   Such order shall be effective immediately.
      (2)   Upon written request to the Health Commissioner, the permittee
shall be afforded a hearing on the next business day as set forth in §
111.35(A).
      (3)   The Health Commissioner shall make a reinspection upon the request
of the permittee. When the Health Commissioner determines that the necessary
corrective action(s) have been taken, operation of the facility may be resumed.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.35  HEARING.
   (A)    All hearings required under this section, except those set forth in §
111.34(B)(1), shall be held only upon at least ten days’ written notice to the
permittee of time, place and nature thereof. The notice of hearing shall be
served upon the permittee by leaving, or mailing by certified mail, the notice
to the address listed on the permit application as the permittee’s mailing
address or such other address as the permittee shall designate in writing to
the Health Commissioner.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Commissioner or the Health Commissioner’s designee. Every person
who is a party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to
cross-examine witnesses, and to be represented by legal counsel. All such
hearings shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial,
or unduly repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal in accordance with §
111.36(A).
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.36  APPEAL.
   (A)   Any permittee aggrieved by any final order of the Health Commissioner
shall be entitled to a review of the final order before the County Board of
Health (Board) by filing a written request therefor with the Secretary of the
Board within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Commissioner’s receipt of such request, the Board
shall hear the matter de novo in an open hearing after at least ten days’
written notice of the time, place, and nature thereof. (The Health Commissioner
and the permittee may agree to a shorter period of time, if requested by either
party.) The notice shall be issued by the Secretary of the Board to the
permittee filing the request.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee by leaving or
mailing by certified mail, the notice to the address listed on the permit
application as the permittee’s mailing address, or such other address as the
permittee shall designate in writing to the Secretary of the Board.
   (D)   At such hearing, the same rules of procedure shall apply as set forth
in §
111.35(B); provided, that upon written request by the permittee or the Health
Commissioner, the Board shall cause the proceedings before it to be recorded by
a reporter employed for such purpose, and the same, together with all papers
and documents filed therein, shall, at the request of either party, be
reproduced by said Board in the form of a transcript, a copy of which shall be
available to any party.
   (E)   The expense of such proceedings shall be charged to the permittee who
applied for the review, except that copies of transcripts shall be at the
expense of the party requesting the same. At the time the transcript is
requested, the Board may require the permittee to pay a deposit in an amount
determined by the Board to be necessary to secure such expense(s).
   (F)   The Board shall make written findings of facts and shall enter its
final order or determination of the matter in writing.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.37  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter shall be null and void.
   (B)   A violation of an order issued by the Health Commissioner or Board
shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.38  VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   Violations. Whenever the Health Commissioner determines that any
facility, or any other person, is in willful violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, the Health Commissioner shall furnish evidence of said willful
violation to the Prosecuting Attorney of the county or the Board Attorney who
shall seek all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating said
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Injunction. The Health Commissioner may bring an action for an
injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county, to restrain any
person from violating the provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation
(s) to be prevented, abated, or removed.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39  EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the County Department of Health for the expense, loss, or damage occasioned
by reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.40  CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation. Each day
of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be considered to be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 04-21-08, passed 4-21-2008)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   SYNTHETIC CANNIBINOIDS
      
131.   FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  SYNTHETIC CANNIBINOIDS
Section
   
130.01   Prohibited conduct
   
130.02   Burning prohibited
   
130.03   Confiscation and destruction
   
130.04   Exclusions
   
130.05   Prescriptions
   
130.06   Injunction
   
130.07   Duration
   
130.08   Definitions
   
130.09   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any individual or business to use,
possess, purchase, attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, or
attempt to sell, give, or barter any one or more of the following products
containing compounds with synthetic cannabinoids or mephedrone (“products”)
within the boundaries of the county:
   (A)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydro benzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
   (B)   2[(lR,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP 47,497 and its C6, C7, C8, and C9 homologies);
   (C)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1
Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole or JWH-018);
   (D)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1-Butyl-3
(1-napthoyl) indole or JWH-073);
   (E)   Mephedrone, also known as 4-methylmethcathinone (4-MMC), or 4-
methylephedrone;
   (F)   (6aR,10aR)-3-(1,1-Dimethylbutyl)-6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydro-6,6,9-
trimethyl-6Hdibenzo(b,d)pyran (also known as JWH-133);
   (G)   (R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de)-
1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1- napthalenylmethanone (also known as WIN 55,2112-2); or
   (H)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  BURNING PROHIBITED.
   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids or mephedrone (“products”) may
not be burned, incinerated, or ignited in any public place or on any property
owned, leased, or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  CONFISCATION AND DESTRUCTION.
   If any of the substances listed in §
130.01 are found in the possession of any individual or business within the
county, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law enforcement officials as
contraband and without compensation to the individual or business.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.04  EXCLUSIONS.
   It is not an offense under §
130.01 if the individual or business was acting at the direction of an
authorized law enforcement agent to enforce or ensure compliance with this
chapter prohibiting the aforementioned substance.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.05  PRESCRIPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to any individual or business who commits any
act described in this chapter pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act. This
chapter likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.06  INJUNCTION.
   The County Attorney, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, shall
have the authority to seek an injunction to prevent the selling or offering to
sell in violation of this chapter by any business which refuses or fails to
comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.07  DURATION.
   This chapter shall remain in effect until such time as a section of the
State Code addressing these or similar substances becomes effective at which
time this chapter shall automatically be superseded. All violations occurring
prior to that date shall be subject to the penalties herein, regardless of
whether legal proceedings related thereto have been filed or concluded prior to
the date this chapter is superseded.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.08  DEFINITIONS.
   Any term defined in this chapter by reference to a state statute shall have
the same meaning whenever used in this chapter unless clearly inapplicable by
the context in which it is used. Any reference to a state statute shall mean
the statute as amended from time to time, or any similar statutory provision
that may supersede it relating to the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and publication
in compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any individual or business found to be selling, publicly displaying for sale
or attempting to sell, give, or barter any substance listed in §
130.01 shall be considered to have violated this chapter and will be subject to
a civil fine of $2,500. Any individual or business found purchasing or
possessing any substance listed in §
130.01 shall be considered to have violated this chapter and will be subject to
a civil fine of $1,000. Any person or entity found in violation of this chapter
shall be responsible for payment of reasonable costs and attorney’s fees
associated with the enforcement of this chapter. Notice of violation of this
chapter may be provided by any local or state law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2010–10-18-2010, passed 10-18-2010)
CHAPTER 131:  FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
Section
Second Amendment Preservation Act
   
131.01   Findings
   
131.02   Prohibition on federal infringement of the right to keep and bear arms
   
131.03   Effective date
SECOND AMENDMENT PRESERVATION ACT
§ 131.01  FINDINGS.
   The County Board of Commissioners finds that:
   (A)   The Second Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reads as
follows, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free
state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed”.
   (B)   All federal acts, laws, orders, rules, or regulations regarding
firearms are a violation of the Second Amendment.
(Ord. 04-15-13, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 131.02  PROHIBITION ON FEDERAL INFRINGEMENT OF THE RIGHT TO KEEP AND BEAR
ARMS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners declares that all federal acts,
laws, orders, rules, regulations, past, present, or future in violation of the
Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution are not authorized by the U.S.
Constitution and violate its true meaning and intent as given by the Founders
and Ratifiers; and are hereby declared to be invalid in this county, shall not
be recognized by this county, are specifically rejected by this county, and
shall be considered null and void and of no effect in this count).
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of this county to take all
measures as may be necessary to prevent the enforcement of any federal acts,
laws, orders, rules, or regulations in violation of the Second Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution.
(Ord. 04-15-13, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 131.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This act (herein referred to as the “Second Amendment Preservation Act”)
takes effect upon approval by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 04-15-13, passed 4-15-2013)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   RURAL ADDRESS SYSTEM
      
152.   REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of the Unsafe Building Law
   
150.02   Building permits
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Appointment of Building Commissioner
   
150.18   Authority
   
150.19   Scope
   
150.20   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.21   Permit required
   
150.22   Permit applications
   
150.23   Other ordinances
   
150.24   Fees and required inspections
   
150.25   Inspections
   
150.26   Review of applications
   
150.27   Entry
   
150.28   Stop order
   
150.29   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.30   Standards
   
150.31   Violations
   
150.32   Right of appeal
   
150.33   Remedies
   
150.34   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF THE UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Adoption of the Unsafe Building Law. The County Board of Commissioners
hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, which establishes the
State Unsafe Building Law and explicitly incorporates by reference as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein the definition
of “substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
   (B)   Appointment of Department to administer this section. The Building
Inspector shall be the executive department authorized to administer this
section.
   (C)   Construction. Any reference to a “state statute” shall mean I.C. 36-7-
9-1 et seq., or said statute as amended from time to time, or any similar
statutory provision that may supersede it relating to the same or similar
subject matter.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect upon
adoption and publication in compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Ord. 07-01-13-1, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 150.02  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a building permit is issued, it shall contain a full address
of the applicant, a telephone number where the applicant can be reached, and an
exact location of the proposed project.
   (B)   This section shall in no way alter any other ordinances in effect.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2001-01-09-04A, passed 9-4-2001)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of Switzerland County, Indiana”, or “Building
Code”, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this
subchapter”.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety, and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.17  APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   There is hereby created and established the office of County Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners. He or she shall not be actively engaged in the
construction field or related activities, (including real estate sales,
development, or rentals), within the county during his or her employment as
Building Commissioner. The Executive Director of the County Area Plan
Commission may be appointed and serve as the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.18  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in
the building regulations it is provided that anything must be done to the
approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any
other officer of the state or county, this shall be construed to give such
officer only the discretion of determining whether the rule and standards
established by ordinance have been complied with, and no such provision shall
be construed as giving such officer discretionary powers as to what such
regulations, codes, or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner. Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to
approval under the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
   (B)   The Building Commissioner is authorized to employ sufficient qualified
inspectors, assistants, or other employees, subject to the approval of the
Board of County Commissioners and the County Council.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.19  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance, and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4, and fences and farm accessory buildings in the
county. Repair of existing buildings or structures are covered by the
provisions of this subchapter only if they affect the exterior perimeter and/or
structural strength of such building or structure.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.20  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following Building rules, regulations, and codes of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length
herein as the rules and regulations governing the construction and alteration
of buildings and structures in the county, and shall include later amendments
to those Articles as the same are published in the State Register or the State
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards, being 675 I.A.C. 13-1; and
         (b)   State Building Code, being 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code, being 675 I.A.C. 14; and
         (b)   CABO One and Two-Family Dwelling Code; amendments, being 675
I.A.C. 14-2.1.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Code: State Plumbing Code, being 675 I.A.C.
16-1.4;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:  State Electrical Code, being 675
I.A.C. 17-1.8.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: State Mechanical Codes, being 675
I.A.C. 18-1.6;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code, being 675 I.A.C. 19-4; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code, being 675 I.A.C. 19-4-
2 et seq.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Code: State Swimming Pool Code, being
675 I.A.C. 20-1.1 et seq.
   (B)   All National Flood Insurance Program regulations governing the
construction and alteration of buildings and structures in the county
(contained in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d)) as specified on Attachment A (§ 10, Review
Sheet for NFIP Regulations) pertaining to state and federal permits,
subdivision review, building permit review, flood-proofing nonresidential
structures, manufactured home standards, utility, construction, recordkeeping
(including lowest floor elevations), and watercourse alteration and
maintenance, are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein and shall include later
amendments to these regulations.
   (C)   Copies of these codes, rules, and regulations, adopted herein by
reference and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if
set out at length herein, are on file as required by law in the office of the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.21  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. A permit, using forms furnished by the Building
Commissioner as approved by the Board of Commissioners, shall be obtained
before beginning new construction, or altering or repairing existing buildings
or structures if the alterations or repairs affect the exterior perimeter, and/
or structural strength of such buildings or structures; and the cost of which
construction, alteration, or repair exceeds $1,000; and the size of which
exceeds 191 square feet; or which construction involves the installation of a
permanent new electric service for any reason; or the changing or alternation
of an existing service entrance; or the installation of temporary service for
new construction.
      (2)   Exception. Residential satellite TV installations. All permits
shall be issued by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued unless the application for the same
shall be accompanied by the fees due therefor. These fees shall be paid to the
Building Commissioner, who shall forthwith pay over such fees to the County
Auditor to the credit of the General Fund of the county, daily, and no part of
the fees shall be returnable to the applicant, unless specifically authorized
by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any work for which a
permit is required unless the person doing the work shall maintain a building
permit for the work in a full and conspicuous place on the site of the work
until the work shall be finished and finally inspected.
      (2)   No permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be removed from
the site of the work authorized thereby until permission for its removal is
granted by the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   Where the Building Commissioner has issued a building permit pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter, such permit shall become null and void
unless work thereon is underway within six months or if the work thereon is not
completed within three years of the date of issuance of such permit.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Drawing required. No permit shall be issued for the purposes specified
in §
150.21, unless the application for the permit is accompanied by two copies of
drawings, plans, and specifications showing in complete detail the following:
      (1)   Plat or map of the parcel of land involved, showing the location of
the proposed or existing building or structure, and set back from streets or
property lines of the proposed building or structure on the lot or premises;
      (2)   A complete survey, showing all property lines and the size of the
lot or premises where any building is to be erected or constructed, and
certified by a professional engineer or land surveyor registered in state,
unless, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner, the survey is not
necessary;
      (3)   All construction and details;
      (4)   Electrical work, wiring, or installations showing the exact
location of all apparatus, and the size and capacity thereof; the size of all
main and branch conduits; the location of all openings and cabinets; and the
capacity of all conductors; provided, however, that the requirements of this
division (A) shall not be applicable to meter and service installations, or
maintenance, repairs, or alterations to equipment used by public utilities; and
      (5)   Except for single-family dwellings, plumbing work showing the
following: the exact location of all fixtures and apparatus, and the capacity
thereof; the size of all pipes; the location of all openings and traps; and the
capacity of all conductors; provided, however, that the Building Commissioner
may dispense with the requirement that drawings be furnished in cases of
repairs the cost value of which does not exceed $200.
   (B)   “Approved” stamp. Both copies of the drawings, plans, and
specifications referred to in division (A) above, shall be stamped “approved”,
(if approved by him or her) by the Building Commissioner, and one such copy
shall be returned to the applicant to be kept on the job site at all times.
   (C)   Release for construction required. All plans for building construction
under the authority of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
the state must also be filed with the State Building Commissioner. No local
permits shall be issued until a copy of a release for construction from the
State Building Commissioner is received by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.23  OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto.
   (B)   In addition to the fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.24  FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   Permits required by §
150.21 shall be issued upon prior payment of inspection and permit fees
according to the following schedule.
Type of Construction Permit Fee
Type of Construction                    Permit Fee
Accessory buildings and structures      $25 each
Additions (all occupancies)             $40
Alterations (all occupancies)           $40
Business, commercial                    $120, plus .0015 times the total
                                        construction cost with $1,500 maximum
Educational, institutional              $100, plus .001 times the total
                                        construction cost w/$1,000 maximum
Industrial, warehouse, and bulk storage $100, plus .0005 times the total
                                        construction cost w/$500 maximum
Mobile homes, temporary structures      $40 each
Multi-family dwelling, hotels, and      $100 first unit, $30 each unit 2-10,
motels                                  $20 each unit over 10 units
Nursing homes, each unit                $60
Pole barns                               
- In agricultural districts             - $10
- In non-agricultural districts         - $40
Reinspection, additional inspection     $25 each
Single-family dwelling                  $100
Swimming pools                           
- In ground                             - $60
- Above ground and exceeding 250 square - $25
feet in area)
Two-family dwelling                     $130
 
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.25  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under the permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner will make the following inspections for
buildings and structures included within the scope of this subchapter together
with additional inspections which may be requested by the State Building
Commissioner:
         (a)   Footing;
         (b)   Rough-in, including framing, plumbing, heating, and electrical;
and
         (c)   Final.
      (3)   Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in §
150.24. The Building Commissioner shall in all cases designate the stage of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder.
      (4)   The permit holder shall be responsible for notifying the Building
Commissioner, orally or in writing, not less than eight working hours, viz.,
the hours between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., before covering or concealing work
to be inspected, except that the permit holder shall be responsible for
notifying the Building Commissioner, orally or in writing, not less than four
working hours, viz., the hours between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., prior to
installation of footings.
      (5)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior
inspection. No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, thermal insulation, or
structural framing shall be covered without prior inspection.
   (B)   A sticker or tag shall be attached to the building permit certifying
each phase of construction or renovation. In cases where the work is not
approved, the Building Commissioner shall cause a tag or sticker to be fastened
to the building permit, stating that the work is deemed in noncompliance. It
shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or remove the tag until authorized
to do so by the Building Commissioner. The permit holder shall repair or cause
to be repaired defective work deemed in noncompliance to this subchapter or
documents listed in §
150.20, and shall notify the Building Commissioner after the work is completed
so that reinspection can be made. No further work can progress until the
previous phase of construction has been approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   During any inspection of any electrical installation, the Building
Commissioner shall affix a tag to such electrical service installation
authorizing the utility to make its connections and provide electrical service,
and without which no utility shall provide electrical service to any building,
mobile home, or structure.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26  REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   Prior to the issuance of any building hereunder, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (C)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including pre- fabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Used construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   (1)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (2)   The above services shall be completed within three working days
after the date of filing of the application, except in cases where approval of
the State Building Commissioner is required, in which case the review of the
application shall be completed within three working days after receipt of copy
of release for construction from the State Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.27  ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representatives, may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure, or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.28  STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.29  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three working days after
completion of final inspection for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired; provided, such building or structure was erected, altered, or
repaired in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.30  STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner using accepted
standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.31  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, covered by this subchapter, in the county, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, utility, or
corporation to supply or provide electricity, or to cause or permit the same to
be done to any building, mobile home, or any other structure unless and until
there has been performed an inspection by the Building Commissioner of the
county, or his or her authorized agent, and proper indication has been made by
such Building Commissioner in the form of a tag that electrical service may be
provided thereto.
      (2)   In the event of an emergency, the Building Commissioner is
authorized to verbally approve establishment of service if the delay would
cause such harm or damage to persons as to jeopardize life or health.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the Board of Commissioners and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 as applicable.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.33  REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the Board of Commissioners
of the county, bring actions in the Circuit Court of the county, for mandatory
and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any
order or orders, made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for
mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the
penalties provided for in this subchapter
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.34  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption and approval by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
the state, and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
150.01 shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9 as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.34, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.34, for each violation, failure, or refusal, such person, firm, or
corporation shall be subject to one or more of the following penalty
provisions.
         (a)   Any person(s), firm, or corporation failing to obtain a permit
asset forth in §§
150.15 through
150.34 shall be required to obtain a permit at three times the cost set forth
in the permit fee schedule herein above.
         (b)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to abide by any other
section of §§
150.15 through
150.34 shall be required to pay a civil penalty in an amount no less than three
times the permit fee set forth in the permit fee schedule herein above.
         (c)   Any person, firm, or corporation found in violation of §§
150.15 through
150.34 shall be enjoined from any further building or construction until such
time as they comply with the terms of §§
150.15 through
150.34, to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
150.15 through
150.34 constitutes a Class A infraction; for all violations prosecuted under
this division (C), the prosecuting attorney shall represent the Building
Commissioner; the remedies set forth in this division (C) are not mutually
exclusive; the Building Commissioner may pursue any or all remedies set forth
in division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. 6-5-95B, passed 6-5-1995)
CHAPTER 151:  RURAL ADDRESS SYSTEM
Section
   
151.01   Rural address locating system
   
151.02   Relation to health and welfare
   
151.03   Conformity
   
151.04   General requirements
   
151.05   Administrative office
   
151.06   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
151.07   Standards for posting of house numbers
   
151.08   Renumbering of houses and structures
   
151.09   Notification of local agencies
   
151.10   Enforcement
§ 151.01  RURAL ADDRESS LOCATING SYSTEM.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdictional area of County Area Plan Commission is hereby
enacted (hereinafter “Rural Address Locating System”).
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.02  RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   (A)   The number of houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic
manner will make the location for such houses and structure more expeditions in
cases of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate need for medical
attention for members of family or occupants of a building, and in instances
where police protection may be required.
   (B)   An orderly and systematic house numbering process will also enhance
the delivery of goods and services, as well as increase the efficiency of
operations such as postal delivery.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.03  CONFORMITY.
   (A)   From the effective date of this chapter, the numbering of all houses
and structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public streets or
roads within the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission shall
be accomplished in conformity with rural address locating system as herein
described. At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County Health Department
to said house or structure as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such number shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing
the occupancy of a house or structure shall be issued and no final inspection
of a building performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be
deemed complete unless such house or structure displays, at the time of
inspection, is officially assigned number in full compliance with the standards
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.04  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The general rule shall be that every 100 linear feet of roadway shall
be assigned a number, except in the Towns of Vevay and Patriot and in their
respective adjoining buffer sections.
   (B)   Even numbers shall be used on the south and east sides of roads and
odd numbers on the north and west.
   (C)   The linear system to be used begins at the western county line and
proceeds west to east with number one beginning at the western county line. The
other component begins at the Ohio River and proceeds south to north with
number one coinciding with the beginning of the road.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.05  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall act as the Administrative Office
(hereinafter “Administrative Office”) in charge of issuing numbers to houses or
structures in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrative Office shall issue numbers to all new houses or structures,
renumbered houses, and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the addressing system, and cause the numbering of all
existing homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Barns, sheds, and outbuildings
not used for a habitation or business shall not be numbered.
   (B)   The Administrative Office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this chapter and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.06  NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
    The Administrative Office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the
implementation of the uniform numbering system, assign numbers to houses or
structures that are situated on private streets of roads within the
jurisdictional area of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.07  STANDARDS FOR POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the County Health Department shall post officially
assigned numbers in a location providing easy identification from the abutting
street or road.
   (B)   Such official number may be placed attached to the mailbox (as
according to postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or on any
prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is identifiable;
provided, however, that if a building is not visible from a road or if a
building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number shall be displayed at
the entrance to the access road or driveway to such building by means of a
separate marker or on a mailbox. Such number shall be a minimum of three inches
in height, made of durable, weather-proof material, and shall contrast in color
from its background for easy visibility.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.08  RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be numbered in order that the same may comply with the uniform
numbering system and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area or areas
is substantially achieved. The County Health Department, as designated in this
chapter, shall authorize such changes.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.09  NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
    The Administrative Office shall provide a uniform system of notification of
the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and structures.
Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow
interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed changes. The
Administrative Office shall keep accurate records and shall, from time to time,
prepare and make available to the Board of Commissioners, a report of the
status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system. In the assignment
of house numbers, the Administrative Office shall use its best judgment and
shall carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall, with due
regard to the sensitive nature of the job assigned to it, be considerate of the
citizens of the county.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
§ 151.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction in the
courts of the county to restrain any person, firm, or corporation who shall
take down, alter, deface, destroy, or conceal any number assigned to or placed
upon any building in compliance with this chapter, or who shall place or
substitute or permit to be placed or substituted upon any building an erroneous
or improper number not in compliance with this chapter, or who shall allow to
be retained upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance
with this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing a person, firm, or corporation to correct any violation of
the provisions of this chapter or to bring about compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. If the Board of Commissioners is successful in any such suit,
the defendant or respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including
reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1991-6, passed - -1991)
CHAPTER 152:  REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS
Section
   
152.01   Surveys prior to recordation of deed
   
152.02   Improvement statements; transfer and recordation
   
152.03   Parcel numbers
§ 152.01  SURVEYS PRIOR TO RECORDATION OF DEED.
   (A)   “Land surveyor” and “survey” shall have the meanings set out in I.C.
36-2-19-1 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever a new tax parcel is created by reason of a transfer or
subdivision of real estate in the county, then prior to the recordation of the
deed for said parcel of real estate, a survey shall be furnished to the Auditor
and recorded in the office of the County Recorder as required by I.C. 36-2-19-
4, and copies provided to the County Auditor and Surveyor. A survey shall not
be required for lots in a subdivision for which a final plat has been recorded.
A survey will be required for the re-subdivision of a platted lot.
   (C)   A survey required by this section shall be submitted on 18 inches by
24 inches Mylar and shall state the following.
      (1)   The survey shall state whether or not the survey is of all or part
of the seller’s land.
      (2)   The survey shall include the names of all adjoining owners.
      (3)   Whenever a survey is presented for recording, it shall have a prior
deed reference of the parcel that is being transferred or subdivided.
      (4)   Each survey must have listed the acreage per section and, if the
acreage is a part of two separate pervious deeds, the origin of the acreage per
deed, must be identified by the book and page numbers.
      (5)   All visible easements must be shown on the survey.
      (6)   Each survey description shall commence at a point on a section line
or quarter section line only.
   (D)   This section will be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 07-20-09, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 152.02  IMPROVEMENT STATEMENTS; TRANSFER AND RECORDATION.
   (A)   Whenever a deed is presented for transfer and recording, it shall have
a statement indicating whether or not improvements are located on the property
that are being transferred, and if so, what the improvements are.
   (B)   This section shall in no way alter any other ordinances in effect.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 09-19-05, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 152.03  PARCEL NUMBERS.
   (A)   Any time a land contract is recorded, and the real estate is a split
from a larger tract, the real estate owner must have prepared and recorded a
deed setting out the land contract parcel separately, under a new parcel
number.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect on November 15, 2004,
after its passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 10-18-04, passed 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Zoning authority
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Establishment of districts and zoning map
   
153.006   Zoning map changes
   
153.007   Zoning map replacement
   
153.008   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.009   Application of district regulations
   
153.010   Procedure relating to areas which may become subject to zoning
   
153.011   General performance standards
   
153.012   Nonconforming buildings and uses
   
153.013   Nonconforming lot areas and widths
   
153.014   Special exceptions
   
153.015   Building setback lines
   
153.016   Yard exceptions
   
153.017   Access and frontage
   
153.018   One primary building per lot
   
153.019   Conversions
   
153.020   Manufactured home and mobile homes permitted
   
153.021   Height
   
153.022   Supplementary business standards
   
153.023   Home occupations and adult business homes
   
153.024   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.025   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
153.026   General regulations
Districts
   
153.040   A-1 Prime Agriculture District
   
153.041   A-2 Agriculture District
   
153.042   FR Forest-Recreation District
   
153.043   R-1 Single-Family and Two-Family Residence District
   
153.044   R-2 Multi-Family Residence District
   
153.045   LB Local Business District
   
153.046   PB Planned Business District
   
153.047   GB General Business District
   
153.048   I-1 Enclosed Industrial District
   
153.049   I-2 Enclosed Industrial District
   
153.050   MR Mineral Reserve District
   
153.051   UD Unit Development Plan District
   
153.052   HD Historic District
   
153.053   FP Floodplain District
Uses
   
153.065   Contingent uses
   
153.066   Accessory uses
   
153.067   Temporary uses
Administration
   
153.080   Enforcement Officers, Executive Director, permits, and the like
   
153.081   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.082   Compliance with “Rule 5”
Signs
   
153.095   Purpose and intent
   
153.096   Definitions
   
153.097   General limitations
   
153.098   Sign specifications
   
153.099   Signs prohibited in all zones
   
153.100   General provisions
   
153.101   Accessory signs and sign structures
   
153.102   Maintenance and removal
   
153.103   Permit procedures
   
153.104   Revocation of permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinances, as amended, comprising
Ch. 153 of the “Code of Ordinances of Switzerland County, Indiana”, the “Code
or Ordinances of the Town of Vevay, Indiana”, and the “Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Patriot, Indiana”, shall hereafter be referred to as the “Area
Zoning Code of Switzerland County, and the Town of Vevay, and the Town of
Patriot, Indiana - 1996”, or “Area Zoning Code”.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.002  ZONING AUTHORITY.
   The county and the Towns of Vevay and Patriot hold the power to zone within
their respective jurisdictions, in order to promote orderly development and to
improve the health, safety, convenience, and welfare of their citizens through
I.C. 36-7-4, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.003  JURISDICTION.
   The area of jurisdiction of the County Area Planning Commission includes all
of the territory within the county, in accordance with the provisions of the
State Area Planning Law.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.004  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Words in the present tense include the future and vice-versa; words in
the singular number include the plural number and vice-versa; the word BUILDING
includes the word STRUCTURE and vice-versa; and the word “shall” is mandatory
and not discretionary.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes the following.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 15 days of the vehicle’s removal; or
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least six-model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days. See I.C. 9-13-2-1, “abandoned
vehicle”.
      ABUTTING. Bordering.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE. A building or use subordinate to another
structure or use located on the same lot and which does not change or alter the
character of the premises and which is not used for human occupancy; such as
public utility installations, electric distribution, and secondary power lines,
gas, water and sewer lines, their supports and poles, guy wires, small
transformers, wire or cable, incidental equipment, and public telephone booths.
      ADULT ARCADE, INCLUDING PEEP SHOWS. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled image-producing devices are maintained
to show images to five or fewer viewers at one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of
special sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale
or rental for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities, or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities, and
         (c)   Exclusion: commercial establishments shall not be considered to
be an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE, and shall not
be required to obtain a special exception under §
153.023 where:
            1.   The commercial establishment rents or sells the material set
forth above exclusively for off-premises use by the customer; and
            2.   A substantial portion of its business is not in selling or
renting the material set forth above.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear in an state of nudity, or semi-nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction of
specified sexual activities or specific anatomical areas.
      ADULT DANCE STUDIO. Any establishment or business which provides for
members of the public a partner for dance where the partner is nude or semi-
nude or where the partner, or the dance, is distinguished or characterized by
the emphasis on matter depicting, or describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT HOTEL OR ADULT MOTEL. A hotel or motel or similar commercial
establishment which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, computer software, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
which advertises the availability of this sexually-oriented type of material by
means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-
premises advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets, or leaflets, radio, or television;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT THEATERS. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment, which regularly features persons who appear in a
state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, acts of human
masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; fondling or other erotic touching
of human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast,
      AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the ground, and raising
and harvesting crops, often including feeding, breeding, and management of
livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming; in a broader sense, the science and art
of the production of plants and animals useful to humans, including to a
variable extent the preparation of these products for human’s use and their
disposal by marketing or otherwise. In this broad use, it includes farming,
horticulture, forestry, dairying, sugar making, and the like.
      AIRPORT. Any runway, landing area, or other facility designed, used, or
intended to be used either publicly or privately by any person for the landing
and taking off of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage,
and tie-down areas, hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
      ALLEY. A permanent public service way providing a secondary means of
access to abutting lands, and which is less than 30 feet in width.
      ALLEY LINE. A lot line bordering on an alley.
      APARTMENT. A building or portion thereof designed for or occupied by more
than two families. Also, a MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.
      ARTIFICIAL LAKE. A human-made body of water fed by a watercourse.
      ASSESSED VALUATION. The monetary value placed on a property and/or
building as established by the assessor with authority over the jurisdiction of
this chapter.
      AUCTION USE. A building or any specific closed or open area where
merchandise is assembled and sold by a form of sale called an auction.
      AUTOMOBILE or TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sale, or rental of new or used automobiles or trailers, and
where no repair work is done, except minor incidental repair of automobiles or
trailers to be displayed, sold, or rented on the premises.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, lacking current license plates, and state inspection
stickers, including inoperable equipment and parts thereof, are stored in the
open; and including the commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles, or
merchandise. See JUNK YARD.
      BASEMENT. A story, wholly or partly underground, which, unless subdivided
into rooms and used for tenant purposes, shall not be included as a story for
the purpose of height measurement.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential dwelling with a character other than a
hotel or motel compatible with the neighborhood providing temporary lodging
generally for less than two weeks to guests for a per night charge, in five or
fewer guest rooms, providing breakfast daily for guests, and a manager residing
on the premises, but not providing the accessory uses normally associated with
a hotel.
      BLOCK. A unit of property bounded by streets, or by streets and/or
railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or other barriers.
      BLOCK FRONTAGE. Property having frontage on one side of a street and
lying between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other barrier.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners of
Switzerland County, Indiana.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Switzerland County Area Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      BOARDING HOUSE. An essentially private residence not open to transients
which provides a private room and bathroom access and meals cooked on the
premises and/or kitchen access to boarders for a comprehensive (meals included)
weekly or monthly charge; provided, that rooms are limited to one boarder per
room and the total rooms available to boarders does not exceed four. (Note: if
the rooms are available on a nightly-charge basis or if there is a separate
charge for meals served on the premises, the facility is a motel or hotel or
bed and breakfast.)
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for
the shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, chattels,
or property. When separated by party walls, without any opening through walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with
another building.
      BUILDING, ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from the adjacent
open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a permanent roof
and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
      BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT (OF). The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a part of an
accessory building is attached to the PRINCIPAL BUILDING in a substantial
manner, as by a roof, such accessory building shall be considered a part of the
PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The official designated by the Board of County
Commissioners of Switzerland County and authorized to enforce the Building
Code. The BUILDING COMMISSIONER may also be the EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
      BUILDING LINE - BUILDING SETBACK. The line nearest the front of and
across a lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the
front line of a building or structure and the front lot line. For the purpose
of this chapter, the proposed street and thoroughfare right-of-way lines
according to the thoroughfare plan of current adoption will be considered as
the street lines for lots bordering such streets and thoroughfares.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit signed by the Building Commissioner stating
that a proposed improvement complies with the provisions of the Building Code.
      BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or services; the maintenance or
operation of offices, or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
      CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate
two or more camping parties, including cabins, tents, or other camping outfits.
      CARPORT. An open-sided roofed automobile shelter usually formed by
extension of a roof from the side of a building.
      CAR WASH. A structure, or portion thereof, containing commercial
facilities for washing automobiles, using production line methods with a chain
conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices. This term
includes a manually operated car wash facility when the operation is equivalent
in intensity to a mechanized car wash.
      CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
CEMETERY.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate signed by the Executive Director
stating that the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred
to therein complies with the provisions of the chapter.
      CHARITABLE INSTITUTION.A building or group of buildings devoted to public
service and supported by a nonprofit organization.
      CLINIC. A facility for human ailments operated by a group of physicians,
dentists, chiropractors, or other licensed practitioners for the treatment and
examination of outpatients for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm, or injured persons and those who are in need of medical or
surgical attention, but who are not provided with board or room or kept
overnight on the premises. A CLINIC shall include laboratory facilities in
conjunction with normal clinic services, but shall not include in-patient care.
      CLUB. Private buildings and facilities owned or operated by a person for
a social, educational, or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or
to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
      COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE. A building used for the growing of plants, all or
part of which are sold at retail or wholesale.
      COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITY. Any area of land, buildings, and/or
facilities used or intended for recreational purposes and operated for
remuneration.
      COMMISSION, or PLAN COMMISSION, or  AREA PLAN COMMISSION. The Switzerland
County Area Plan Commission.
      COMMON AREA. Areas within a development that serve either a portion of or
the entire development. (Example COMMON AREAS: signs; lighting; landscaping;
maintenance shed; and the like).
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite of all plans of land use, of
thoroughfares, of sanitation, of recreation, and other related matters
according to the requirements of the 500 Series of I.C. 36-7-4.
      CONDOMINIUM. One or more structures, each structure having two or more
dwelling units or other units for occupancy, wherein provisions have been made
for separate ownership of each individual dwelling unit or occupancy unit. A
type of ownership.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION.
         (a)   An operation involving the confined feeding of animals for food,
fur, or pleasure purposes in lots, pens, ponds, sheds, or buildings where food
is supplied to the animals only by means other than grazing.
         (b)   The term CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION means:
            1.   Any confined feeding of 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine
or sheep, and 30,000 or more fowl;
            2.   Any animal feeding operation electing to come under the
provisions of I.C. 13-1-5.7; or
            3.   Any animal feeding operation that is causing a violation of
I.C. 13-1-3 or any rules of the State Water Pollution Control Board.
      RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL FARM ENTERPRISE.
      CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which:
         (a)   Complies with all the regulations of this chapter or of any
amendment hereto governing the zoning district in which such building or
structure is located; or
         (b)   Is designed or intended for a conforming use.
      COOPERATIVE. A type of ownership characterized by collective ownership of
an object by an organization whose members share in the profits or other
benefits of said collective ownership.
      COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Vevay, Indiana,
or the Town Council of the Town of Patriot, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Switzerland County, Indiana.
      DAY CARE CENTER, CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER, or DAY NURSERY. A building or
part thereof including the lot devoted to the care and/or education and
training of infants (younger than two years of age) and/or children (two to 15
years) at a location away from home for less than 24 hours per day during
weekday working hours, and not including overnight accommodation or overnight
sleeping. This definition encompasses facilities generally known as child care
centers, pre-schools, kindergarten, nursery schools, and similar programs and
facilities for infants and children, but does not include “educational
institutions”. See definition FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.
      DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound.
Sound level meters are used to measure such intensities and are calibrated in
decibels.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units developed per acre of land.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, or drilling operations.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
         (a)   Specific plans for the residential, commercial, or industrial
development or other development of property settling forth certain information
and data required by the Plan Commission.
         (b)   This information and data may include:
            1.   The proposed name of the development;
            2.   The name and address of developers;
            3.   The location by public way, political township, section, and
range;
            4.   The legal description;
            5.   A map including date, scale, and point north, location, size,
capacity, and use of all buildings and structures existing or to be placed in
the development;
            6.   The nature and intensity of the operations involved in or
conducted in connection with the development;
            7.   The site layout of the development, including the location,
size, arrangement, and capacity of the area to be used for vehicular access,
parking, loading, and unloading;
            8.   The name of public ways giving access to the development and
location, width, and names of platted public ways, railroads, parks, utility
casements, and other public open spaces;
            9.   The layout of proposed public ways, their names, and widths,
and the widths of alleys, walkways, paths, lanes, and easements;
            10.   A description of the use of adjacent property and an
identification of that property;
            11.   The location, size, and arrangement of areas to be devoted to
planting lawns, trees, and other site-screening activities;
            12.   The proposals for sewer, water, gas, electricity, and storm
drainage;
            13.   The contours with spot elevations of the finished grade and
the directions of storm runoff;
            14.   The layout of proposed lots with their numbers and
dimensions; and
            15.   The land use density factors.
      DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. A disability of a person which:
            1.   Is attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy,
epilepsy, or autism; or is attributable to any other condition found to be
closely related to mental retardation because this condition results in similar
impairment of general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior, or
requires similar treatment and services; or is attributable to dyslexia
resulting from a disability described in this clause;
            2.   Originates before the person is age 18; and
            3.   Has continued or is expected to continue indefinitely and
constitutes a substantial handicap to the person’s ability to function normally
in society.
      DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility that:
            1.   Provides room and board services only, which are paid for
exclusively out of private funds; or
            2.   Provides only those services which are minimally required,
based on each recipient’s needs, for federal financial participation under
Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. §1396 et seq.); for at
least four, but not more than eight, developmentally disabled individuals who
are not related to the individual owning or leasing the facility; however, the
term does not apply to a boarding house which is approved by the department of
mental health under I.C. 16-14-4.
      DISH. The part of the earth station shaped like a saucer or dish.
      DISH-TYPE RECEIVING ANTENNA (EARTH STATION OR GROUND STATION). A signal-
receiving device, the purpose of which is to receive radio communications,
television, data transmission, or other signals from a satellite or satellites
in earth orbit. Considered a structure, thus subject to all ordinances relating
to structures.
      DISPOSAL (OR DISPOSED OF). The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on
any land or water so that such solid waste or hazardous waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be entitled into the air or
discharged into any waters, including ground waters. See LAND APPLICATION
OPERATION.
      DISPOSAL FACILITY. A site or plant where solid waste is subject to
treatment, storage, recovery, incineration, grinding, composting, collection,
or covering by earth.
      DISTRICT. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of the
Switzerland County Area Plan Commission for which uniform regulations governing
the use, height, area, size, and intensity of use of buildings and land, and
open spaces about buildings are herein established. DISTRICTS may overlap other
DISTRICTS. Also ZONE or ZONE DISTRICT.
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing,
or serving of food, refreshments, beverages, or services in automobiles,
including those establishments where customers may serve themselves and may
carry out or consume the above on or off the premises.
      DRIVEWAY. The space or area of a lot which is specifically designated and
reserved for the movement of motor vehicles within the lot or from the lot to a
public street.
      DUST-FREE SURFACE. A surface adequately covered in accordance with the
current standards of the applicable town or Switzerland County and required to
be maintained in good condition at all times.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of
abode for one or more human beings, but not including hotels or motels,
lodging, or boarding houses or tourist homes.
         (a)   A single-family dwelling is a detached building designed for or
occupied by one family, exclusively.
         (b)   A two-family dwelling is a detached building designed for or
occupied by two families, exclusively.
         (c)   A multi-family dwelling is a building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, exclusively.
      DWELLING UNIT. One room or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
      EASEMENT. A right of the owner on one parcel of land, by reason of such
ownership, or a right of the public, to use the land of another for a special
purpose as designated; a strip of land to be used by the general public, a
corporation, a utility company, or a certain person for a specific reason, for
purposes of providing services to property.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Public or parochial pre-primary, primary, grade,
high, preparatory school or academy; junior college; college or university, if
public or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or
charitable organization.
      EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room
exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets, or kitchen and dining alcove directly
off the principal room.
      EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The official employed by the Switzerland County Area
Plan Commission and authorized to enforce the Planning and Zoning Codes of
Switzerland County, Indiana, and the Town of Vevay, Indiana, and the Town of
Patriot, Indiana.
      FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
or adoption, including foster children and bona fide domestic servants employed
on a full-time basis by the family in the dwelling unit, living together as a
single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit and also including roomers;
provided, that the family, plus the roomers, shall not exceed a total of five
persons; provided further, that the limit of five persons shall not apply where
the entire group living in the dwelling unit consists of persons related by
blood, marriage, or adoption, including foster children and domestic servants.
      FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. An occupied dwelling in which a person provides day
care for children other than his or her own family and the children of close
relatives. Such care in a FAMILY DAY CARE HOME is limited to that care given to
12 or fewer children, including children living in the home and children or
close relatives cared for in the home for less than 24 hours per day during
weekday working hours. A “small family day care home” is limited to six or
fewer children and a “large family day care home” is limited to 12 or fewer
children. See DAY CARE.
      FARM. A tract of land comprising an area which is devoted to agricultural
operations, such as forestry; the growing of crops, pasturage; the production
of livestock and poultry; the growing of trees, shrubs, and plants; and other
recognized agricultural pursuits and including accessory buildings essential to
the operation of the farm. Accessory buildings may include barns, equipment,
and animal sheds; roadside sales structure for the sale of products of the
FARM; and signs displaying subject matter directly related to the name or the
products of the particular FARM; but not including industrial or commercial
operations or structures.
      FARM HOUSE or FARM DWELLING. The principle dwelling or residence of the
owner or operator of the farm.
      FARMSTEAD LOT. A tract of land located in the A-1 Prime Agriculture
District or A-2 Agriculture District, comprising a farm house or farm dwelling
built prior to the date of passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter,
and/or including accessory buildings essential to the operation of the farm.
      FEEDLOT. See CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. Any area, enclosed or
unenclosed, used for the concentrated feeding of livestock, other than grazing.
      FENCE. A freestanding device made of metal, masonry, composition, or
wood, or any combination thereof, resting on or partially buried in the ground,
rising above ground level, and used for confinement, screening protection, or
partition purposes.
      FENCE, STOCKADE. A fence constructed of vertical wood strips, with no
intervening spaces, providing a complete visual barrier.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any building wherein the primary occupation is
concerned with such federal- or state-regulated businesses as banking, savings
and loans, loan companies, and investment companies.
      FILLING STATION/SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline,
oil, grease, batteries, tires, and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail, and where, in addition, the following services may be
rendered and sales made, limited to the following;
         (a)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors
and distributor parts;
         (b)   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
         (c)   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors, and the like;
         (d)   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
         (e)   Washing and polishing, and sale of automobile washing and
polishing materials;
         (f)   Greasing and lubrication;
         (g)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps, and lines;
         (h)   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
         (i)   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
         (j)   Emergency wiring repairs;
         (k)   Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
         (l)   Sales of cold drinks, packaged foods, ice, tobacco, and similar
convenience goods for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operation;
         (m)   Rental of hauling vehicles for the moving of household goods,
but not including, the sale or rental of automobiles, mobile homes, or
recreational vehicles, as accessory and incidental to principal operation; or
         (n)   Provisions of road maps and other informational materials to
customers; provision of restroom facilities. Uses permissible at a service
station do not include major mechanical and body work, straightening of frames
or body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating
condition, or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke, or other
characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in service stations.
      FLASH POINT.The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid under
prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily using the closed cup method.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total area, computed on a horizontal plane, within
the outside dimensions of a building. See §
153.022 for application to off-street parking under subsection (D).
      FLOOR AREA, NET. The sum of the total horizontal areas of the several
floors of all buildings on a lot, measured from the interior faces of exterior
walls. The term “gross floor area” shall include basement, elevator shafts, and
stairwells of each story, floor space used for mechanical equipment with
structural headroom of six feet, six inches or more, penthouses, attic space
(whether or not a floor has actually been laid providing headroom of six feet,
six inches or more), interior balconies, and mezzanines.
      FLOOR AREA, NET. The sum of the total horizontal areas of the several
floors of all buildings on a lot, measured from the interior faces of exterior
walls and from the centerline of walls separating two or more buildings. The
term NET FLOOR AREA shall include outdoor display areas for the sale, rental,
and display of recreational vehicles, boats, and boating equipment; trailers;
horticultural items, farm or garden equipment and other similar products; but
shall exclude areas designed for permanent uses such as toilets, utility
closets, malls enclosed or not, truck tunnels, enclosed parking areas, meters,
rooftop mechanical structures, mechanical and equipment rooms, public and fire
corridors, stairwells, elevators, escalators, and areas under a sloping ceiling
where the headroom in 50% of such area is less than six feet six inches.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area of the building or buildings on a lot
divided by the area of such lot.
      FOOT-CANDLE. A unit of illumination. It is equivalent to the illumination
at all points which are a one-foot distant from a uniform source of one candle-
power.
      FRANCHISE or CABLE TELEVISION. Any television distribution system
designed to serve any residents within the jurisdiction of this chapter
authorized by any local, state, or federal agency.
      FREE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material which burns
actively and easily supports combustion.
      FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the
street, or, if the street is dead end, then all of the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of the principal
building used only for the storage of private passenger automobiles, private
boats, recreational vehicle, and private auto trailers and/or not more than one
truck of a rated capacity not exceeding one and one-half ton on any lot; when
the storage space on the lot does not exceed that normally required for the use
of persons occupying the principal building; and in which no business, service,
or industry connected directly or indirectly with motor vehicles, boats, and
trailers is carried on; provided, that not more than one-half of the parking
spaces therein may be rented for the storage of motor vehicles, boats, and
trailers of persons not resident on the premises, except that all the parking
spaces in a garage of one or two car capacity may be so rented.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building, except those defined herein as a “private
garage”, used for storage or care of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are
equipped for operation, repaired, or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
      GRADE. Also, LOT GROUND LEVEL.
         (a)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
         (b)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
overage of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets; and
         (c)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. Any wall
approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street line is to
be considered as adjoining the street.
      GREENBELT.The portion of the front yard of the lot which is immediately
adjacent and parallel to the right-of-way of a street in the PB District and
having a minimum depth of 20 feet.
      GREENHOUSE. A structure for the propagation of plant materials and for
sale of same.
      GROSS AREA. Entire area of project or platted area.
      GROSS DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units divided by the gross
area in acres.
      GROUND FLOOR. The first level of a building that provides outside access
by a door.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within
its largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plan at the ground
floor level, exclusive of porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, and exterior
stairways or other devices. A ground floor may have split levels provided there
is not more than a five-foot difference in elevations between the different
levels of the floor. See “occupied space” for manufactured dwellings.
      GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located
on the same premises with the main residence building for use by temporary
guests of the occupants of the main residence building, such quarters having no
kitchen facilities or separate utility meters and not rented or otherwise used
as a separate dwelling.
      HEALTH OFFICER. Any officer of authority, Switzerland County Health
Department, and the State Department of Health. Same as COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER,
includes COUNTY SANITARIAN.
      HEALTH FACILITY.
         (a)   Any building, structure, institution, or other place, for the
reception, accommodation, board, care, or treatment extending beyond a
continuous 24-hour period in any week of more than two unrelated individuals
requiring, in apparent need of, or desiring such services or combination of
them, by reason of age, senility, physical, or mental illness, infirmity,
injury, incompetency, deformity, or any physical, mental, or emotional
disability, or other impairment, illness, or infirmity, not specifically
mentioned hereinabove, including institutions or places or institutions
commonly known as nursing homes, homes for the aged, retirement homes, boarding
homes for the aged, sanitariums, convalescent homes, homes for the chronically
ill, or homes for the indigent.
         (b)   The reception, accommodation, board, care, or treatment in a
household or family, for compensation, of a person related by blood to the head
of such household or family, or to his or her spouse, within the degree of
consanguinity of first cousins, shall not be deemed to constitute the premises
in which the person is received, boarded, accommodated, cared for, or treated,
a HEALTH FACILITY. Any state institution or any municipal corporation may
specifically request such licensure and upon compliance with all applicable
sections of the State Code and upon compliance with all existing rules and
regulations, the petitioning facility may then be so licensed under the
provisions of I.C. 16-10-2; provided, that the term HEALTH FACILITY does not
include hotels, motels, or mobile homes when used as such; hospitals, mental
hospitals, institutions operated by the federal government; boarding homes for
children; schools for the deaf or blind; day schools for the retarded; day
nurseries; children’s homes; child placement agencies; offices of practitioners
of the healing arts; offices of Christian Science practitioners; industrial
clinics providing only emergency medical services or first-aid for employees; a
residential facility, as defined in I.C. 16-10-2.1-1; and any hospital,
sanatorium, nursing home, rest home, or other institution wherein any health
care services and private duty nursing services are rendered in accordance with
the practice and tenets of the religious denomination known as the Church of
Christ, Scientist.
      HOME OCCUPATION or HOME OFFICE USE. An accessory use conducted entirely
within a dwelling, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character or appearance
thereof.
      HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the State Department of Health and
providing health services primarily for in-patient medical or surgical care of
the sick or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories,
outpatient departments, training facilities, central service facilities, and
staff offices which are an integral part of the facility; provided, such
institution is operated by, or treatment is given under direct supervision of a
licensed physician. Types of HOSPITALS include general, mental, chronic
disease, and allied special hospitals such as cardiac, contagious disease,
maternity, orthopedic, cancer, and the like such as drug treatment center.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public
for compensation and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to
a boarding or lodging house.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit (which may be combined with a
“building permit”) signed by the Executive Director stating that a proposed
improvement or use complies with the provisions of the this chapter. A
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT is an IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
authorized by the Switzerland County Area Board of Zoning Appeals with a
definite time limit attached thereto.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK. A single or group of structures for industrial
operations forming a comprehensive arrangement of buildings, grounds, and
accessways planned in accordance with harmonious principles of architectural
and landscape architectural design and industrial management.
      INSTITUTION. A nonprofit organization established for public, charitable,
educational, or religious purposes such as church, college or university,
hospital, or school.
      INTENSE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material that burns
with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly.
      JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale, or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled, or assorted, including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick, and
similar property, except animal matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery, or
equipment which is used, owned, or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom; used lumber yards and places or yard for storage of
salvaged building wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment; but
not including establishments where such uses are conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building, and not including establishments for the sale,
purchase, or storage of used ears in operable condition, or storage of
materials incidental to manufacturing operations.
      JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The unincorporated territory of
Switzerland County, Indiana, and the territory within the Town of Vevay,
Indiana, and the Town of Patriot, Indiana, the boundaries of which are shown on
the zone map, dated 1996; as amended, which includes all of the area over which
this chapter is effective.
      KENNEL. Any lot on which four or more dogs, or small animals at least
four months of age, are kept.
      KINDERGARTEN (PRESCHOOL). A school for children primarily between the
ages of three and five, providing preparation for elementary school.
      LAND APPLICATION OPERATION. An operation in which sludge, waste products,
or wastewater generated by industrial, municipal or semi-public facilities, or
(septage) from septic haulers, are disposed of by application upon or
incorporation into the soil.
      LANDSCAPED GREEN AREA. An area which includes live plantings other than
grass. The size of planting at the time of installation shall be not less than
a minimum of 18 inches width and height for shrubs, a minimum of four to five
feet in height for evergreen conifer trees, and a minimum of six to eight feet
in height for shade trees.
      LANDSCAPING. The improvement of a lot with grass and mounding, shrubs,
trees, other vegetation and/or ornamental objects. LANDSCAPING may include
pedestrian walks, flowerbeds, retention ponds, ornamental objects such as
fountains, statues, and other similar natural or artificial objects designed
and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect.
      LIVESTOCK. Any animal which has been domestically raised primarily for
agricultural purposes, but not including house pets such as dogs, cats,
canaries, or any other similar animal or fowl usually considered a house pet.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required for the
receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise.
      LOT. A parcel, tract, or area of land accessible by means of a street or
place, and for residential uses as set forth in this chapter, abutting upon a
street or place for at least 50% of the lot width prescribed for the district
in which the lot is located. It may be a single parcel separately described in
a deed or plat which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder of
Switzerland County, or it may include parts of, or a combination of such
parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one. In determining LOT area
and boundary lines, no part thereof within the limits of a street or a place
shall be included.
      LOT, AREA. The horizontally projected useable area of a lot computed
exclusive of any portion of a street, existing or proposed.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and having frontage on two or more
intersecting streets.
      LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area of a lot visually expressed as a
percentage of the lot area that is covered, occupied, or enclosed by principal
and accessory buildings and structures.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line of a lot, measured in the general direction of the side
lot line.
      LOT, FRONTAGE. All the property of such lot fronting on a street and as
measured between side lot lines.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The linear distance of a lot measured at the front line
where said lot abuts a street, measured between side lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lots or through lot.
      LOT LINE. The property line between two established parcels of land or
one parcel and a public right-of-way or place.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the
lot from the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the narrowest frontage of a lot from the street, except in eases
where deed restrictions in effect specify another street right-of-way line as
the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Switzerland County, or a
parcel of land, the deed to which has been recorded in the office of the
Switzerland County Recorder prior to September 8, 1964.
      LOT, REVERSED INTERIOR. An interior lot, the front lot line of which is
formed by a street, which street also forms the side lot line of an abutting
corner lot. The corner lot is considered abutting even though separated from
the interior lot line by an alley.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel, or approximately
parallel streets. Also DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
      LOT, WIDTH. The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on
the building line (or in the ease of a curved building line, it is measured
tangent to the arc).
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A dwelling unit, built in a factory and bearing a
seal of compliance with Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Law, or Pub. Law No. 360, Acts of 1971, and constructed prior to
October 30, 1992, and, although it is not actually a MOBILE HOME, for the
purposes of this chapter, it is a MOBILE HOME.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory,
which bears a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (1974 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq.), or Pub. Law No. 360, Acts of 1971 (I.C. 22-11-1-9), constructed after
January 1, 1981, and exceeds 950 square feet of occupied space.
      MARQUEE or CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building and may overhang into a required yard.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes specified anatomical areas. The definition of “adult
businesses” shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed hospital,
nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or
osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the supervision of a
licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by trainers for any
amateur, semi-professional, or professional athlete or athletic team or school
athletic program, nor by any state-licensed physical therapist, nor by any
state-licensed massage practitioners.
      MATERIAL, MATERIAL RELATIVE TO ADULT BUSINESSES. Includes, but not be
limited to, accessories, books, correspondence, photographs, prints, drawings,
paintings, motion pictures, computer software, and pamphlets, or any
combination thereof.
      MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE. The entire lot or parcel which can be developed
(buildings, principal or accessory; storage areas; parking lots and other
accessory uses).
      MOBILE HOME. A transportable vehicle which is greater than eight feet in
body width and longer than 36 feet in body length and designed and constructed
as a detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
         (a)   Designed for long-term occupancy for one or more persons, and
containing sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and
kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for
attachment to outside systems;
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels,
or on flatbed or either trailers or detachable wheels; and
         (c)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities, and the like.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land which has been developed with all
necessary facilities and services in accordance with a development plan,
meeting all legal requirements, and which is intended or the purpose of
providing a site for five or more manufactured homes, manufactured dwellings,
or mobile homes for human habitation, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, including any building, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use
as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
      MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated site within a mobile home park or
subdivision for the exclusive use of the occupants of a single mobile home,
including a mobile home slab, lawn, driveway, and parking area for said
occupants.
      MOBILE HOME SLAB or FOUNDATION. The solid material upon which the mobile
home rests, consisting of a continuous concrete slab or a “permanent
foundation”.
      MOBILE HOME STAND.The part of the mobile home park which has been
reserved for the placement of one mobile home unit, including the mobile home
slab, lawn area, driveway area, and parking area for the unit.
      MODERATE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
      MOTEL. A building or detached building used as dwelling units containing
bedroom, bathroom, and closet space, and each unit having convenient access to
a parking space for the use of the unit’s occupants. The units, with the
exception of the apartment of the manager or caretaker, are devoted to the use
of automobile transients, and more than 50% of the lodging rooms are for rent
to transient automobile tourists for a continuous period of less than 30 days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailers, or semi-
trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
      NAMEPLATE. Non-illuminated sign flush with the front of the building
indicating the name or address of a building, or the name of an occupant
thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
      NATURAL RESOURCES. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in its
use or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which the
building or premises is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE, ILLEGAL. A use of a building, land, or premises
existing at the time of the passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter
which does not conform to all of the applicable provisions of this chapter, nor
those of any ordinance superseded by this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING USE, LEGAL. A use of a building, land or premises existing
at the time of the passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter which does
not conform to all of the applicable provisions of this chapter but did conform
to applicable provisions of any ordinance superseded by this chapter.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or
the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. See
I.C. 35-45-4.1.
      NURSING HOME. Same as HEALTH FACILITY.
      NURSING HOME CONVERSIONS. A dwelling which is converted for the use of a
nursing home and licensed by the State Board of Health. See HEALTH FACILITY.
      OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures such as, but not limited to, garages,
patios, and porches.
      OCTAVE BAND. A narrow range of sound frequencies which classify sounds
according to pitch. In the octave band analyzer, the audible sound spectrum is
divided into eight OCTAVE BANDS.
      OCTAVE BAND FILTER. An electrical device which separates the sounds in
each octave band and presents them to the sound level meter.
      OFFICE BUILDING. A building or portion of a building wherein services are
performed involving predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical
operations not involving any equipment other than furniture and document
processing and storage facilities.
      OFF-SITE PARKING. Parking spaces which are located within the platted
area and within reasonable proximity to dwelling units and supportive uses
(club house, tennis courts, and the like) which they serve.
      ON-SITE PARKING. Parking spaces which are located outside the garage or
carport area and are located on the individual driveway.
      OPACITY.
         (a)   A condition which renders material partially or wholly
impervious to transmittance of light and causes obstruction of an observer’s
view.
         (b)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following equivalence
between OPACITY and Ringelmann shall be employed.
Opacity Percent Ringelmann
Opacity Percent Ringelmann
10              0.5
20              1
30              1.5
40              1
60              3
80              4
100             5
 
         (c)   See RINGELMANN NUMBER.
      OPEN SALES LOT. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or
selling merchandise stored or displayed out-of-doors prior to sale. Such
merchandise includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks,
motorcycles, boats, monuments, mobile homes, and recreational vehicles.
      OPEN SPACE. The total horizontal area of a lot excluding the building
area, but including parking areas and recreational areas; provided, however, in
residential districts, said open space may include the useable roof area within
the project which has been improved for outdoor use of occupants, plus one-half
of that space, such as balconies, which may be open on its sides but not open
above to the sky.
      OUTDOOR RECREATION. Includes one or more of the following uses: riding
clubs; polo fields; horse shows; hunter trails and other equestrian sports;
conservation clubs; Girl Scout and Boy Scout lodges or clubhouses; private
parks or playgrounds; archery ranges; and other outdoor recreation uses
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and accessory uses, buildings, and
structures such as off-street parking and loading facilities, administration,
maintenance, and clubhouse building. OUTDOOR RECREATION may be private
recreational developments or outdoor commercial enterprises. See BUSINESS.
      OVERLAPPING DISTRICT OR ZONE. An additional zoning classification which
establishes additional restrictions on the use of land and overlaps other
districts on the zone map.
      PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care, or control of a
mobile home park.
      PARK, PUBLIC. A piece of ground kept for ornamental or recreational use,
or an area maintained in its natural state as a public property, owned,
operated, or endorsed by a governmental unit.
      PARKING AREA. An area paved with a hard surface in accordance with
specifications set forth in this chapter, other than a street or alley,
designed for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor
vehicles when available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as
an accommodation for clients or customers.
      PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use
or used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and being not less than
nine feet wide and 20 feet long exclusive of passageways. For computing
purposes, the average area of passageways shall be at least 70 square feet per
space. Accordingly, the minimum total average area for a PARKING SPACE is 250
square feet.
      PARTICULATE MATTER. Finely divided liquid or solid material which is
discharged and carried along in the air. This shall not include water droplets,
commonly called steam.
      PARTY WALL or COMMON WALL. A single unpierced masonry wall that
completely separates two separate dwelling units.
      PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control noise, odor,
smoke, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, and
glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil. See I.C. 22-11-1-
1.5.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER WALL. An approved non-load-bearing perimeter
structural system composed of a continuous solid or mortared masonry wall
having the appearance of a permanent load-bearing foundation characteristic of
site-constructed homes, designed to support the loads imposed and extending
below the established frost line.
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or
any other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person or persons.
      PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space other than a
street or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access
to abutting property.
      PLAN COMMISSION, COMMISSION, or AREA PLAN COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The
Switzerland County Area Plan Commission.
      PLAN COMMISSION STAFF. The Executive Director and any other persons the
Switzerland County Area Plan Commission has employed to advise them on matters
pertaining to planning and zoning.
      PLANT NURSERY. The growing of plants outside of a structure, intended for
wholesale or retail sale.
      PLANTING STRIP. A section of land not less than ten feet in width
intended to contain plant materials and for the purpose of creating a visual
separation between uses or activities.
      PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of
land, either filed or intended to be filed for record.
      PREMISES. A lot, tract, or plat including buildings thereon, if any.
      PRIVATE RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT or FACILITY. Any land area and/or
facilities used or intended for recreational purposes not open to the general
public and operated with or without remuneration charges.
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private, primary, grade, high, or preparatory school or
academy.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of a member or members of a recognized
profession as defined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE CENTER. An architectural and functional grouping of
professional offices and appropriate associated and accessory uses which is the
central feature of a site plan composed of building area, parking area,
landscaped reservation, and plantation, and other land features appropriate for
its use as a professional office enterprise, designed to serve residential
neighborhoods. Such center shall conform to the standards and requirements of
this chapter.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE IN RESIDENCE. An office in the dwelling of a member
of the following recognized professions: doctor; dentist; lawyer; engineer; and
certified public accountant; provided, that the professional service is
performed by a member or members of the family occupying such dwelling, that
not more than one additional person is employed in rendering such service, that
not more than 25% of the gross floor area is devoted to such use, and that
there shall not be used any nameplate or sign nor any artificial lighting or
any display that will indicate from the exterior that the dwelling is being
utilized in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
      PROPERTY LINES. Those lines bounding a parcel of land.
      PUBLIC FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATIONS. Those facilities and
installations which are intended to be accepted for maintenance by a
governmental authority or public utility.
      PUBLIC OR COMMERCIAL SEWAGE OR GARBAGE DISPOSAL PLANT. A facility either
publicly or privately owned and operated providing treatment for sewage and/or
garbage disposal.
      PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities, municipal departments, commissions, or common
carriers of underground, surface or overhead gas, oil, electrical, steam,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, and other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utility or municipal departments
or commissions or for the public health or safety or general welfare.
      RECEIVER. A television set, radio, communication device, or data input
device that utilizes the signals from the earth station.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, vacation, and recreational uses which is either
a structure mounted on an automobile or truck and designed to be used for human
habitation, including sleeping, or identified on the unit by the manufacturer
as a travel trailer or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, and is not more than eight feet in
width and not more than 36 feet in length.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A tract of land which has been developed with
all necessary facilities in accordance with a site development plan meeting all
legal requirements and which is for short term occupancy by recreational
vehicles only. It shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailers, pick-
up coaches, motor homes, camping trailers, and tents.
      RESEARCH LABORATORY STRUCTURE. A building for the accommodation of
scientific research facilities such as electronics, engineering, chemical,
medical, and similar architectural and landscape architectural design.
      RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL FARM ENTERPRISE.
         (a)   An operation or use which is inherent to or closely associated
with a farm or agriculture, but not including industrial grain elevators,
industrial mills, abattoirs, the manufacture of commercial fertilizer, and
similar operations which are of an industrial nature.
         (b)   Also, a RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL FARM ENTERPRISE is any similar
operation which may:
            1.   Cause stream pollution by the disposal of wastes discharged
into streams, thus endangering water supply and health;
            2.   Release odors to the atmosphere beyond the boundary of the
property, which may be strong and beyond the normal expectancy of a farm
operation;
            3.   Create any unusual or loud noises audible beyond the normal
expectancy of a farm operation;
            4.   Emit poisonous and injurious fumes and gases beyond the
boundaries of the property;
            5.   Cause the emission of smoke or particulate matter or cause any
undue vibration or excessive glare or heat beyond the boundaries of the
property; or
            6.   Because of the location of its facilities, influence adversely
the uses of adjacent properties, either existing or proposed.
      RESULTANT DISPLACEMENT. The maximum amount of motion in any direction. It
shall be determined by means of any three component (simultaneous) measuring
systems approved by the Plan Commission.
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The R-1 and R-2 zoning district classifications.
      RETIREMENT HOME OR HOME FOR THE AGED. Same as HEALTH FACILITY.
      RIDING STABLE. Any stable for the housing of horses which is operated for
remuneration, hire, sale, or stabling; or, any stable with a capacity of more
than four horses which is not related to the ordinary operation of a farm,
whether or not such stable is operated for remuneration, hire, sale, or
stabling.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land permanently dedicated to provide light,
air, and access.
      RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that
most neatly matches the light-obscuring capacity of smoke. The Ringelmann Chart
is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines, U.S. Department of Interior,
Information Circular 8333 (Revision of 1C 7718), May 1, 1967, or any adaption
thereof which has been approved. The Chart illustrates graduated shades of gray
for use in estimating smoke density. See OPACITY.
      ROADSIDE SALES STAND. A structure for the display and sale of
agricultural products, with no space for customers within the structure itself.
      ROADWAY WIDTH. The paved area of a street measured from back of curb to
back of curb.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building which is the primary residence of the owner and
in which rooms are provided, for compensation, to three or more, but not
exceeding 12 adult persons not related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the
owner; or which is not the owner’s residence and which is occupied in its
entirely by three or more adult persons not related by blood, marriage, or
adoption to each other. The term does not include a hotel, motel, or multi-
family dwelling.
      ROW HOUSE or TOWNHOUSE. A series of two or more dwelling units, arranged
side by side, separated by common walls between living areas, each unit having
one or more levels.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A solid waste disposal facility which may include an
incinerator, grinder, composting facility, or other State Environmental
Protection Agency approved facility other than an open dump or facility for
storage of contained liquid or semi-solid waste or gas, including, but not
limited to, environmentally harmful chemicals or radioactive materials of any
type. See also definition in I.C. 13-7-22-2(b).
      SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and/or the female breast, as well as portions of the
body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SERVANTS QUARTERS. Living quarters within a portion of a main building,
or in an accessory building located on the same lot with the main building,
used for servants solely employed on the premises with such quarters not being
rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
      SERVICE DRIVE, COMMERCIAL. A street other than a frontage street that
runs parallel or generally parallel to the frontal street and mainly located in
the space to the rear of the building(s).
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS or ADULT BUSINESS. A business or commercial
establishment that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purpose of specified sexual activities or the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or activities when one or more of the
persons is semi-nude or in a state of nudity, and as set forth as a special
exception use in this chapter. The definition of ADULT BUSINESS shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the State of Indiana
engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy. (Note: the Tri-
State Country Club, Inc., is a conforming use and is not included in the
definition of an ADULT BUSINESS as it currently exists.)
      SHOPPING CENTER.An architectural and functional grouping of retail
stores, generally oriented around a supermarket or department store, and
appropriate associated and accessory uses, which is the central feature of a
site plan or development plan composed of building areas, parking areas, access
streets, and circulatory ways for vehicles and pedestrians, landscape
reservations, and plantations and other land features appropriate for its
operation as a business enterprise, designed to serve residential neighborhoods
or communities and which conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      SIGN. See § 153.096 for definition.
      SLOW BURNING or INCOMBUSTIBLE. Materials which do not in themselves
constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will
not ignite, nor actively support, combustion during an exposure for five
minutes to a temperature of 1,200°F.
      SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a
municipal, commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant, or air pollution control facility exclusive of the treated
effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
      SMOKE. Small gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion,
consisting predominantly, but not exclusively of carbon, ash, and other
combustible material that form a visible plume in the air.
      SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann
number is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a
minute during the period of observation. Each reading is then multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed. The various products are then
added together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the
entire observation periods.
      SOIL MAP. A National Cooperative Soil Survey prepared by U.S.D.A. Soil
Conservation Service in cooperation with Purdue Experiment Station and the
Switzerland County Soil and Water Conservation District, showing soil types and
composition of their locations.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved material in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources
subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control act, as
amended (86 Stat. 880), or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as
defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
      SORORITY, FRATERNITY, or STUDENT COOPERATIVE. A building providing
sleeping and living accommodations for a number of usually unrelated persons
and usually associated with an educational institution.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. Permission for a conditional use of land which is
granted because certain conditions will be met. This chapter specifies what
these uses may be. See §
153.014 for definitions and requirements.
      SPECIAL SCHOOL. Any school which has as its primary purpose the
instruction, care, and rehabilitation of atypical or exceptional children or
adults such that the usual statutory educational requirements expressly or
implicitly do not apply.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttock, and female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and human male genitals in a
discernable turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
         (e)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (a) through (d) of this definition.
      STADIUM or COLISEUM. An amphitheater, large theater, or other such
facility used for public meetings, sports, exhibitions, and the like.
      STORAGE. The existence of any stock, vehicles, equipment, or materials
enclosed or unenclosed for a period of more than 72 hours and not for retail or
wholesale display or sale.
      STORAGE WAREHOUSE. An enclosed structure used as a place for storage of
goods or property.
      STORY. The portion of a building, included between the surface of any
floor and surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it shall be the
STORY.
      STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip, or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of such HALF-STORY.
      STREET. A right-of-way or thoroughfare, other than an alley, or place
dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property.
      STREET, FRONTAGE. A street that runs parallel to the frontal street and
located within the space between the building(s) and the frontal street.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or installed or portable, the use of
which requires a location on a parcel of land. It includes a movable structure
which is located on land which can be used for housing, business, commercial,
agricultural, or office purposes, either temporarily or permanently. STRUCTURE
also includes billboards, swimming pools, poles, pipelines, transmission lines,
tracks, and advertising signs, whether located on a rock, tree, separate
structure, or part of another STRUCTURE.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or
any substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of land parcels as defined in Ch. 81 of the
code of ordinances of Switzerland County, Indiana, the Town of Vevay, Indiana,
or the Town of Patriot, Indiana.
      SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool used only by the owner of the
pool and friends as an accessory use at a private residence and not for
monetary gain.
      THOROUGHFARE, ARTERIAL. A street designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain arterial streets may be classed as limited access highways to
which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and
access is denied to abutting properties.
      TOURIST HOME. A single-family building owned and occupied by a person
renting out not more than three rooms for overnight accommodation for
compensation to transient persons who do not stay for more than seven
consecutive days.
      TOWN. The Town of Vevay, Indiana or the Town of Patriot, Indiana.
      TOWNHOUSE. A two or two and one-half story dwelling, which may include a
basement, and which is normally an integral part of an apartment or multi-
family use as set forth in this chapter.
      TRADE or BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when
not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization; or a school conducted as a
business enterprise for leaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering, or
hair dressing, drafting or for the teaching of industrial or technical arts.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP or CONTROL OF AN ADULT BUSINESS. Includes any of
the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal
devise which transfers ownership or control of the business.
      TURNAROUND. A space on private property that permits the turning around
of any passenger vehicle without the necessity of using any public right-of-way
to turn around.
      USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure, or land for
service, benefit, or enjoyment by a person.
      USE, NONCONFORMING. See NONCONFORMING USE.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the Board in accordance with the terms of this chapter for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
      VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A facility for the practice of veterinary medicine
with or without provisions for the boarding of animals.
      VIBRATION. Oscillatory motion transmitted through the ground.
      VIEWING BOOTH. Any portion of an adult business which portion is:
         (a)   Partially enclosed;
         (b)   Has a floor area of less than 150 square feet; and
         (c)   Is designed for viewing films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
computer displays, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. Also, INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
         (a)   A triangular space at the street corner of a corner lot, free
from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights of three and 12 feet
above the established street grade.
         (b)   The street grade is measured at the intersection of the
centerlines of the intersecting street pavements, and the triangular space is
determined by a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15 feet
equidistant from the intersection of the property lines or the property lines
extended at the corner of the lot using each of the street right-of-way lines.
      WASTE PRODUCTS. Materials, which are not considered sludge or wastewater
under (327 I.A.C. 6), but are generated as waste in the production process and
may be disposed of through application upon or incorporation into the soil.
      WASTEWATER. Discarded pollutant-bearing water or other liquid waste which
is generated by industrial, municipal, or semi-public facilities.
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a building, which is open, unoccupied,
and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot or in the
case of a corner lot extending also along the length of the lot abutting the
side street, unoccupied other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp
posts, and similar appurtenances, the depth of which is the least distance
between the front lot line and the building line.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, between
the rear of the principal building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than
by accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required space,
and steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts, and similar structures, the
depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of
such principal building.
      YARD, SIDE.
         (a)   A yard between the building and side lot line, extending from
the front yard or from the front lot line where no front yard is required, to
the rear yard, unoccupied other than by architectural appurtenances projecting
not more than 24 inches from the building, or open or lattice-enclosed fire
escapes or fire-proof outside stairways, projecting not more than four feet,
and certain accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The width of the required side yard is measured horizontally at
90 degrees with the side lot line from the nearest point of the building.
      ZONE MAP. A map entitled “Zone Map, Switzerland County, and the Town of
Vevay, Indiana, and Patriot, Indiana”, dated 1996, and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.005  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Districts and designations. For zoning purposes, the territory within
the jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission is hereby classified and
divided into districts with the following names and designations.
District Designation Type of District
District Designation Type of District
A-1                  Prime Agriculture
A-2                  Agriculture
FR                   Forest Recreation
R-1                  Residence
R-2                  Multi-Family Residence
LB                   Local Business
PB                   Planned Business
GB                   General Business
I-1                  Enclosed Industrial
I-2                  Enclosed Industrial
MR                   Mineral Reserve
UD                   Unit Development Plan
HD                   Historic
FP                   Floodplain
 
   (B)   Zone map.
      (1)   The zone map, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be a part
of this chapter, shows the boundaries of the area covered by the districts.
Notations, references, indications, and other matters shown on the zone map are
as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described herein.
      (2)   The official zone map shall be identified with the signatures of
the following officials, followed by the date of adoption of the ordinance
comprising this chapter: the President of the County Board of Commissioners;
the President of the Vevay Town Council; and the President of the Patriot Town
Council.
      (3)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zone map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the official zone
map shall be located in the office of the County Auditor, and in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer of Vevay and Patriot, and shall be the final authority as
to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other
structures within the jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.006  ZONING MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and I.C. 36-7-4,
as amended, changes are made by the appropriate legislative body having
jurisdiction in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the zone map,
such changes shall be entered by the Executive Director on the zone map within
90 days after the amendment has been approved by the appropriate legislative
body.
   (B)   No change of any nature shall be made in the zone map, or matter shown
thereon, except in conformity with the amendment procedures set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.007  ZONING MAP REPLACEMENT.
   In the event that the zone map becomes damaged, lost, or difficult to
interpret because of the number of changes and  additions, the appropriate
legislative body having jurisdiction, may, by ordinance, adopt a new zone map
which shall supersede the prior zone map. The new zone map may correct drafting
or other errors or omissions in the prior map, but no such correction shall
have the effect of amending the original zone map or any subsequent amendment
thereof.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.008  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
zone map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Centerlines of streets and boundaries. Unless otherwise indicated, the
district boundary lines are the centerlines of streets, parkways, alleys, or
railroad rights-of-way, or such lines extended.
   (B)   Existing fines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
section lines, half-section and quarter-section lines, or town corporate limit
lines, or platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lines.
   (C)   Shore lines and waterways. Boundaries indicated as following shore
lines shall be the Indiana-Kentucky state line. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, creeks, lakes, or other
bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (D)   Use of scale on zone map. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above, shall be
so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the zone map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
   (E)   Board may determine. Where physical or cultural features existing on
the ground are at variance with those shown on the zone map, or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (F)   Vacations and relocations. The vacation or relocation of rights-of-way
and lot lines shall not affect the location of district boundaries; provided,
however, whenever any right-of-way is vacated by proper authority, the
districts adjoining each side of such vacation shall be extended automatically
to the center of such vacation.
   (G)   Lines splitting lots. Where a district boundary line divides a lot
which was in single ownership at the time of passage of the ordinance
comprising this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals, upon appeal, shall
interpret the applicable regulations for either portion of the lot not to
exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary line into the remaining portion of
the lot.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.009  APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations, and they shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Regulations apply. No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be
used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter
be erected, constructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Lot areas and yards may not be encroached upon. No building shall be
erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered in any manner which will
encroach upon, or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area per family, ground
floor area of dwellings, or lot coverage provisions established and specified
for the use and the district in which such building is located, or in any other
manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Yards are separate. No part of a yard, other open space, or off-street
parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for
the purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a
yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for
any other building.
   (D)   No reduction in yards. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage
of the ordinance comprising this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area
below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after
the effective date of the said ordinance shall meet at least the minimum
requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.010  PROCEDURE RELATING TO AREAS WHICH MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO ZONING.
   (A)   Any additional territory which becomes subject to the rules and
regulations of the County Area Plan Commission shall be automatically zoned A-
1 Prime Agriculture District unless otherwise changed by amendment to this
chapter; provided, that in the event of annexation of lands to the Town of
Vevay and the Town of Patriot, which are already within the jurisdiction of the
Plan Commission, the zoning classification existing at the time of annexation
shall remain unless changed by amendment procedures.
   (B)   Whenever any road, street, alley, public way, waterway, or any other
similar area is vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each side
of such area shall be extended automatically to the center of such vacation and
all area included in the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts. In the event of a partial
vacation, the adjoining district, or district nearest the portion vacated,
shall be extended automatically to include all of the vacated area.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.011  GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses established or placed into operation after the effective date of
the ordinance comprising this chapter shall comply with the following
performance standards, except as otherwise set forth in this chapter for
enclosed industrial uses, in the interest of protecting the public health,
safety, and welfare, and to lessen injury to property. No use shall exhibit
obnoxious characteristics to the extent that it constitutes a public nuisance
as further prescribed hereinafter. No use in existence on the effective date of
the said ordinance shall be so altered or modified to conflict with these
standards.
   (A)   Fire protection. Firefighting equipment and prevention measures
acceptable to the applicable Fire Department shall be readily available and
apparent when any activity involving the handling or storage of flammable or
explosive materials is conducted.
   (B)   Electrical disturbance. No use shall cause electrical disturbance
adversely affecting radios, televisions, or other equipment in the vicinity.
   (C)   Noise. No use shall produce noise in such a manner as to be
objectionable because of volume, frequency, intermittence, beat, shrillness, or
vibration. Said noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental; provided, however, public safety sirens and related
apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
   (D)   Vibration. No use shall cause vibrations or concussions detectable
beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
   (E)   Odor. No use shall emit across the lot lines malodorous gas or matter
in such quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along the lot lines.
   (F)   Air pollution. No use shall discharge across the lot lines fly ash,
dust, smoke, vapors, noxious, toxic, or corrosive matter, or other air
pollutants in such concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals,
vegetation, or property, or conflict with public air quality standards.
   (G)   Heat and glare. No use shall produce heat or glare in such a manner as
to be a nuisance or create a hazard perceptible from any point beyond the lot
lines.
   (H)   Water pollution. No use shall cause erosion or produce pollutants in
such quantity as to be detrimental to adjacent properties or conflict with
public water quality standards.
   (I)   Waste matter. No use shall amass within the lot or discharge beyond
the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in conflict with
applicable public health, safety, and welfare standards and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.012  NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES.
   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of the
passage of the ordinance comprising this chapter, may be continued although
such use does not conform to all the provisions of this chapter, subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   Extension. A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a building
provided the size of the structure is not increased. Existing dwellings in the
various business and industrial districts may be structurally altered and
expanded.
   (B)   Change. A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming
use of the same or greater restrictions, provided the size of the structure is
not increased.
   (C)   Nonconforming use. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a
conforming use or to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it
shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
   (D)   No building erected on nonconforming use premises. No building shall
be erected upon any premises devoted to a nonconforming use, except in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Illegal nonconforming use specifications. An illegal nonconforming use
shall not be validated by the adoption of the ordinance comprising this
chapter.
   (F)   Nonconforming use in FP Floodplain District. Any existing building,
structure, or use of land in the FP Floodplain District which is not in
conformance with this chapter constitutes a nonconforming use. All applications
to repair, extend, or enlarge a nonconforming use in the FP Floodplain District
shall be forwarded to Natural Resources for review and comment. All terms and
conditions imposed by Natural Resources shall be incorporated into the issuance
of any resulting improvement location permit or building permit issued by the
Executive Director.
   (G)   Nonconformance exemptions. A building nonconforming only as to height,
lot area, or yard requirements may be altered or extended; provided, that any
extension meets all of the height, yard, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (H)   Intermittent use. The casual, intermittent, temporary, or illegal use
of land, buildings, or premises shall not be sufficient to establish the
existence of a nonconforming use and the existence of a nonconforming use on
part of a lot or tract shall not be construed to establish a nonconforming use
on the entire lot or tract.
   (I)   Existence of a nonconforming use. In circumstances where there is
question whether or not a nonconforming use exists, it shall be considered a
question of fact and shall be decided by the Board following public notice and
a public hearing in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Board.
   (J)   Temporary nonconforming use. The Board may authorize, by written
permit, in a district permitting residential use, for a period of not more than
one year from the date of such permit, a temporary building for business or
industrial use incidental to the residential construction and development of
said district. See §
153.067.
   (K)   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. In the event that a nonconforming
use of any building or premises is discontinued for a period of at least one
year, the use of the same shall hereafter conform to the uses permitted in the
district in which it is located, and provided further, that any nonconforming
dwelling which may be removed from a lot, shall relocate on another lot only in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Damage to nonconforming use.
      (1)   If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is
damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% or more of its
replacement value at that time, the building or other structure can be rebuilt
or used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with the
provisions of the district in which it is located. In the event the damage or
destruction is less than 50% of its replacement value, based upon prevailing
costs, the building may then be restored to its original condition and the
occupancy or use of such building may be continued which existed at the time of
such partial destruction. It shall be the decision of the Executive Director as
to percentage determinations.
      (2)   In either event, restoration or repair of the building or other
structure must be started within a period of six months from the date of damage
or destruction and diligently pursued to completion.
   (M)   Honoring previous permits. Nothing herein contained shall require any
change in the plans for the construction or designated use of a building for
which an improvement location permit or a building permit has been heretofore
issued, and the actual construction of which has been diligently pursued within
90 days of the date of such permit, and which entire building shall be
completed according to such plans filed within three years of such permit.
ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the erection of construction
materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner.
   (N)   Buildings may be made safe. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of any building
declared unsafe by proper authority.
   (O)   Nonconforming use resulting from amendment. These provisions apply in
the same manner to a use which may become a nonconforming use as a result of an
amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.013  NONCONFORMING LOT AREAS AND WIDTHS.
   A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot in any district in which
single-family dwellings are permitted if the lot was a single parcel included
in a subdivision of record at the time of passage of the ordinance comprising
this chapter, even though the lot does not have the minimum lot width or the
minimum lot area specified for the district; provided, that the lot size and
lot width meet the minimum standards of the County Health Department, and
provided further, that the width of the lot, as measured, is at least 75% of
that required by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.014  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Definition and basis of approval. Special exceptions are uses publicly
or municipally operated and those uses traditionally affected with a public
interest and those uses entirely private in character but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property and public facilities.
      (1)   A special exception or any use not otherwise set forth in this
chapter that fits the definition set forth in this division (A), may be
approved in zones as specified in this section. The use approved shall be
subject to any regulations or requirements imposed as a part of the special
exception, in addition or in place of the other regulations or requirements of
this chapter. The provisions of a special exception shall replace and supersede
the provisions of the base zone, effective upon either construction of any
facilities approved as a part of the special exception or upon beginning of
operation of the use or uses specified, whichever occurs first. The provisions
shall remain in effect until such time as the special exemption use ceases to
operate. Immediately prior to reuse of the structures or facilities used for
the special exception, the provisions of the special exception shall become
invalid and the regulations and requirements of the base zone shall again be in
effect.
      (2)   Any significant changes (as determined by the Board) in the use of
a special exception or any construction of new facilities or structures, or
major additions to existing facilities or structures (as determined by the
Board) shall be subject to approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals, using the
same process as was used for the original approval.
   (B)   Procedure for approval. Upon receipt of an application for a special
exception, the Executive Director shall refer the application to the
Commission, and if the President of the Commission decides to set a hearing on
the application within five days after receipt thereof, the Commission may
forward a recommendation to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Plan Commission
may determine if the proposed special exception is compatible with the county
comprehensive plan and may or may not make recommendations to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The Executive Director shall send the application to the Board
for public hearing and final approval or denial of the petition.
      (1)   (a)   Upon such hearings, if the Commission/Board finds that:
            1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare;
            2.   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood;
            3.   The establishment of the special exception will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
            4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other
necessary facilities have been or are being provided; and
            5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress or egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets.
         (b)   The Board shall direct the Executive Director to issue an
improvement location permit for such special exception; otherwise, the Board
shall direct the Executive Director to reject the application. The findings of
the Board and its order to the Executive Director shall be in writing.
      (2)   (a)   The Board may impose additional conditions to assure that the
special exceptions will conform to the intent of this chapter.
         (b)   These additional conditions may include, but are not limited to,
the provisions of the following:
            1.   Off-street parking and loading areas, with particular
attention to the economic, noise, glare, or odor effects of the special
exception on adjoining properties and properties generally in the district;
            2.   Refuse and service areas;
            3.   Special screening and buffering with reference to type,
dimensions, and character;
            4.   Signs and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare,
traffic, safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with properties
in the district;
            5.   Additional setback distances, yards, and other open space;
            6.   General compatibility with adjoining properties, with
reference to site development standards designed for their mutual protection
and the environmental harmony of the district;
            7.   A development plan in the event such a plan is not already
required for a particular special exception set forth in division (E) below, or
for a use determined by the Board to be a special exception which is not
otherwise set forth in this chapter (see division (A)(1) above); and
            8.   The Executive Director may require a land survey if it
determines it is necessary for the proper identification of the boundaries of
the special exception.
      (3)   If the nature of the special exception involves more than one of
those listed, the applicant may apply for an improvement location permit for
the special exceptions which most closely relates to the primary use; provided,
that the requirements of the related uses will be met.
      (4)   Any person, to whom is issued an improvement location permit for a
special exception, who fails to commence construction within 12 months after
such permit is issued, or who fails to carry to completion the total
development plan thereof within three years after such construction is begun,
whichever is later, or who fails to conform to the provisions of the
development plan and supporting data finally approved by the Board and upon the
basis of which such improvement location permit was issued, may be required by
the Board upon its own motion, and shall be required by the Board upon written
petition of any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved, to show cause why
such approval should not be withdrawn and such improvement location permit
revoked.
      (5)   The holder of an improvement location permit for a special
exception may apply to the Board at any time for an alteration, change,
amendment, or extension of the application or development plan upon which such
permit was based.
         (a)   Upon receipt of such application, the Board shall proceed as in
the case of original applications for an improvement location permit for a
special exception.
         (b)   In the event the Board shall approve and order such application
or development plan changed, altered, amended, or extended, it shall notify the
Executive Director who shall issue an amended improvement location permit
accordingly.
   (C)   Existing use may be a conforming use. An existing use which is listed
herein as a special exception, and which is located in a district in which such
special exception may be permitted, is a conforming use, provided such use
meets the minimum lot area requirements set forth herein. Any expansion of such
special exception involving the enlargement of a building, structure, and land
area devoted to such use, shall be subject to the requirements and procedures
described in this section.
   (D)   Temporary certificates. Whenever a special exception has been approved
and is of such a nature that the applicant desires to complete the structure
and improvements shown in the development plan by stages, the applicant may
make application for a temporary certificate of occupancy for any portion of
the plan that has been completed.
   (E)   Home occupations, office in the home, and adult business uses. Home
occupations and office in the home, are special exceptions and may be permitted
by the Board of Zoning Appeals in any district in accordance with the
requirements set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above, and the additional
requirements for these uses set forth in §
153.023, “additional special exceptions”. The following sexually-oriented
business or adult business uses: adult arcade including peep shows; adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store; adult cabaret; adult
dance studio; adult hotel or motel; adult motion picture theater (indoor or
outdoor); adult theaters; and massage parlors are also special exceptions and
may be permitted in the GB General Business District by the Board in accordance
with the requirements set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above, and in
accordance with the additional requirements for sexually-oriented business set
forth in §
153.023, “additional special exceptions”.
   (F)   Special exceptions and districts where they may be permitted.
      (1)   The following uses shall require approval as special exceptions.
      (2)   They shall be subject to the specific conditions imposed and
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Special Exception District(s) In Which Use May Be Permitted
Special Exception                       District(s) In Which Use May Be
                                        Permitted
Advertising sign or billboard           LB, PB, GB, I-1, and I-2
Airport                                 A-1, A-2, FR, MR, I-1, and I-2
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquified
fertilizers, storage, and distribution  A-1, A-2, FR, MR, I-1, and I-2
(commercial)
Artificial lake of three or more acres  All
Assembly halls and grounds              A-2, R-2, LB, PB, GB, I-1, and I-2
Auction arena or sales yard (excluding  A-2, PB, and GB
livestock)
Bed and breakfast                       R-2, LB, PB, and GB
Bottled gas storage and distribution    A-2, I-1, and I-2
yard
Building material supply yard (open)    GB, I-1, and I-2
Bulk fuel storage or petroleum tank     I-1 and I-2
farm (commercial)
Cemetery or crematory                   All
Charitable institutions                 A-2, R-2, LB, PB, and GB
Clinic                                  LB, PB, and GB
College or university building          A-2, R-2, LB, PB, and GB
Commercial greenhouse                   A-1, A-2, FR, LB, PB, and GB
Contractor’s storage yard             A-2, GB, and I-1
Day care center or child development    LB, PB, GB, and I-2
(1) (Large) family day care home        R-2, LB, PB, and GB
                                        
(2) (Small) family day care home        A-1, A-2, FR, R-1, R-2, MR, LB, PB, and
                                        GB
Farm implement (machinery) sales and    LB, PB, GB, and I-2
service area or building (new or used)
Filling station, automobile car wash,   LB, PB, GB, and I-1
and roadside restaurant
Game preserves                          A-1, A-2, FR, MR, and FP
Golf course or country club             All
Golf driving range                      A-2, PB, and I-2
Grain elevators and related uses        A-1, A-2, FR, MR, PB, I-1, and I-2
Health facility, including nursing      R-2, LB, PB, and GB
homes and retirement homes
Heliport                                All except R-1 and R-2
Hospital                                All except A-1, FR, MR, I-1, and I-2
Junk yard                               I-1 and I-2
Kennel                                  A-1, A-2, FR, MR, I-1, and I-2
Manufacturing, storage, or use of       I-1 and I-2
explosives
Mining operation (i.e., sand or gravel
pit, borrow pit, topsoil removal, and   A-1, A-2, FR, MR, I-2, and FP
storage areas)
Mobile home park                        A-2, FR, LB, PB, and GB
Multi-family dwelling or apartment
designed for or occupied by more than   R-2, LB, PB, and GB
four families
Outdoor commercial recreational         A-2, FR, MR, PB, GB, I-1, I-2, and FP
enterprise
Outdoor theater                         A-2, PB, and GB
Penal or correctional institution       A-2, GB, I-1, and I-2
Planned business use in the PB District PB
Private club or lodge which is of a     A-I, A-2, FR, and MR
noncommercial character
Private recreational development (i.e.,
picnic grounds, fraternal               A-2, R-2, LB, PB, GB, and FP
organizations, and the like)
Produce stands, seasonal                All except LB, PB, and GB
Produce stands, year round              A-1, A-2, FR, and MR
Public camp                             A-2, FR, MR, and FP
Public or commercial sanitary fill or   A-1, A-2, FR, MR, I-I, and I-2
garbage disposal plant
Public or employee parking area         A-2 and R-2
Public park or public recreational      All
facilities
Public water wells, water stations,
filtration plant, reservoirs and        All
storage tanks
Railroad or other mass transportation
rights-of-way and trackage, including
passenger stations, shelter stations,   All, except I-1 and I-2
and layover areas for transit vehicles,
and off-street parking facilities
Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl   A-1, A-2, FR, MR, GB, I-1, and I-2
or animals (commercial) except kennels
Recreational vehicle park               A-2, FR, MR, and I-2
Restricted commercial farm enterprises  A-1, A-2, FR, MR, and I-2
(including confined feeding operations)
Riding stable                           A-1, A-2, FR, MR, PB, and I-1
Sales barn for livestock (resale)       A-1, A2, and I-1
Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge      A-1, A-2, FP, and MR
Sewage treatment facility (primary use) All, except R-1 and R-2
Shooting range, outdoor                 A-1, A-2, FR, MR, and FP
Slaughterhouse with holding pens        A-2, I-1, and I-2
Special schools                         R-2, LB, PB, GB, I-I, and I-2
Stadium, coliseum, athletic field       All, except A-1
Storage of disabled vehicles, temporary GB and I-1
Studio, business (art, interior         R-2
decorating, music, and the like)
Telephone exchange or public utility    A-1, A-2, FR, MR, and I-2
substation
Transmission lines for gas, oil, all
electricity or other utilities (major   All
lines)
Transmission (ratio, tv, and the like); All
miscellaneous tower(s)
Veterinary hospital for small animals   A-2
Wholesale produce terminal, or truck    GB, I-1, and I-2
freight terminal
 
   (G)   Other requirements for special exceptions. The following are specific
requirements for special exceptions (the special exceptions are referred to by
name and number indicated in division (E) above):
      (1)   Advertising sign or billboard.
         (a)   Development plan. The development plan shall be submitted with
the application.
         (b)   Other requirements. All relative requirements set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104 shall be observed.
      (2)   Airport or heliport.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. 80 acres for airport;
         (b)   Minimum distance from residential district or use. 400 feet:
         (c)   Fence. Six-foot wire mesh where accessible to public;
         (d)   Screen planting. Six-feet height by six-feet width where
abutting residential use; light screen, effective at all times of the year;
         (e)   Parking. One per employee, plus one per three seats in waiting
room;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application;
         (g)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (h)   Height. 35 feet or as required by appropriate state or federal
agency; and
         (i)   Approval. Prior F.A.A. and state approval.
      (3)   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquified fertilizers; storage and
distribution (commercial).
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 80;
            2.   Side (each). 80; and
            3.   Rear. 80.
         (b)   Minimum distance of parking area or loading berth from
residential district or use. 150 feet;
         (c)   Fence. Six-foot wire mesh fence where accessible to public;
         (d)   Drainage. Drainage shall be controlled so that liquified
fertilizers shall not drain off the premises;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (f)   Federal regulations. Federal regulations for primary and
secondary storage and containment of fertilizers and pesticides shall be
observed.
      (4)   Artificial lake of three or more acres.
         (a)   Fence. Six-foot wire mesh fence where accessible to public;
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (c)   Approval required. Approval by natural resources is required.
      (5)   Assembly halls and grounds.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One acre;
         (b)   Yards.
            1.   Minimum front yards. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 20; and
            3.   Rear. 80.
         (c)   Parking. As determined by the Board. Determination shall be
based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
         (d)   Noise. Noise should be confined to the premises;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (f)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (g)   Security. Security (whenever necessary) shall be furnished by
applicant; and
         (g)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (6)   Auction arena or sales yard (excluding livestock).
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Two acres.
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 50 feet;
            2.   Side (each). 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 40 feet.
         (c)   Parking space. One per two employees, plus one per each 400
square feet of display, sales, and auction area.
         (d)   Noise. Noise shall be confined to the premises;
         (e)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (g)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (h)   Maximum height of structure. 35 feet.
      (7)   Bed and breakfast.
         (a)   Intent. To provide temporary travelers’ accommodations and
breakfast, for a fee, on a daily or weekly room rental basis, as an accessory
use in an existing structure designed for and occupied as a single-family
residence;
         (b)   Type of structure. The use shall be allowed only in older
residential structures which are recognized as architecturally, historically,
or culturally significant, and which, through renovation and use as a bed and
breakfast, will contribute significantly to the ambiance, character, or
economic revitalization of a neighborhood. The exterior appearance of the
structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and no
exterior alterations, other than those necessary to ensure the safety of the
structure, shall be made to any building for the purpose of providing a bed and
breakfast;
         (c)   Spacing requirement. No rooming house, boarding house, or bed
and breakfast may be located within 400 feet of the facility. The 400-foot
distance shall be measured in a straight line connecting the closest points on
the lot lines and without regard for intervening structures;
         (d)   Outward modifications. Minimal outward modification of the
structure or grounds may be made only if such changes are compatible with the
character of the area or neighborhood and the intent of the zoning district in
which it is located;
         (e)   Intensity of use. The bed and breakfast use should remain
incidental to the primary residential use of the property which will allow
reconversion back to a single-family residential use;
         (f)   Number of bedrooms. A maximum of five lodging or bedrooms shall
be made available for rent, a bed and breakfast home having more than five
bedrooms for rent may be approved if the home is designated as a historic
landmark. There must be at least 500 square feet of gross (interior) floor area
for each rental unit. The potential rental units would be determined by
dividing the gross floor area of the structure by 500 square feet;
         (g)   Interior design modifications. Any interior modification shall
be described in the application and shall not be injurious to the historic
character of the structure, woodwork, stairways, fireplaces, windows and doors,
cornices, festoons, moldings, chair rails, or light fixtures. Rooms used for
sleeping shall be part of the primary residential structure, and shall not have
been specifically constructed or remodeled for rental purposes. The
architectural integrity and arrangement of the existing interior spaces must be
maintained, and the number of guest rooms shall not be increased, except as may
be required to meet health, safety, and sanitation requirements;
         (h)   Preparation of food. The kitchens in small bed and breakfasts
generally are not built to commercial kitchen standards. Food service should be
limited to breakfast for the guests. The only meal to be provided to guests
shall be breakfast, and it shall only be served to guests taking lodging in the
facility. No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within
any bedroom made available for rent. Individual rooms that are rented shall not
contain cooking facilities;
         (i)   Property owners must reside. The owner or lessee of the property
shall operate the bed and breakfast facility and reside in the home;
         (j)   Fourteen-day rental limit. Room rentals to families or
individuals shall not exceed 14 consecutive days. Only short-term lodging may
be provided. Monthly rentals shall be prohibited;
         (k)   Detrimental conditions not permitted. The proposed use of the
property will not create noise, light, or traffic conditions detrimental to the
neighboring residents, and no receptions, private parties or activities for
which a fee is paid shall be permitted;
         (l)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided by the resident
owner. One off-street parking space for every two guests in addition to the
parking required for single-family occupancy;
         (m)   Signage. Signage shall be limited to one (on-premises) wall sign
not to exceed three square feet of sign area. Sign wording shall consist of the
name of the occupant or establishment located on premises, and/or description
of service rendered. “Establishment” shall be referred to as a “bed and
breakfast” or “bed and breakfast inn”;
         (n)   License. License shall be obtained as required by law; and
         (o)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (8)   Gas storage and distribution.
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 300;
            2.   Side (each). 300; and
            3.   Rear. 300.
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (c)   Safety. All laws and care shall be observed by the applicant.
      (9)   Building material supply yard (open).
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 80;
            2.   Side (each). 100; and
            3.   Rear. 100.
         (b)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (d)   Screening. Building materials and vehicles shall be screened or
located in such a manner so that they will not be visible from the frontal
street or adjacent residentially used or zoned property;
         (e)   Parking. One per two employees, plus one per vehicle operated by
establishment, plus one per 800 square feet of storage area; and
         (f)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (10)   Bulk fuel storage or petroleum tank farm (commercial).
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 80;
            2.   Side (each). 100; and
            3.   Rear: 100.
         (b)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (d)   Safety. All laws and care shall be observed by applicant.
      (11)   Cemetery or crematory.
         (a)   Minimum area. Ten acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear: 40 feet.
         (c)   Landscape plan. Plan development to be submitted with the
application (may be submitted with development plan);
         (d)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by six-foot width where
abutting residential use; effective at all times of year;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (f)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (g)   Parking. One per each two employees, plus one per each five
acres of area; and
         (h)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (12)   Charitable institution.
         (a)   Generally. Same as required in district;
         (b)   Minimum yards. Same as required in district;
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (d)   Parking. As determined by the Board. The determination shall be
based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of use
would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements.
      (13)   Clinic.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. 15,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 10 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 30 feet.
         (c)   Screen planting. Six foot height by three-foot width where
abutting residential use. Effective at all times of year;
         (d)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by six-foot width where
abutting residential use. Effective at all times of year;
         (e)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street (other than an
emergency entrance);
         (f)   Parking. One per two employees, plus three per doctor;
         (g)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 45 feet.
      (14)   College or university building.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (b)   Parking. One per three students or staff members;
      (15)   Commercial greenhouse.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. 25,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100;
            2.   Side (each). 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 40 feet.
         (c)   Parking areas and loading. Berth minimum distance from
residential district or use.
50 feet;
         (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street; and
         (e)   Confined feeding operations. For confined feeding operation, see
division (G)(50), “restricted commercial farm enterprise (including confined
feeding operations_.
      (16)   Contractor’s storage yard. Same requirements as division (G)(9)
above, “building material supply yard (open)”;
      (17)   Day care center or child development.
         (a)   Minimum lot area.
            1.   One hundred square feet of play area provided on same lot as
use for each child in attendance; and
            2.   Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor space per session
per child shall be provided, also.
         (b)   Open/recreational space.
            1.   Outdoor play area shall be grassed and enclosed by a 42-inch
high chain-link fence. Any entry gate shall be securely fastened.
            2.   Outdoor play areas shall be adequately separated from
vehicular circulation and parking safely.
         (c)   General safety.
            1.   No portion of a day care center site may be located within 300
feet of gasoline pumps or underground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage area for explosive materials.
            2.   Garages shall not be used as designated play areas.
         (d)   Parking. One space for each adult attendant, plus two additional
spaces;
         (e)   General standards.
            1.   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines.
            2.   Hours of operation may be restricted by the Board.
         (f)   Traffic standards.
            1.   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for picking
up and dropping off children.
            2.    Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only be
permitted on the driveway, approved parking area, or directly in front of the
facility.
         (g)   License required. Applicant must obtain day care center license
from the State Department of Public Welfare.
      (18)   Day care homes.
         (a)   Large family day care home.
            1. Minimum area.
               a.   One hundred quare feet of outdoor play area provided on
same lot as use for each child in attendance; and
               b.   Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor space per
session per child shall be provided, also.
            2.   Open/recreational space.
               a.   Outdoor play area shall be grassed and enclosed by a 42-
inch high chain-link fence, any entry gate shall be securely fastened.
               b.   Outdoor play areas shall be adequately separated from
vehicular circulation and parking safety.
            3.   General safety.
               a.   No portion of a day care center site may be located within
300 feet of gasoline pumps or under-ground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage area for explosive materials.
               b.   Garages shall not be used as designated play areas.
            4.   Parking. One space for each two adult attendants, plus two
additional spaces;
            5.   General standards.
               a.   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines.
               b.   Hours of operation may be restricted by Plan Commission.
            6.   Traffic standards.
               a.   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for
picking up and dropping off children.
               b.   Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only
be permitted on the driveway, approved parking area, or directly in front of
the facility.
            7.   Spacing requirements. No facility shall be located closer than
600 feet to another large family day care home;
            8.   Signs. One sign, not exceeding four square feet and five feet
in height may be used to identify the center;
            9.   No sales. No goods, chattel, wares, or merchandise offered for
sale therein, except in the LB, PB, and GB Districts; and
            10.   License required. The applicant must obtain day care home
license from the State Department of Public Welfare.
         (b)   Small day care home.
            1.   Minimum area.
               a.   One hundred square feet of outdoor play area provided on
same lot as use for each child in attendance; and
               b.   Thirty-five square feet of suitable indoor space per
session per child shall be provided, also.
            2.   Open/recreational space.
               a.   Outdoor play areas shall be grassed and enclosed by a 42-
inch high chain-link fence. Any entry gate shall be securely fastened.
               b.   Outdoor play areas cannot be closer than ten feet to any
adjoining property.
            3.   General safety.
               a.   No portion of a day care center site may be located within
300 feet of gasoline pumps or under-ground gasoline storage tanks, or any other
storage area for explosive materials.
               b.   Garages shall not be used as designated play areas.
            4.   Parking. One space for each adult attendant, plus two
additional spaces;
            5.   General standards.
               a.   No noise shall be audible beyond the lot lines.
               b.   Hours of operation may be restricted by Plan Commission.
            6.   Traffic standards.
               a.   Day care centers shall create no unsafe conditions for
picking up and dropping off children.
               b.   Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only
be permitted on the driveway, approved parking area, or directly in front of
the facility.
            7.   Spacing requirements. No facility shall be located closer than
600 feet to another large family day care home;
            8.   Signs. One sign, not exceeding four square feet and five feet
in height may be used to identify the center;
            9.   No sales. No goods, chattel, wares, or merchandise offered for
sale therein, except in the LB, PB, and GB Districts; and
            10.   License required. The applicant must obtain day care home
license from the State Department of Public Welfare.
      (19)   Farm implement (machinery) sales and service area or building (new
or used).
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Dead storage. No dead storage, repair work, or dismantling on
the lot;
         (c)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
         (d)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required;
         (e)   Special setback requirements. Used machinery may be placed
temporarily in the rear of the building line in the sales lot; provided, that
new machinery may be placed temporarily in front of the building line in the PB
District, but not closer than 20 feet to the front lot fine in the PB and I-
2 Districts; and
         (f)   Parking. One per two employees, plus one per vehicle operated by
the establishment, plus one per 1,000 square feet of display and sales area.
      (20)   Filling station, automobile car wash, and roadside restaurant.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One-half acre;
         (b)   Minimum yards. Same as local business use in respective district
except for PB District;
         (c)   Landscape plan. Landscape plan in which filling station is
proposed to be located. Plan of landscape development to be submitted with the
application (may be combined with development plan);
         (d)   Fence. Four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
         (e)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by six-foot width; where
abutting residential use: tight screen, effective at all times of the year;
         (f)   Parking spaces. As determined by the Board, the determination
shall be based on the expected number of parking spaces the particular type of
use would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (i)   Dead storage. No sales, dead storage, repair work, or
dismantling on the lot; and
         (j)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (21)   Game preserve.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted; and
         (b)   Fence. Adequate wire mesh fence where accessible to public.
      (22)   Golf course or country club.
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 40; and
            3.   Rear. 40.
         (b)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district of
use. 20 feet;
         (c)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by six-foot width where
abutting residential use, effective at all times of the year; or an alternative
planting, acceptable to the Board;
         (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (e)   Setback from interior drives. 40 feet;
         (f)   Parking spaces. 30;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (i)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required; and
         (j)   Height. Maximum height of structure 35 feet.
      (23)   Golf driving range. Same as division (G)(22) above, “golf course
or country club”, except number of parking spaces shall be 20;
      (24)   Grain elevators and related uses.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Noise. Noise shall be confined to the limits set forth in
section §
153.048(C)(10); and
         (c)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 135 feet.
      (25)   Health facility, including nursing homes and retirement homes.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. 40,000 square feet, but not less than 1,000
square feet per person cared-for occupant;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
               1.   In the PB District.
                  a.   Front. 80 feet;
                  b.   Side. 40 feet; and
                  c.   Rear. 40 feet.
               2.   In other districts. Same as requirements for single-family
dwelling.
         (c)   Landscape plan. Plan to landscape development to be submitted
with the application (may be combined with development plan);
         (d)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
six-foot width where abutting residential use; tight screen, effective at all
times;
         (e)   Parking spaces. One per each five patients or occupants, plus
one per each staff member or supervisor doctor, plus one per each three
employees;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (g)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
         (h)   State approval required. Facility must be licensed by the State
Board of Health in accordance with I.C. 16-10-2 (some types of facilities do
not require licensure); and
         (i)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (26)   Heliport.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One acre;
         (b)   Spacing. Use permitted not closer than 200 feet to a residential
use;
         (c)   Fence. Four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
         (d)   Parking spaces. One per employee, plus one per three seats in
waiting room;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (f)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (g)   Height. As required by appropriate state or federal agency.
      (27)   Hospital.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Three acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 40;
            2.   Side (each). 40; and
            3.   Rear: 40 (abutting residential use).
            (c)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or
use. 50 feet;
            (d)   Minimum distance of loading berth from residence district or
use;
            (e)   Parking spaces. One per four bed, plus one per doctor, plus
one per three employees on largest shift, plus one per hospital vehicle;
            (f)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
            (g)   Height. 70 feet; and
            (h)   Adequacy of sewer. Approval required.
      (28)   Junk yard.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 50;
            2.   Side. 40; and
            3.   Rear: 40.
         (c)   Spacing. Use permitted not closer than 500 feet to a residential
use;
         (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (e)   Fence. Solid wall or solid painted fence eight feet high, except
along railroad right-of-way or eight-foot wire mesh fence covered and
maintained with thick ivy growth;
         (f)   Parking spaces. One per two employees;
         (g)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (h)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
      (29)   Kennel.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Two acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 150;
            2.   Side (each). 150; and
            3.   Rear. 150.
      (c)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by six-
foot width where abutting residential use; effective at all times of the year;
      (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
      (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
      (f)   Noise. Use shall be operated in a manner to ensure minimum noise
beyond the premises;
      (g)   Parking. One per two employees, plus one per 500 square feet of
front area used in a waiting room; plus one per five boarder animals, based
upon maximum number of animals; and
      (h)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
      (30)   Manufacturing, storage, or use of explosives.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application if use involves manufacturing or storage of explosives; and
         (b)   Approval. Approval of Board of County Commissioners or
respective Town Council required.
      (31)   Mining operation (i.e., sand or gravel pit, quarry, borrow pit,
topsoil removal, and storage areas).
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 150;
            2.   Side (each). 150; and
            3.   Rear. 150.
         (b)   Minimum distance from residence district or use. 300 feet;
         (c)   Fence. Six-foot woven wire, fence where accessible to public;
         (d)   Screen planting. Screen planting six-foot height by three-foot
width where abutting residential use; effective at all times of the year;
         (e)   Entrance. No more than one entrance from street;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (g)   Special. See I.C. 35-7-4-1103; miscellaneous provisions; use and
alienation of mineral resources and forest outside urban areas.
      (32)   Mobile home park.
         (a)   State requirements. All state requirements shall be observed
(see I.C. 13-7-1, 410 I.A.C. 6-6 and 327 I.A.C. 8-81 for requirements) in
addition to the State Department of Health requirements, the requirements
listed below shall be adhered to;
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (c)   Area. A mobile home park shall have an area of not less than
five acres;
         (d)   Soil. The condition of the soil and ground water level of the
proposed park site shall meet the criteria promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service. (See §
153.080(T)). The site shall not be subject to unpredictable or sudden flooding,
subsidence, or erosion. Exposed ground surfaces shall be paved, covered with
stone screenings, or other solid material, or protected with a vegetative
growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating
objectionable dust. Exposed ground surfaces shall be graded and equipped to
drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner;
         (e)   Smoke, noise, and odor. The proposed site shall not be exposed
to objectionable smoke, noise, odor, or other adverse influences;
         (f)   Screening. A dense planting screen not less than 12 feet high
and six feet wide shall be located and effectively maintained at all times
along all boundary lines, except at established entrances and exits serving the
park. A basket weave or similar type fence or brick or stone wall may be
permitted by the Board instead of a planting screen. The Board may waive any
part of these screening requirements temporarily or permanently if adequate
screening already exists or if the topography or other conditions so warrant;
         (g)   Use. No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential
purposes, except such uses that may be for the benefit of and well-being of
park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park; provided,
however, that this shall not prohibit the sale of a mobile home located on a
mobile home slab on a mobile home lot and connected to the appropriate
utilities; provided further, however, that a mobile home sales business may be
allowed in the mobile home park upon a showing that said business, and its
location, is in the best interest of the public health, safety, morals, and
general welfare, as determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         (h)   Side, rear, and front yards. The tract of land for the proposed
park shall have two side yards, each having a minimum of 30 feet in width, a
rear yard having a minimum of 30 feet in depth, and a front yard having a
minimum of 60 feet in depth;
         (i)   Separation. Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and
from all other buildings and structures by at least 20 feet. An accessory
structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinets, carport, windbreak, and
porch having a floor area exceeding 25 square feet and an opaque roof or top,
shall be considered to be part of the mobile home;
         (j)   Mobile home lot area and width. Each mobile home lot shall
contain a minimum of 4,000 square feet in area, and shall be at least 40 feet
in width;
         (k)   Parking. Each mobile home lot shall contain two automobile
parking areas, each of which has minimum dimensions of ten feet in width by 20
feet in length;
         (l)   Mobile home slab. Each mobile home lot shall contain a mobile
home slab. The area of the slab shall be improved to provide adequate support
for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home so that it is secure against
uplift, sliding, rotation, and overturning. The slab shall be constructed so
that it will not heave, shift, or settle unevenly under the weight of the
mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration, or other
forces. The slab shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs such as cast-in
place concrete “dead men”, eyelets imbedded in concrete foundation or runways,
screw augers, arrowhead anchors, or other devices securing the stability of the
mobile home. Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of
the slab and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength of 2,800
pounds;
         (m)   Distance required. There shall be a distance of at least 15 feet
between the mobile home slab and an abutting interior park drive;
         (n)   Recreation area. Each park shall provide a recreational area or
areas equal in size to at least 8% of the area of the park. Streets, parking
areas, and park service facility areas shall not be included in the required
recreational area;
         (o)   Streets and drives. A mobile home park shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting streets or roads to each
mobile home lot. Such access shall be provided by interior private streets or
driveways or other means approved by the Board. No direct access from a front
or side street to a mobile home lot shall be permitted, except by approved
entrances and exits. The park entrance shall be designed to minimize congestion
and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. No parking
shall be allowed on the park entrance driveway for a distance of 100 feet from
its point of beginning, unless the park entrance drive has a minimum width of
36 feet. Interior driveways, except minor driveways, shall have a minimum width
of 22 feet, measured from back to back of curb if provided. Minor driveways
shall have a minimum width of ten feet. Minor driveways having mobile homes
abutting on both sides are not acceptable unless the said minor driveways are
less than 500 feet long. Minor driveways serving more than 15 mobile homes are
unacceptable. Dead-end driveways shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length, and
shall be terminated at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside
roadway diameter of at least 60 feet; and
         (p)   Interior driveway construction and design standards.
            1.   Pavements. All driveways shall be provided with a smooth,
hard, and dense surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal
use and weather conditions. Pavements edges shall be protected to prevent
raveling of the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Driveway
surfaces shall be maintained so as to be free of cracks, holes, and other
hazards;
            2.   Grades. Grades of all driveways shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but shall not have a grade in excess of 8%;
provided, however, that short runs having a maximum grade of 12% may be
permitted if traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving, adequate leveling
areas, and avoidance of lateral curves; and
            3.   Intersections. Within 100 feet of an intersection, streets
shall be at approximately right angles. A distance of at least 150 feet shall
be maintained between centerlines of offset intersections streets.
Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
      (33)   Multi-family dwelling or apartment designed for or occupied by
more than four families.
         (a)   Environmental impact statement. An impact analysis evaluating
the expected economic, social, and fiscal impact on the surroundings or on the
community, demonstrating that the proposed development will not adversely
affect governmental financial conditions nor the community’s human- made or
natural environment;
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (c)   Lot and yard requirements. Lot and yard requirements including
height requirements are the same as those required for a multi-family dwelling
on Figure 1; and
         (d)   Parking spaces. Two for each dwelling unit.
      (34)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise.
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side. 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 40 feet.
         (b)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district
or use. 50 feet;
         (c)   Entrance. Not more than two entrances from street;
         (d)   Noise. Noise shall be confined to the premises;
         (e)   Landscape plan. Landscape plan to be submitted with the
application (may be combined with the development plan);
         (f)   Fence. Six-foot wire mesh where accessible to public;
         (g)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
six-foot width where abutting residential use; tight screen, effective at all
times;
         (h)   Setback from interior drives. 40 feet;
         (i)   Parking spaces. One per three employees, plus one per 500 square
feet of use area;
         (j)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (k)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (l)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 60 feet; and
         (m)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (35)   Outdoor theater.
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100 feet;
            2.   Side. 75 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 40 feet; abutting residential use.
         (b)   Fence. Four-foot wire mesh abutting residential use;
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (d)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (e)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 65 feet; and
         (f)   Adequate sewer. Approval required.
      (36)   Penal or correctional institutions.
         (a)   Acreage.
            1.   Minimum lot area. 200 acres; and
            2.   Medium security facility. 15 acres.
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100 feet;
            2.   Side (each). 100 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 100 feet.
         (c)   Minimum distance from residential use. 300 feet;
         (d)   Parking spaces. As determined by the Board. The determination
shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type
of use would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load requirements;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (f)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 65 feet; and
         (g)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (37)   Planned business use in the PB District.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application; and
         (b)   Other requirements. See §
153.046 and Figure 1 for other requirements.
      (38)   Private club or lodge, which is of a noncommercial character in
the A-1, A-2, FR, and MR Districts.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Front, side, and rear,  same as required for a
single-family dwelling in the respective district where located;
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 25; and
            3.   Rear. 25.
         (c)   Parking spaces. One per six active members;
         (d)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (e)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 25 feet.
      (39)   Private recreational development (i.e., picnic grounds, fraternal
organizations, and the like).
         (a)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Side (each). 40 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 40 feet.
         (b)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district
or use. 25 feet;
         (c)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (d)   Landscape plan. Plan of landscape development to be submitted
with the application (may be combined with development plan);
         (e)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
three-foot width when abutting residential use; tight screen, effective at all
times;
         (f)   Parking spaces. One per each six members, or as determined by
the Board. The determination shall be based upon the expected number of parking
spaces the particular type of use would require to satisfy estimated, peak
parking load requirements;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (i)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 25 feet; and
         (j)   Noise. Noise shall be confined to the premises.
      (40)   Produce stands, seasonal.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (b)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising sign and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board.
      (41)   Produce stands, year round.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising sign and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (c)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (42)   Public camp.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100;
            2.   Side (each). 40; and
            3.   Rear. 40.
         (c)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district
or use. 25 feet;
         (d)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
three-foot width, effective at all times of the year;
         (e)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street.
         (f)   Parking. One per campsite, plus one per cabin;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Maximum heights of structure. 25 feet; and
         (i)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval require.
      (43)   Public or commercial sanitary fill or garbage disposal plant.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Ten acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 300; and
            2.   Side (each). 300.
         (c)   Fence. Six-foot wire mesh;
         (d)   Screen planting. Six-foot width abutting residential use;
         (e)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (g)   State requirements. All state requirements for solid waste
disposal shall be met.
      (44)   Public or employee parking area.
         (a)   Masonry. Four-foot high masonry wall along front line and such
other boundaries the Board considers necessary to protect residential property,
except an approved entrance and exit;
         (b)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street; and
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (45)   Public park or public recreational facility.
         (a)   Landscape plan. Plan of landscape development to be submitted
with the application (may be combined with development plan);
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (c)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (d)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (46)   Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants, reservoirs,
and storage tanks.
         (a)   Storage tanks. Proximity to residence district or use 100 feet;
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (c)   Health laws. All applicable health laws and standards shall be
adhered to.
      (47)   Railroad or other mass transportation rights-of-way and trackage,
including public transportation terminal, passenger stations, shelter stations,
and layover areas for transit vehicles and off-street parking facilities.
         (a)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (b)   Parking for passenger station. One per ten seats in waiting
room, plus one per two employees of connected retail use (if any);
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (d)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required; and
         (e)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 45 feet.
      (48)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, except kennel.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Three acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100;
            2.   Side (each). 100; and
            3.   Rear. 100.
         (c)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (d)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
three-foot width when abutting residential use, effective at all times of the
year;
         (e)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (f)   Height. Minimum height of structure: 25 feet; and
         (g)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (49)   Recreation vehicle park.
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Minimum lot area. Five acres;
         (c)   Density. Each recreational vehicle park shall have not more than
25 recreational vehicle spaces per acre of gross site area;
         (d)   Separation. Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each
other and from all other buildings and structures by at least five feet. An
accessory structure, such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet, and porch,
shall be considered to be a portion of the recreational vehicle;
         (e)   Parking. One automobile parking space shall be provided for each
recreational vehicle. No parking shall be permitted in the front yard of the
park tract of land;
         (f)   Accessory uses. Management offices and storage, playground, and
picnic equipment, sanitation and laundry facilities, information signs, and
other structures customarily incidental to a recreational vehicle park shall be
permitted as accessory uses;
         (g)   Term of stay in park and limitation of use. Except as otherwise
provided herein, each recreational vehicle shall not be used for habitation in
the same recreational vehicle park for longer than 180 days in any one calendar
year and shall not be used as a permanent residence;
         (h)   Access. Recreational vehicle parks shall have direct access to
an arterial or major thoroughfare with sufficient frontage thereon for the
proper construction of entrances and exits. Such entrances and exits shall be
designed for the safe movement of recreational vehicles into and out of the
park. Only one principal entrance from a major thoroughfare may be provided;
         (i)   Condominium parks permitted. The sale of individual lots to
individual lot owners (condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed
in a recreational vehicle park. Accordingly, an affirmative statement as to
whether or not the sale of individual lots to individual lot owners
(condominium recreational vehicle park), shall be allowed and shall be included
in the application. If the sale of individual lots to individual lot
(condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed, then the development
plan shall additionally include the number of individual lots to be sold, and
the rights and responsibilities of the individual lot owners and the park
developers in the part and its management. If the sale of individual lots to
individual lot owners (condominium recreational vehicle park) shall be allowed,
then a plat of the recreational vehicle park shall accompany the development
plan (condominiums regulated by I.C. 32-1-6 may not be regulated by the Area
Subdivision Code);
         (j)   Soil and water. The condition of the soil and ground water level
of the proposed park site shall meet the criteria promulgated by the united
states department of agriculture soil conservation service (see §
153.080(T)):
         (k)   Smoke, noise, and odor. The proposed site shall not be exposed
to objectionable smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influences;
         (l)   Screening. A dense planting screen not less than six feet high
after five full growing seasons and which at maturity is not less than 12 feet
high and six feet wide shall be located and effectively maintained at all times
along all boundary lines, except at established entrances and exits serving the
park. A basket weave or similar type of fence or brick or stone wall may be
permitted by the Board instead of a planting screen. The Board may waive any
part of thee screening requirements temporarily or permanently if adequate
screening already exists or if the topography or other conditions so warrant;
         (m)   Side, rear, and front yards. The tract of land for the proposed
park shall have two side yards, each having a minimum of 30 feet in width, a
rear yard having a minimum of 30 feet in depth, and a front yard having a
minimum of 60 feet in depth;
         (n)   Illumination. Parks shall be furnished with lighting units so
spaced and equipped with luminaries at such mounting heights that all parts of
the interior driveway system will have an average level of illumination of
three-tenths foot-candle and that potentially hazardous locations, steps, and
stepped ramps, will have an average level of illumination of six-tenths foot-
candle. All exterior park lights shall be so located and shielded as to prevent
direct illumination of any areas outside the park;
         (o)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves, and incinerators. Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood-burning stoves, and incinerators
shall be so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize fire
hazards and smoke nuisance, both on the property on which used and on
neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities
provided. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no
material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors;
         (p)   Refuse handling. The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse
in the park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof containers,
which shall be located no more than 150 feet from any mobile home lot.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse. Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse
containers. Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers
from being tipped, minimize spillage and container deterioration, and
facilitate cleaning around them. All refuse containing garbage shall be
collected at least once weekly. Where suitable collection service is not
available from municipal or private agencies, the mobile home park owner shall
provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered
vehicles or covered containers. Where municipal or private disposal service is
not available, the park operator shall dispose of the refuse by incineration or
transporting to a disposal site approved by the Health Officer. Refuse
incinerators, if provided, shall be constructed in accordance with engineering
plans and specifications which shall be reviewed and approved by the Health
Officer or other authority having jurisdiction. Incinerators shall be operated
only when attended by some person specifically authorized by the owner or
operator of the park;
         (q)   Electrical distribution system.
            1.   Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system
consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances which shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems. Main power lines not located underground shall be
suspended at least 18 feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum
horizontal clearance of three feet between overhead wiring and any mobile home,
service building, or other structure. All direct burial conductors or cables
shall be insulated and specially designed for the purpose. Such conductors
shall be located not less than one-foot radial distance from water, sewer, gas,
or communication lines. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved
disconnecting device and over-current protective equipment. The minimum service
per outlet shall be 120/240 volt AC, 100 amperes. Outlets (receptacles or
pressure connectors) shall be housed in a weather-proof outlet box, and shall
be located not more than 25 feet from the over-current protective device in the
mobile home. A three-pole, four-wire grounding type shall be used. Receptacles,
if provided, shall be in accordance with American Standard Outlet Receptacle C-
73.1, as amended.
            2.   Connectors, if not substituted by more than one receptacle,
shall be provided where the calculated load of the mobile home is more than 100
amperes. The recreational vehicle shall be connected to the outlet box by an
approved type of flexible supply cord with a male attachment plug or with
pressure connectors. All exposed non-current carrying metal parts of vehicles
and all other equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding
conductor with branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded
metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground
for recreational vehicles or other equipment;
         (r)   Insect and rodent control. Grounds, buildings, and structures
shall be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall
conform with the requirements of the Health Officer. Parks shall be maintained
free of accumulations of debris which may provide rodent harborage or breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes, and other pests. Storage areas shall be so
maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; lumbar, pipe, and other building
material shall be stored at least one foot above the ground. Where the
potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior openings in or
beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire mesh or other
suitable materials. The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled
to prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall
be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac, and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description;
         (s)   Water and sewage. The water supply and sewage disposal shall
meet the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health; and
         (t)   State requirements. All state requirements shall be observed.
      (50)   Restricted commercial farm enterprise (including confined feeding
operations).
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Air and water pollution control. Air and water pollution control
promulgated by I.C. 13-1-1 (air pollution) and I.C. 13-1-3 (water pollution) is
required;
         (c)   Dead storage. No sales, dead storage, repair work, or
dismantling on the lot;
         (d)   Parking spaces. As determined by the Board. The determination
shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type
of use would require to satisfy estimated, peak parking load requirements;
         (e)   Signs and lighting. Signs and artificial lighting require Board
approval;
         (f)   Maximum height of structure. 45 feet;
         (g)   Confined feeding operation; Department approval required.
Approval by the Water Pollution Control, Department of Environmental
Management, is required for confined feeding operations in accordance with I.C.
13-1-5.7; and
         (h)   Waste handling and disposal guidelines. The recommended
applicable guidelines promulgated by the following publications, as revised
(latest issue), shall be required by the Board concerning methods of waste
handling and disposal guidelines:
            1.   Legal guidelines for swine waste management, latest issue, by
cooperative extension service, Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana;
            2.   Waste handling and disposal guidelines for state poultrymen,
latest issue, by cooperative extension service, Purdue University, Lafayette,
Indiana;
            3.   Waste handling and disposal guidelines for state beef
producers, latest issue, by cooperative extension service, Purdue University,
Lafayette, Indiana; and
            4.   Waste handling and disposal guidelines for state dairymen,
latest issue, by cooperative extension service, Purdue University, Lafayette,
Indiana.
      (51)   Riding stable.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Two acres, plus 5,000 square feet per horse
over four horses;
         (b)   Minimum yards. Front, each side and rear yards, 100 feet each;
         (c)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by three-foot width when
abutting residential use;
         (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (e)   Parking. One per two employees, plus one per two horses;
         (f)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (g)   Waste disposal. Disposal of wastes shall meet the approval of
the State Board of Health;
         (h)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application; and
         (i)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (52)   Sales barn for livestock (resale).
         (a)   Minimum yards. Front, each side, and rear yards; 300 feet each;
         (b)   Minimum distance from residential district or use. 300 feet;
         (c)   Minimum distance between parking area and residential district
or use. 300 feet;
         (d)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (e)   Parking. One per twp employees, plus one per each 400 square
feet of display and sales area;
         (f)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application;
         (g)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 45 feet; and
         (h)   Waste disposal. Disposal of waste shall meet the approval of the
State Board of Health.
      (53)   Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge.
         (a)   Parking spaces. One per member or as determined by the Board.
The determination shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the
particular type of use would require to satisfy estimated peak parking
requirements; and
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (54)   Sewage treatment facility (primary use).
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application.
         (b)   Health approval required. Approval by the State Board of Health
required.
      (55)   Shooting range, outdoor.
         (a)   Minimum yards. Front, each side, and rear yards: 300 feet each;
         (b)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
six-foot width;
         (c)   Entrances. Not more than one entrance from street; and
         (d)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (56)   Slaughter house with holding pens.
         (a)   Minimum lot areas. Five acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards. Front, each side, and rear yards: 300 feet each;
         (c)   Minimum distance from residential district or use. 300 feet;
         (d)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district. 50
feet;
         (e)   Animals kept temporarily. Live animals may not be held
overnight;
         (f)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required;
         (i)   Adequate disposal methods. Dead animals and offal shall be
disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the Board;
         (j)   Parking. One per two employees, plus four additional spaces; and
         (k)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (57)   Special school.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. 10,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 25 feet;
            2.   Each side. 10 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 10 feet.
         (c)   Fence. Four-foot wire mesh around play area;
         (d)   Parking spaces. One per three employees, plus one per six
students;
         (e)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet;
         (f)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required; and
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (58)   Stadium, coliseum, athletic field.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Five acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. Standard;
            2.   Each side. 50 feet; and
            3.   Rear. 50 feet.
         (c)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or
use. 25 feet;
         (d)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by six-foot width when adjacent
to residential use;
         (e)   Entrances. Not more than two from street;
         (f)   Parking. One space for each four seats in the grandstand, plus
three per four employees;
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (h)   Height. Maximum height of structure 45 feet; and
         (i)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (59)   Storage of disabled vehicles, temporary.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. One-half acre;
         (b)   Minimum yards. Standard use;
         (c)   Minimum distance of parking area from residential district or
use. 25 feet;
         (d)   Fence. Six-foot solid painted fence;
         (e)   Screen planting. Six-foot height by three-foot width where
abutting residential use;
         (f)   Entrance. Not more than one from street; and
         (g)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (60)   Studio business (art, interior decorating, music, and the like).
         (a)   Parking spaces. As determined by the Board. The determination
shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the particular type
of use would require to satisfy estimated, plan parking load requirements; and
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application.
      (61)   Telephone exchange or public utility substation in the A-1, A-2,
FR, MR, and I-2 District.
         (a)   Screen planting. Screen planting; adequate for purpose as
determined by Board (also along abutting street);
         (b)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (c)   Parking space. One per employee at or working out of site;
         (d)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application; and
         (e)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required.
      (62)   Transmission lines for gas, oil, electricity, or other utilities
(major lines). Development plan to be submitted with the application.
      (63)   Transmission towers (radio, tv, and the like, and micro wave
towers).
         (a)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application;
         (b)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board; and
         (c)   Height. As required by the appropriate state or federal agency.
      (64)   Veterinary hospital for small animals.
         (a)   Parking. One space per two employees, plus one per doctor, plus
two per examining rooms;
         (b)   Development plan. Development plan shall be submitted with the
application; and
         (c)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 35 feet.
      (65)   Wholesale produce terminal or truck terminal.
         (a)   Minimum lot area. Ten acres;
         (b)   Minimum yards.
            1.   Front. 100 feet;
            2.   Side (each). 75 feet abutting residential use, otherwise 35
feet;
            3.   Rear. 40 feet.
         (c)   Minimum distance from residential district or use. 100 feet;
         (d)   Minimum distance of parking from residential district. 100 feet;
         (e)   Fence. Six-foot height wire mesh fence;
         (f)   Screen planting. Screen planting shall be six-foot height by
three-foot width where abutting residential use; tight screen, effective at all
times;
         (g)   Entrance. Not more than one entrance from street;
         (h)   Parking spaces. One per two employees on largest shift;
         (e)   Development plan. Development plan to be submitted with the
application;
         (j)   Signs and lighting. Outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
artificial lighting shall be approved by the Board;
         (k)   Height. Maximum height of structure: 45 feet;
         (l)   Adequacy of sewers. Approval required; and
         (m)   Thoroughfares. Thoroughfares must be adequate.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.015  BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines shall be required along all public streets in
accordance with the specifications in Figure 1, lot and yard requirements, and
as hereinafter provided. Any yard abutting a street shall be deemed a front
yard for purpose of determining front building setback lines.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   For residential uses where 25% or more of the lots in the block
frontage are occupied by buildings, the average setback of such buildings
determine the dimension of the. Front yard in the block frontage, but the front
yard need not exceed 50 feet in any case, (except in the PB District).
      (2)   In business and industrial districts where 25% or more of the lots
in a block frontage are occupied by buildings, the setback of such buildings
shall determine the location of the building line, except for the PB District.
      (3)   Building lines or building setback lines established in a recorded
subdivision shall establish the dimension of front yards in such subdivisions.
      (4)   On through lots, a front yard is required on each street.
   (B)   Conflict; setback requirements. In case of conflict with the front
setback requirements of the zoning districts, special exceptions, contingent
uses, or other applicable provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive
requirement shall govern.
   (C)   Exceptions. The setback exceptions set forth in this section apply to
the requirement of Ch. 154, Thoroughfare Plan Code which incorporates the “Area
Thoroughfare Plan of County -1996”, and which establishes the proposed right-
of-way line as the front line of lots that front upon a street.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.016  YARD EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Any yard or setback line so placed or oriented that none of the
specific terms in this chapter
are applicable, shall necessitate a determination by the Executive Director of
suitable dimensions generally required for a similar situation in the zone or
district.
      (2)   Minimum required yards or budding setback distances shall be
unobstructed and open to the sky, except for customary projections and
temporary storage as hereinafter provided, and signs in accordance with §§
153.095 through
153.104.
   (B)   Yard encroachments. No structure or part thereof shall project into a
required front yard except:
      (1)   An eave, cornice overhang, awning, balcony, or bay window not
exceeding four feet; provided, however, that in no event shall said
encroachment protrude closer than 20 feet to a front lot line, subject to
exceptions;
      (2)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys,
and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding two feet;
and
      (3)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces, or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level and not to project a distance in
excess often feet.
   (C)   Projections. No structure or part thereof shall project into a
required side or rear yard except:
      (1)   An eave, cornice, overhang, awning, balcony, or bay window not
exceeding four feet; provided, however, that said encroachment shall not
protrude closer than 80% of the required distance to any side or rear lot line;
      (2)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys,
and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding two feet;
provided, however, that said encroachment shall not protrude closer than 80% of
the required distance to any side or rear lot line;
      (3)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces, or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level; and
      (4)   Family swimming pools, see §
153.066(C)(4).
   (D)   Alley abutting rear or side yard. One-half of an alley abutting the
rear or side of a lot may be included in the rear yard or side yard,
respectively, but such alley space shall not be included for loading and
unloading berths.
   (E)   Side yards. Where 60% or more of the lots in a block frontage are
occupied by buildings which provide side yards, of less than the minimum
required by this chapter, the average side yard of such buildings, may
determine the required side yard; provided, however, no side yard shall be
reduced to less than three feet (except in districts which do not require side
yards). Where an existing building is deficient in side yards, any addition to
such an existing building shall maintain the existing side yards.
   (F)   Tapered yard formula (for accessory building). Where an interior lot
fronts on a side street in the rear of the corner lot by an alley, an accessory
building located on the rear lot line of the corner lot shall set back from the
side street as far as the dwelling on said interior lot. For each foot that
such accessory building is placed from the rear lot line toward the front lot
line of the corner lot, the accessory building may be set four inches closer to
the front lot line along the side street required by this chapter.
   (G)   Fences.
      (1)   Fences used for agricultural purposes, recreation use, or the
public safety shall not be regulated by this chapter.
      (2)   Fences used for residential purposes shall be allowed without the
issuance of any permit, subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Fences shall be allowed in side and rear yards up to a height of
six feet.
         (b)   No setback shall be required for fences in side and rear yards.
         (c)   Fences shall be allowed to extend along side property lines;
provided, that from the building setback line to the road right-of-way line
they shall be of an open or wire mesh type and shall not exceed three and one-
half feet in height.
         (d)   Fences shall not be permitted to block passage along existing
sidewalks.
         (e)   Front yard fences within the building setback line shall not
exceed six feet in height.
         (f)   Fencing intended for decorative purposes only, and which does
not include any area to be completely enclosed, may be allowed on any part of a
parcel; provided, that it does not exceed three feet in height.
      (3)   Fences in business (LB, PB, or GB) or industrial (I-1 or I-2)
districts, where used for commercial or industrial uses, shall be allowed
subject to the following provisions: fences intended for security purposes
shall not exceed a maximum height of eight feet, plus a maximum of three
strands of barbed wire, and shall be allowed within any side or rear yards;
however, they shall not be allowed in any greenstrip or buffer area.
      (4)   Every outdoor swimming pool, which is more than 18 inches in depth,
shall be surrounded by a fence not less than four feet in height. Such fence
shall be either of chain-link type or of a type offering equivalent protection.
All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be designed to permit
locking and shall be kept locked when the pool is not in actual use, or left
unattended. See §
153.066(C)(2) through (C)(4).
   (H)   Minor accessory uses and screening.
      (1)   Accessory uses such as public utility installations, walks,
driveways, curbs, retaining walls (not exceeding four feet in height),
mailboxes, nameplates, lamp posts, bird baths, and structures of a like nature
are permitted in any required front, side, or rear yard, without the issuance
of any permit.
      (2)   Trees, shrubs, flowers, or plants shall be permitted in any
required front, side, or rear yard, except that vision clearance on corner lots
shall be provided when required.
   (I)   Intersection visibility.
      (1)   In all districts, except the GB District, a triangular space at the
street corner of a corner lot shall be maintained free from any kind of
obstruction to vision between the heights of three and 12 feet above the
established street grade. The street grade is measured at the intersection of
the centerlines of the intersecting street pavements, and the triangular space
is determined by a diagonal line connecting two points measured 15 feet along
each of the street property lines equidistant from the intersection of the
property lines or the property lines extended at the corner of the lot.
      (2)   In the case of a rounded property corner, said triangular area
shall be measured from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines
extended.
      (3)   In addition, the above vision sight lines shall apply to any lot
within ten feet from the intersection of a street right-of-way line with the
edge of a driveway pavement or alley line. No driveway shall be located within
40 feet of the intersection of two street lines. See §
153.022.
   (J)   Storage.
      (1)   No portion of any required yard shall be used for the permanent
storage of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, trailers,
airplanes, boats, or parts thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent, or building
materials, except during construction and in accordance with the terms of this
chapter. (See §
153.025 and §
153.066(C)(13) and (C)(14).) Recreational boats and trailers are to be
considered as recreational vehicles for the purpose of storage.
      (2)   Permanent storage for purpose of this division (J) shall be
construed as the presence of such storage for a period of 48 or more
consecutive hours in any one-week period. See §
153.025).
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.017  ACCESS AND FRONTAGE.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be located on a lot with
frontage and access on a public street, and all buildings shall be so located
on lots so as to provide for safe and convenient access, fire protection, and
required off-street parking.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.018  ONE PRIMARY BUILDING PER LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot unless otherwise
specified for planned developments. In no case shall there be more than one
principal building used for residential purposes, and its accessory buildings,
located on one lot, except as otherwise provided in this chapter for a mobile
home park or unit development plan.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.019  CONVERSIONS.
   (A)   Certain conversions discouraged. It is the purpose of this chapter to
discourage the conversion of existing dwellings originally designed for
occupancy by two families or less to occupancy by more than two families when
such conversion is likely to lead to overcrowding, lack of privacy, lack of
sufficient light and air, unsafe or unsanitary living conditions, or inadequate
provisions for off-street parking and open space.
   (B)   Consistent with purposes. Such conversions shall be consistent with
the purposes of other applicable provisions of this chapter, including housing
and building codes and fire safety and utility programs.
   (C)   Appearance and repair. In connection with such conversions, there
shall be no evidence of change in the building to indicate the extra dwelling
units, except as may be required by the aforementioned codes and programs; all
fire escapes or stairways leading to a second or higher floor shall be
completely enclosed within the converted building; and no dwelling shall be so
converted unless in connection therewith it be placed in a reasonable state of
repair.
   (D)   Exception. In cases of question as to the applicability of these
standards, such proposed conversion shall be deemed an exception and placed
before the Board in accordance with the requirements in §
153.081.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.020  MANUFACTURED HOME AND MOBILE HOMES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes may be permitted in certain
districts (see I.C. 36-7-4-1106), provided, their use as a single-family
dwelling unit incorporates a permanent foundation (see I.C. 22-11-1-1) and a
permanent perimeter wall (see §
153.004), as well as the other requirements in this chapter.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be required to meet the minimum square
footage requirements provided for in any area zoned for single-family and two-
family homes.
      (2)   The homes shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
or two-family dwellings and shall be subject to all necessary improvement
location, building, and occupancy permits.
      (3)   The homes shall be larger than 950 square feet of occupied space,
or meet the standards as required by the appropriate zoning district, whichever
is greater.
      (4)   The homes must be permanently attached to a solid foundation
extending down below the frost line a minimum of 32 inches or on basement
walls. The space between the floor joists of the home and the excavated area
under floor grade shall be completely enclosed with permanent perimeter
foundation or basement walls, except for required openings.
      (5)   The homes shall be covered with an exterior material of one or more
of the following types which shall extend over the top of the foundation:
         (a)   Horizontal aluminum or vinyl;
         (b)   Cedar or wood siding;
         (c)   Weather resistant grain;
         (d)   Stucco, block, or stone; or
         (e)   Other materials approved by the Director.
      (6)   The homes shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on-site built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt, or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
      (7)   Manufactured homes not meeting the terms of this division (A) shall
be permitted only after receiving a variance approved by the Board or be
located in an approved mobile home park.
      (8)   Any structural alteration or modification of a manufactured home
after it is placed on the site must be in full compliance with this chapter and
approved by the Executive Director prior to a building permit being issued.
   (B)   Mobile homes. Manufactured dwellings (see §
153.004) and mobile homes (see §
153.004) are permitted uses in a mobile home park.
   (C)   Mobile homes permitted according to certain conditions.
      (1)   A mobile home located on a lot, when an improvement location permit
and a certificate of occupancy have been issued for such use which is on file
in the office of the Executive Director, is a permitted use on the lot and
shall be classified by the Executive Director according to one of the six
mobile home classifications set forth in division (D) below. Accordingly, the
existing “classified” mobile home may remain on the lot upon which it was
legally located at the time of passage of the ordinance comprising this
chapter.
      (2)   The owner of the lot has the following options.
         (a)   The existing mobile home may be replaced with another mobile
home having the same or a higher classification; provided, that the existing
mobile home would either replace another mobile home in the county, or be
removed from the county before an improvement location permit could be issued
by the Executive Director.
         (b)   The existing mobile home may be replaced with any other use
permitted in the particular district where the lot is located.
         (c)   If an existing or replaced mobile home is removed from a lot for
a period of more than 90 days, another mobile home cannot again be located on
that lot.
   (D)   Classification of mobile homes. Mobile homes are hereby divided into
the following classes by the Executive Director.
      (1)   Class A. Mobile homes built on or after June 15, 1976, and
manufactured dwellings built prior to January 1, 1981, or on or after June 15,
1976, certified as meeting the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approved as meeting
“acceptable similarity” appearance standards in accordance with the Federal
Sec. 504.10.
      (2)   Class B. Mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
Construction and Safety Standards, but not approved as meeting “acceptable
similarity” appearance standards.
      (3)   Class C. Mobile homes (built prior to June 15, 1976), certified as
meeting “acceptable prior code or codes”, or used mobile homes certified as
meeting either HUD standards specified above or such prior code, found on
inspection to be in excellent condition and safe and fit for residential
occupancy.
      (4)   Class D. Mobile homes (built prior to June 15, 1976), whether or
not certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in good
condition.
      (5)   Class E. Mobile homes (built prior to June 15, 1976), whether or
not certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in fair
condition.
      (6)   Class F. Mobile homes (built prior to June 15, 1976), whether or
not certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in poor
condition, unsafe, and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.021  HEIGHT.
   (A)   Normal maximum building heights.
      (1)   The normal maximum height of a dwelling is as follows in the
districts indicated: 25 feet or two and one-half stories in the A-1, A-2, FR,
R-1, and R-2 Districts; and 35 feet or three and one-half stories in the LB,
PB, GB, I-2, MR, and UD Districts.
      (2)   The normal maximum height of business uses is as follows in the
districts indicated: 40 feet in the LB and PB Districts; 60 feet in the GB and
UD Districts.
      (3)   The normal maximum height of enclosed industrial uses is 75 feet in
the GB, I-1, and I-2 Districts.
      (4)   The normal maximum height of contingent uses is as follows in the
districts indicated: 35 feet in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-1, R-2, and UD Districts;
40 feet in the LB, PB, and I-2 Districts; and 60 feet in the GB and I-
2 Districts.
      (5)   The normal maximum height of accessory buildings is as follows in
the districts indicated: 18 feet in the A-1, A-2, FR, R-I, R-2, LB, and UD
Districts; and 24 feet in the PB, GB, I-1, and I-2 Districts; provided, that an
accessory building to a farm house or farm dwelling may be erected to a normal
maximum height of 40 feet.
   (B)   Height exceptions.
      (1)   In the districts limiting height to 25 feet, a dwelling may be
increased in height not to exceed 40 feet provided the required side yards are
increased an additional foot for each foot such structure exceeds 25 feet in
height.
      (2)   Business and industrial buildings and structures may be erected
higher than the normal maximum if they are set back from front and rear
property fines, one foot for each two feet of additional height above the
normal maximum height; provided, that the Executive Director approves the
increased height, primarily upon the availability of adequate fire protection.
      (3)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire lowers,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, water lowers, transmission towers, or essential
mechanical appurtenances, may be erected to any height not prohibited by other
laws or the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.022  SUPPLEMENTARY BUSINESS STANDARDS.
   In any district where applicable, the following standards shall supplement
the business use requirements of the district.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   No unusually loud amplification of radio music or other audio-
advertising shall be permitted on the premises.
      (2)   No lights utilizing an attracting device or lights on stringers of
unshielded incandescent lamps or attention attracting lighting from apparatus
of a type used by emergency vehicles shall be permitted on the premises.
      (3)   There shall be no exterior displays which restrict visibility in
any way or which impede the movement of any vehicles. All such displays shall
be maintained in an orderly manner.
      (4)   Adequate indoor or outdoor trash containers shall be required;
provided, however, that trash containers exceeding six cubic feet shall be
located within a solid, decorative stall behind or beside the primary structure
away from the view of the frontal street.
      (5)   No vending machines shall be permitted on the exterior of any
building on the premises except where contained in a shelter, stall, or other
area so located as not to interfere materially with the use of adjoining
property.
      (6)   No pennants, banners, or other similar attracting or advertising
devices shall be permitted on the premises; however, notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, the use of pennants and other similar attracting
devices in connection with a special promotional program may be permitted by
the Board upon the issuance of a temporary improvement location permit. See §
153.33(7)(16), trash receptacles must be enclosed in all business and
industrial areas, and §
153.098(D)(4).
   (B)   Traffic congestion.
      (1)   The number of traffic access points for establishments with 100
feet or less of frontage on a street shall not exceed one.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever practicable, for establishments with frontage of
more than 100 feet, a service road or frontage street shall be provided, of not
less than two lanes in width or a combined service road and parking area,
parallel with and adjacent to the street upon which the establishments front.
In the event the establishments fronts on more than one street, such service
roads may be required on more than one street frontage.
         (b)   The service road or roads required by this section shall be
effectively separated from the main roadway by a landscape strip or other
suitable delineation, and shall be designed and arranged so as to provide the
principal means of access to abutting business establishments.
         (c)   In general, the use of public improved alleys, interior access
roads, or any other designed means to minimize the number of traffic access
points and business intersections therein are encouraged.
   (C)   Open-air business. Any establishment where the principal use is the
drive-in type of business, or is generally characterized by open-air business
operations, it shall be subject to the following standards.
      (1)   (a)   A decorative fence or wall of not less than five feet in
height shall be constructed and maintained along the side and rear lot lines.
         (b)   Where such use abuts a residential use, a buffer landscape strip
at least 20 feet in width shall be provided and maintained along the side and
rear lot lines, within which buffer, a landscape screen shall be provided not
less than six feet in height.
      (2)   Such business uses shall be limited to the characteristics
customarily associated with such use and no other.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.023  HOME OCCUPATIONS AND ADULT BUSINESS HOMES.
   (A)   Home occupation. A home occupation may be permitted as an accessory
use to accompany a residential use by the grant of an improvement location
permit issued by the Executive Director, subject to the requirements of this
section and §
153.066.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   A home occupation shall be permitted when said occupation is
conducted on residentially used premises (in a district where business uses are
not permitted) is considered customary and traditional, incidental to the
principal use of the premises as a residence, and not construed as a business.
         (b)   Home occupations shall be of a personal service nature limited
to domestic crafts and professional service, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Such domestic crafts, as dressmaking, millinery, sewing,
weaving, tailoring, ironing, washing, custom home furnishings work, carpentry
work, and furniture repair; and
            2.   Such professions or occupations as law, medicine,
architecture, engineering, planning, real estate, insurance, notary public,
manufacturer’s agent, clergy, writing, painting, photography, and tutoring;
provided, however, the service is limited to advice and consultation and the
premises are not used for the general practice of the profession or occupation.
         (c)   For purposes of this chapter, law offices, real estate and
insurance offices, clinics, doctors’ offices, barber shops and beauty parlors,
dress shops, millinery shops, tourist homes, animal hospitals and kennels,
trailer rentals, among others, shall not be deemed to be permitted home
occupations unless such home occupations meet the requirements of this section.
         (d)   Home occupations shall be subject to all the regulations of the
applicable district in which they are located.
         (e)   Home occupations shall not adversely affect the residential
character of the district or interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of
adjoining properties.
      (2)   Standards.
         (a)   The primary use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a resident in
the dwelling unit.
         (b)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and he or she shall not employ any other person other than a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
         (c)   No structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to be a business appearance shall be
permitted.
         (d)   No more than 25% of the floor area of any one story of the
dwelling unit shall be devoted to such home occupation.
         (e)   Such home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the
primary building or dwelling unit used as a residence. No home occupation shall
be conducted in any accessory building.
         (f)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
         (g)   No provision for more than one extra off-street parking or
loading facility, other than the requirements and permitted facilities of the
zone district, shall be permitted. No part of a minimum required setback
distance shall be used for off-street parking or loading facilities and no
additional driveway to serve such home occupations shall be permitted;
provided, that a doctor’s office (if allowed by the Board) may have additional
parking facilities.
         (h)   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-flashing announcement
plate, indicating not more than the name of the occupation and name and address
of the resident. Said plate shall be attached flat against the wall of the
residence and shall not exceed one (2) square feet in total sign facing surface
area.
         (i)   No stock in trade or commodities, other than those prepared,
produced, or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation,
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
         (j)   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local
radio communications and television reception, or cause fluctuation in line
voltage off the premises, or violate the general performance standards of §
153.011.
         (k)   There shall be no commodities sold or services rendered that
require receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment other than a
passenger motor vehicle or by parcel or letter carrier mail service using
vehicles typically employed in residential deliveries. No deliveries by semi-
tractor/trailer trucks are permitted.
         (l)   Trucks with business signs are not permitted from being parked
on the street or within 30 feet of the curb. Business vehicles cannot be bigger
than a pickup and must be parked off the street.
         (m)   Any type of repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with
internal combustion engines (such as autos, motorcycles, scooters, snowmobiles,
outboard marine engines, lawn mowers, chainsaws, and other small engines), or
of large appliances (such as washing machines, dryers, and refrigerators), or
any other work related to automobiles and their parts is not a home occupation
and is prohibited.
         (n)   Accessory home occupations may not serve as headquarters or
dispatch centers where employees come to the site and are dispatched to other
locations.
   (B)   Sexual-oriented business; adult business uses; specifically. Adult
arcade, including peep shows; adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult
video store; adult cabaret; adult dance studio; adult hotel or adult motel;
adult motion picture theater (indoor or outdoor); adult theaters; and massage
parlors are special exceptions and shall be processed in accordance with the
special exception procedure and requirements set forth in §
153.014 and the additional requirements of this section.
      (1)   Locational regulations. No person shall establish or cause or
permit to be established a sexually-oriented business premises within 1,000
feet of another sexually-oriented business; within 1,000 feet of any public or
private school, public park or recreation area, public building with programs
for minors; or within 750 feet of a church or religious facility, or the
boundary of a residence district or any single-family or multi-family
residential use, or a hospital or other medical facility, or properties listed
on the National Register of Historical Places or local historic districts as
identified by the State Historic Preservation Program.
      (2)   Distance measurements. For the purpose of subsection (a),
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as part of the premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted,
or to the nearest property line of the premises where a sexually-oriented
business is conducted, or to the nearest property line of the premises of a
church or public or private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest
boundary of an affected public park, residential district, residential lot,
hospital, or other medical facility, or properties listed on the National
Historic Register or local historic districts as identified by the State
Historic Preservation Program. For the purpose of measuring the distance
between any two sexually-oriented businesses, the distance shall be measured in
a straight line without regard to intervening structures or objects from the
closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
      (3)   Improvement location permit; conditions of application.
         (a)   The applicant shall be the operator of the proposed adult
business.
         (b)   The application must also be signed by the property owner if
different from the applicant.
         (c)   The application shall include the property owner’s and the
applicant’s mailing address, and the name and phone number of the person who is
responsible for providing access to the proposed use for inspection purposes.
         (d)   The application shall list the legal form of the applicant,
e.g., individual, partnership, corporation:
            1.   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall list
his or her legal name, and any aliases;
            2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall list
the full and complete name of the partnership, the legal names of all partners,
and all aliases used; and
            3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall list
the full and complete corporate name, the legal names, and all aliases used by
officers, directors, and principal stockholders (i.e., all stockholders with
10% or more of all outstanding shares).
         (e)   The application shall include a description of the proposed use,
including reference to definitions in this section.
         (f)   The application shall include a statement that the locational
regulations of division (B)(3)(a) above have been satisfied using the method of
measurement described in division (B)(3)(b) above.
         (g)   The application shall include accurately scaled plot plans
indicating the structure in which the adult business is to be conducted and
identifying and locating all land uses and property lines within a radius of
3,250 feet of the structure.
         (h)   If the adult business proposes to operate a viewing booth(s),
the applicant shall submit a diagram of the interior premises. See definition
of “viewing booth” in §
153.004 for additional requirements.
      (4)   Developing and performance standards. Adult businesses shall comply
with all of the following development and performance standards.
         (a)   Advertisements, displays, or other promotional materials
depicting or describing, specified anatomical areas, or specified sexual
activities, or displaying instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are
designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities shall not be
shown or exhibited so as to be visible from other areas open to the general
public.
         (b)   All building openings, entries, and windows for an adult
business shall be located, covered, or screened in such a manner as to prevent
a view into the interior of an adult business from any area open to the general
public.
         (c)   All entrances to an adult business shall be clearly and legibly
posted by a notice indicating that minors are prohibited from entering the
premises.
         (d)   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult
business for the amplification of sound to a level discernable by the public
beyond the walls of the building in which the adult business is conducted.
         (e)   No residential structure or any other nonconforming structure
shall be converted for use as an adult business after enactment of the
provisions of this section.
         (f)   1.   An on-site security program, including the required
interior and exterior lighting plans, shall be prepared and implemented.
            2.   The security program shall include the following:
               a.   The presence of an on-site manager during all business
hours;
               b.   All off-street parking areas and building entries serving
the adult business shall be illuminated during all hours of operation with a
lighting system designed to provide a minimum maintained horizontal
illumination of greater than one foot-candle of light on the parking surface
and/or walkway. In the event the adult business shares its parking with other
businesses, this requirement shall only apply within a radius of 100 feet from
any entrance into the adult business; and
               c.   All interior portions of the adult business, except those
areas devoted to mini-motion or motion pictures, shall be illuminated during
all hours of operation with a lighting system designed to provide a minimum
maintained horizontal illumination of not less than two foot-candles of light
at the floor.
         (g)   All exterior areas of adult businesses, including buildings,
landscaping, and parking areas, shall be maintained in a clean and orderly
manner.
         (h)   An adult business shall not remain open for business, or permit
any employee to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale,
solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a service, between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any particular day. These hours of operation may be
further restricted by the Area Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   Improvement location permit; denial. The Executive Director shall
deny the application for an improvement location permit for any of the
following reasons.
         (a)   The application does not meet the standards set forth in this
section.
         (b)   An application has failed to provide information required on the
application for the issuance of the improvement location permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         (c)   The premises to be used for the adult business have not been
approved as being in compliance with health, fire, and building codes by the
department or agency responsible under law for investigating said compliance.
         (d)   The required application or permit fees have not been paid.
         (e)   The proposed location is in violation of, or is not in
compliance with, any or the provisions of this section including, but not
limited to, the locational requirements for an adult business under this
section.
         (f)   The granting of the application would violate a town or county,
state, or federal statute, ordinance, regulation, or court order.
         (g)   The applicant has had an improvement location permit under this
section revoked within the preceding 12 months.
         (h)   The proposed use does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter and any other provisions of the county, or the Town of Vevay or the
Town of Patriot Codes, as the case may be.
         (i)   The applicant has applied for an improvement location permit for
a particular location within a period of 12 months from the date of denial of a
previous application for an improvement location permit at the same location,
and there has not been an intervening change in the circumstances which could
reasonably be expected to lead to a different decision regarding the former
reasons for denial.
      (6)   Improvement location; revocation.
         (a)   Any improvement location permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this section may be revoked in accordance with the procedures set
forth below.
         (b)   The Executive Director shall report all facts and information
relating to the alleged violation(s) of this section or of the conditions of
the proposed improvement location permit to the Area Board of Zoning Appeals,
who shall set the matter for a public hearing at the first available regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board not less than two weeks, nor later than 30 days
after receipt of the report.
         (c)   Written notice of hearing on the proposed improvement location
permit revocation together with written notification of the specific grounds of
complaint against the permittee shall be personally delivered or sent by
certified mail to the address on the permittee’s application for the
improvement location permit at least ten days prior to the hearing.
         (d)   The improvement location permit shall revoke an improvement
location permit if it makes one or more of the following findings:
            1.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
is being exercised in violation of any of the provisions of this section;
            2.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
is being exercised contrary to the terms or conditions of such permit;
            3.   The permittee gave fraudulent or misleading information in the
materials submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the
applicant’s opportunity for obtaining an improvement location permit;
            4.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
is being exercised so as to be detrimental to the public health and safety;
            5.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
is being exercised so as to constitute a nuisance;
            6.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
has ceased to exist for one year or more; and
            7.   The use for which the improvement location permit was granted
is being exercised contrary to or in violation of any town or county, state, or
federal statute, ordinance, regulation, or court order.
         (e)   The Area Board of Zoning Appeals, following the termination of
the public hearing, shall not later than its next regular meeting, unless this
time limit is extended by agreement of the parties having an interest in the
proceedings, act to revoke the improvement location permit or modify the
conditions of the improvement location permit or determine not to revoke or
modify the improvement location permit.
   (7)   Applicability to other regulations. The provisions of this section are
not intended to provide exclusive regulation of the regulated adult uses. Such
uses must comply with any and all applicable regulations imposed in other parts
of this chapter and any other county or town codes or ordinances, and state and
federal law.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.024  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities shall be
provided and maintained for all buildings, structures, or premises used in
whole or in part for purposes permitted by this chapter in accordance with the
provisions of this section, or as otherwise indicated in §
153.014, or elsewhere in this chapter.
      (2)   The regulations of this section are designed to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public streets by establishing minimum requirements
for on-site storage of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which the
property is occupied.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of the
unified zoning ordinance of the county, as amended, adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners, and the Town Council of Patriot and the Town of Vevay on
the September 8, 1964, shall be required to provide and maintain the parking
and loading requirements herein; provided, however, off-street parking and
loading spaces required by any ordinances adopted pursuant to the state
planning statutes shall be continued and maintained.
      (2)   For any nonconforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, reestablished, or repaired,
off-street parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided, however, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
chapter for equivalent new uses.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity, or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
as required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure, or premises
shall hereinafter be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this
chapter, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required for such
new use.
      (5)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities in existence on
the effective date of the unified zoning ordinance of the county, as amended,
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of the county, and the Town
Council of Patriot and the Town Council of Vevay on the September 8, 1964,
shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than, shall not be
further reduced below the requirements for a similar new use under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of accessory off-street parking or loading facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings; provided, that all regulations herein
governing the location, design, and operation of such facilities are adhered
to.
      (7)   Accessory off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided
on the same lot as the use served, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, and may be situated in one or more individual areas.
      (8)   (a)   Accessory off-street parking facilities for separate uses may
be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use, and; provided,
that all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces in relation
to the use served are adhered to.
         (b)   Further, no parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a
required space for more than one use unless otherwise authorized by the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
      (9)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities provided to
comply with the provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced
below the requirements of this chapter.
      (10)   (1)   Accessory off-street parking facilities required herein
shall be utilized solely for the parking of passenger automobiles or trucks of
not more than one and one-half-ton capacity, by patrons, occupants, or
employees of specified uses; and for residential uses, not more than one such
truck space shall be provided for each dwelling unit on the lot.
         (2)   Said parking facilities shall not be used for the storage,
display, sale, repair, dismantling, or wrecking of any vehicle, equipment, or
material; provided, that the parking of a school bus or other municipally owned
vehicle on a lot as an accessory use may be permitted at any time in any case.
      (11)   Required off-street loading and unloading spaces shall not be
construed as being part of the required off-street parking spaces.
      (12)   Loading and unloading berths shall not be required for business
uses and industrial uses which demonstrably do not receive or transmit goods or
wares by truck delivery.
      (13)   Accessory off-street parking facilities are not required in a
block frontage contained in a GB or I-2 District in which the ground floor area
of business or industrial structures, including their accessory buildings,
existing at the time of passage of the unified zoning ordinance of the county,
as amended, adopted by the Board of County Commissioners, and the Town Council
of Patriot and the Town Council of Vevay on September 8, 1994, equaled 50% or
more of the entire area of the block frontage.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Each required off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet
in width and at least 20 feet in length, exclusive of access drives or aisles,
ramps, columns, or office or work areas. Such space shall have adequate
vertical clearance. For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall
be increased to 24 feet.
      (2)   Each required off-street loading space shall be of a size not less
than that required for an off-street parking space but scaled larger to
delivery vehicles expected to be used, logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-
street parking spaces are filled; provided, that for industrial uses, the off-
street area required for the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials
or merchandise is held to be a 12-foot by 45-foot loading space with a 14-foot
height clearance; provided further, that if more than one berth is provided,
the minimum dimensions are held to be ten feet by 45 feet with a 14-foot height
clearance.
      (3)   (a)   Except on lots occupied by one-, two-family, and multi-family
dwellings, each off-street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or
driveway at least 12 feet wide or such additional width and design in
accordance with the following table, so as to provide safe and efficient means
of vehicular access to such parking space.
         (b)   Such aisle or driveway shall be unobstructed and allow for the
passage of emergency vehicles at all times.
 
Parking Angle (in degrees) Aisle Width (in feet)
45°                       14
60°                       18
90°                       24
 
         (b)   The angle shall be measured between centerline of parking space
and centerline of aisle.
      (4)   All off-street parking or loading facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
      (5)   In determining the minimum required number of off-street parking or
loading spaces, the following instructions shall be applicable in such
computations.
         (a)   If the unit of measurement is any fraction of the unit specified
in relation to the number of spaces to be provided, said fraction shall be
considered as being the next unit and shall be counted as requiring one space.
         (b)   In sports arenas, churches, and other places of assembly in
which patrons occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each
22 inches of such sealing shall be counted as one seal for the purpose of
determining requirements hereunder.
      (6)   Accessory off-street parking areas may count toward the open space
requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   (a)   Accessory off-street parking and loading areas shall be
provided to the rear of the required front building setback line, except as
specified otherwise by this chapter.
         (b)   When permitted within required setback distances, a landscape
screen shall be provided along the property line next to a residence use.
      (8)   (a)   Adequate employee and customer off-street parking area shall
be provided, including such areas incidental to display, servicing, and repair.
         (b)   No such parking shall be permitted on driveway approaches,
landscape areas, adjacent alleys, or streets, on any public right-of-way, or in
such a manner as to restrict motorists’ visibility.
   (D)   Minimum off-street parking requirements.
Type of use Minimum Parking Space
Type of use                             Minimum Parking Space
Amusement establishments, including     1 parking space for each 500 square
swimming pools, golf courses, bowling   feet of gross floor area, or 5 parking
alleys, skating rinks, and similar      spaces for each hole, alley, or 100
facilities                              square feet of water area, whichever is
                                        greater
Automobile and truck repair             1 for each 200 square feet of net floor
                                        area
Automobile service sales room, business
services, clothing services, food       1 for each 125 square feet of net floor
services, personal services, retail     area
service, and retail stores generally,
and tavern or night club
                                        1 parking space for each employee per
Automobile service station uses         largest working shift, plus 2 spaces
                                        for each service stall
Billiard room, dancing academy,
sporting activities, department store,  1 for each 200 square feet of net floor
and automobile, truck, or trailer       area
rental and sales area
Boarding schools, vocational and trade  1 parking space for each 6 students,
schools, colleges, and similar          based on the maximum number of students
educational institutions                attending classes on the premises at
                                        any one time during a 24-hour period
Bowling alley or roller rink            3 for each lane, plus 1 for each 6
                                        spectator seats
Churches, theaters, auditoriums,        1 parking space for each 5 seats in the
assembly halls, undertaking             main sanctuary or room, plus 1 space
establishments, and similar places of   for each employee per largest working
congregation                            shift
                                        1 parking space for each 2 employees on
Commercial, manufacturing, and          the largest shift, plus an adequate
industrial establishments not catering  number of spaces for visitors and
to the retail trade                     company vehicles operating from the
                                        premises
Community centers, public buildings,    1 parking space for each 800 square
utilities, and public service uses,     feet of gross floor area, or 1 space
including, libraries, museums, and      for each 2 employees per largest
similar places of assembly              working shift, whichever is greater
                                        2 parking spaces for each 100 square
Drive-in establishments                 feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space
                                        for each employee per largest working
                                        shift
                                        1 parking space for each 2 beds, or
Group housing, including rooming and    each 2 sleeping units, rooming units or
boarding houses, dormitories, elderly   dwelling units in the case of elderly
housing, fraternities, and sororities   housing, plus 1 space for each employee
                                        per largest working shift
Hotel or motel                          1 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for each
                                        sleeping unit
Indoor theater                          1 for each 6 seats
                                        1 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for each
Motor bus or passenger station          ten seats in waiting room. Other retail
                                        uses in connection therewith shall
                                        provide 1 space for each 2 employees
Newspaper publishing                    1 per employee on largest shift
Open-air type business uses, including  1 parking space for each employee per
auto and boat sales, kennels, plant     largest working shift, plus 2 spaces
nurseries, and commercial amusement     for each service stall
establishments
                                        1 parking space for each 2 employees
Philanthropic and charitable            per largest working shift, plus an
institutions                            adequate number of spaces to serve the
                                        public
                                        Space to accommodate 50% of the active
                                        membership at 1 space per each 3
                                        members, or as determined by the Board
Private (or commercial) club or lodge    
                                        The determination shall be based upon
                                        the particular lodge or club use would
                                        require to satisfy estimated peak
                                        parking load requirements
Radio and television studios            1 per employee, plus 1 for each 6 seats
                                        in main auditorium
                                        As required in the applicable sections
                                        of this chapter:
                                         
                                        Farm house or farm dwelling: 2
Residential uses                        Manufactured home: 2
                                        Multi-family dwelling (or apartment
                                        building): 2 for each dwelling unit
                                        Single-family dwelling: 2
                                        Two-family dwelling: 2 for each unit
                                        Elementary or junior high: At least 3
                                        parking spaces shall be provided for
                                        each classroom
                                         
                                        High school: At least 6 parking spaces
                                        shall be provided for each classroom
                                         
                                        Sports area: At least 1 space shall be
Schools, public and private (education  provided for each five seats when the
institution)                            facility is of an independent nature.
                                        When such facility is utilized in
                                        conjunction with a school, either the
                                        parking requirement based on scaling
                                        capacity of the largest single facility
                                        contained herein or the above
                                        requirement based on classroom number
                                        shall be applicable, whichever results
                                        in the greater number of spaces
                                        1 for each 3 employees or occupants.
Storage warehouse or wholesale          The maximum number of employees or
establishment                           occupants to be used in determining
                                        spaces
Notes:
For uses not specified in this division (D), or in such instances when the
requirement for an adequate number of spaces is unclear or not specified in
another part of this chapter or for special exceptions, or a unit development
plan, and the like, the number of parking spaces shall be determined by the
Executive Director or the Board of Zoning Appeals, whatever the case may be, on
the basis of similar requirements, the number of persons served or employed,
and the capability of adequately serving the visiting public. Such
determination, if made by the executive director, may be appealed to the Board
of Zoning Appeals
 
In case of conflict between the provisions of this division (D), the higher
requirement shall govern
 
For purposes of determining off-street parking requirements under this division
(D), GROSS FLOOR AREA shall mean the total horizontal areas of the one or
several floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to such use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such
as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods or to offices;
provided, however, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall not include that area devoted
entirely and permanently to storage purposes, parking and loading facilities,
or space used for restrooms, utilities, or elevator shafts
 
   (E)   Off-site parking facilities.
      (1)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be provided
hereinafter. The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to grant an off-
site parking facility as a special exception in accordance with the following
conditions and the requirements of §
153.014.
      (2)   A development plan for such off-site parking facility shall be
filed with the Board as a required exhibit accompanying the special exception
application and shall be made part of the conditions of any approval therefor.
Said development plan shall demonstrate compliance with all applicable
standards of this chapter, shall be amended and re-approved to indicate any
change or other modification of uses served, or number of parking spaces
provided therefor, and shall indicate:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys, and lots;
         (b)   All individual primary uses to be served, including the
location, use, and number of parking spaces for each such use;
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale of aisles and driveways, entrances,
exits, and turn-off lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities, and
landscaping and buffer screening; and
         (d)   Type of lighting and pavement proposed, and identification signs
including location, size, and design thereof.
      (3)   Off-site parking facilities shall be provided with setback
distances equivalent to the requirements of the district, and ingress and
egress points shall be limited to protect the function of adjoining streets.
      (4)   Off-site parking facilities shall be encumbered by an instrument
duly executed and acknowledged, which subject said accessory off-street parking
facilities to the parking use served. Said instrument shall specify and bind
the time period to the anticipated life of the building or use to which the
parking facilities are accessory. Said instrument shall be filed in the
applicable improvement location permit files of the Area Plan Commission’s
office, and placed on public record in the office of the County Recorder.
      (5)   Off-site parking facilities shall be developed in accordance with
the provisions of division (F) below.
      (6)   Further, said facilities shall be developed under such conditions
imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals as to protect residential districts and
maintain at a minimum the disturbance to nearby residential uses.
   (F)   Development standards.
      (1)   All off-street parking areas for four or more automobiles shall be
developed in accordance with the standards of this section, except in the case
of one-, two-family and multi-family dwellings, agricultural, and rural uses,
and storage of vehicular merchandise not counting toward the minimum
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be so designed, arranged,
and regulated, as to have individual spaces marked; be unobstructed; and have
access to an aisle or driveway so that any automobile may be moved without
moving another; and so that no maneuvering directly incidental to entering or
leaving a parking space shall be on any public right-of-way or walkway.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building. In any instance when a building is constructed or used for parking
faculties on the lot, said building shall be treated as any major structure and
subject to all requirements thereof.
      (4)   No repair work, sales, or service of any kind shall be permitted in
association with accessory off-street parking facilities unless such facilities
are enclosed in a building and otherwise permitted in the district.
      (5)   All open off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with an all-
weather paving material capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds, or
improved with concrete or a compacted macadam base and surfaced with an
asphaltic pavement, to adequately provide a durable and dust-free surface which
shall be maintained in good condition and free of weeds, dirt, trash, and
debris, except that:
         (a)   A gravel surface may be used for a period not exceeding one year
after the date of granting the certificate of occupancy where ground conditions
are not immediately suitable for permanent surfacing as specified above; and
         (b)   A gravel surface in the area of storage or handling may be used
permanently in association with industries that handle liquids or chemicals
which create a potential hazard if containment should be lost and where
absorption into the ground through a loose surface material would eliminate or
alleviate such hazard.
      (6)   Driveway entrances or exits shall be no closer than 25 feet to any
adjoining residential property line or ten feet to an adjoining nonresidential
property line or designed in such a manner as to least interference with
traffic movement. No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line
of the street shall exceed a width of 30 feet; provided, however, two driveways
not exceeding 30 feet in width each may constitute a single entrance-exit
divider designed driveway; provided, further, that such driveways shall conform
to the requirements of the County Highway Department or the Town of Vevay
Street Department or Town of Patriot, as the case may be.
      (7)   In any district, each use which is so located that it fronts upon
and provides access to an arterial thoroughfare shall provide a frontage lane
paralleling and adjoining the improved part of the right-of-way at least 11
feet in width for turn traffic entering the lot. Such frontage lane shall be at
least 100 feet in length, exclusive of the entrance way and taper area;
provided, however, if the lot frontage is too small to meet such requirement,
the frontage lane shall extend the entire width of the lot.
      (8)   Any lighting facilities used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be so located, shielded, and directed upon the parking area in such a
manner that they do not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent properties or
interfere with street traffic. In no instance shall bare unshaded bulbs be used
for such illumination.
      (9)   Such parking areas shall be graded and property drained in such a
manner that there will be no free flow or water onto either adjacent property
or public sidewalks. Further, any additional runoff generated by such improved
areas shall be disposed of in appropriate drainage facilities.
      (10)   Such parking areas shall be so lined or designated as to ensure
the most efficient use of the parking spaces, and provided with bumper guards
or wheel guards so located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend
beyond the boundary of the established parking area into any minimum required
yard or onto adjoining property.
      (11)   No business signs or advertisements shall be permitted in parking
areas; provided, however, directional, and identification signs shall be
permitted in accordance with §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (12)   Parking areas located in the business and industrial districts
shall be provided with a landscape screen not less than four feet in height
whenever the parking area is located within 100 feet of adjoining residential
uses or fronting upon any adjoining residential uses, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
      (13)   The ground area between the required off-street parking area
setback and any lot line shall be landscaped with appropriate material to
adequately indicate delineation.
      (14)   Parking areas may be provided with a one-story shelter building or
guard building which shall not exceed 100 square feet of gross floor area and
shall conform to all the structural requirements of the district.
   (G)   Loading requirements.
      (1)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or
more shall provide off-street loading spaces in accordance with the following
table; provided, that loading spaces shall not be required for uses which do
not receive or transmit goods or wares by truck delivery.
 
Use Description            Floor Area in Square Feet  Number of Loading Spaces
                                                      Required
Manufacturing,             5,000—25,000             1
distribution, wholesaling, 25,001—50,000            2
storage, and similar uses  60,001—100,000           3
                           Each 50,000 above 100,000  1
Office buildings, hotels   5,000—60,000             1
and motels, retail sales,  60,001—100,000           2
hospitals, institutions,   Each 100,000 above 100,000 1
and similar uses
 
      (2)   Off-street loading areas shall be developed in accordance with the
standards in division (F) above.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.025  PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Automotive vehicles. An automotive vehicle or trailer of any type
without current license plates or in an inoperable condition so as to be deemed
dead storage or an “abandoned vehicle” shall not be permitted for a period not
longer than 30 days in residential districts other than in completely enclosed
buildings and shall not be parked or stored in any district unless specifically
authorized. See definition of “abandoned vehicle”, §
153.004.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles. The parking of a commercial self-propelled
vehicle in residential zone districts shall be prohibited, except as set forth
in §
153.066(C)(2),  and provided further, except that one commercial vehicle of not
more than three-ton capacity may be parked on any lot on which there is located
a principal building; provided, such vehicle is parked in an enclosed garage,
accessory building, or rear yard and is used by a resident of the premises.
This requirement shall not be interpreted to prohibit commercial vehicles from
temporary loading and unloading in any residential district.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.026  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and general welfare.
The County Area Plan Commission has given consideration to the existing and
future probable use of land in the territory affected by this chapter, and has
prepared a comprehensive plan showing the future development of this area,
which has served as a guide in the preparation of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-interference with greater restrictions otherwise imposed. It is
not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, nor any ordinances,
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued and which are not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, except that, where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or
upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces or greater lot
area per family than are required or imposed by such easements, covenants, or
agreements between parties, or by such ordinance, rules, regulations, or
permits, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (C)   Use. No building or land shall be used and shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, which is arranged, intended, or
designed to be used for any purpose other than a use which is permitted and
specified in a district in which such building or land is located.
   (D)   Height. No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally
altered to exceed in height the limits established and specified for the use
and the district in which such building is located. See §
153.021.
   (E)   Yard, lot area, and size of building. No building shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce in any manner, the yards, lot area per family, ground floor area of
dwellings, or lot coverage provisions established and specified for the use and
the district in which such building is located.
   (F)   Parking space; loading and unloading; berths. For each building
hereafter erected and for certain other uses of land, parking spaces for motor
vehicles and loading and unloading berths as specified for the use to which
such building or land is to be devoted shall be provided, except that parking
spaces may not be required for business or industrial uses in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.024(B)(13), but it is the intent of this chapter to encourage the
establishment of adequate parking spaces wherever normally required by this
chapter.
   (G)   Building relocated. No building or structure shall be moved from one
lot or premises to another unless such building and lot shall thereupon conform
to all the regulations of the zone district to which such building be moved.
   (H)   Farms exempt. Except for farm houses or farm dwellings, which include
dwellings for the farm owner, operator, or farm assistants, classified as a
contingent use (see §
153.065), and grain elevators and related uses, produce stands, sales barn for
livestock, and restricted commercial farm enterprises (including confined
feeding operations, see §
153.004, which are all farm related activities set forth as special exceptions
(see §
153.014); land application operations: as defined in §
153.004 which are not permitted (see division (I) below); land, farm barns,
farm outbuildings, or other buildings, structures, or erections which are
adapted, by reason of nature and area, for use for agricultural purposes as a
primary means of livelihood, while so used, shall not be affected by
restrictions or regulations of this chapter.
   (I)   Land application operations are not permitted. Land application
operations as defined in §
153.004 are not permitted in any district or zone because of problems
associated with applying sludge as defined in §
153.004 on cropland; specifically:
      (1)   Sludge contains constituents that are either non-essential or
potentially detrimental to crops and animals (including humans) consuming the
crops;
      (2)   Sludge contains compounds not required by plants;
      (3)   Possibilities exist for leaching and excessive movement of nitrate-
nitrogen from surface soils into ground water;
      (4)   Potential of disease transmission to animals due to bacteria
parasites or viruses present in sludge;
      (5)   Contamination of crops by persistent organics, such as PCBs or
chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides;
      (6)   Contamination of crops with cadmium; and
      (7)   Reduced plant yields and soil productivity caused by heavy metals
such as lead, copper, zinc, and nickel; provided, that any person, including
the owner of the farmland or cropland designated as an application site, who
has an ongoing land application operation in the county on or before the date
of passage of this chapter, may continue such operation if the requirements of
the State Department of Environmental Management are met. The provisions herein
are not intended to preclude an operation in the county in which sludge, waste
products, or waste water are generated by industrial, municipal, or semi-public
facilities.
   (J)   Public utility installations exempt. Structures and land use for
public utility installations so defined herein, while so used, shall not be
affected by restrictions or regulations of this chapter; provided, however,
terminal facilities and treatment or processing plants for residential
developments are contingent uses, but a sewage treatment facility (primary use)
or a major transmission line or a water storage tank is a special exception and
is subject to the provisions of this chapter. See §
153.014(G)(62) for transmission lines.
   (K)   Mineral extraction. Each Plan Commission, legislative body, and Board
of Zoning Appeals in an urbanized or urbanizing area (as defined in I.C. 14-4-
9-18) shall comply with the provisions of I.C. 14-4-9-19 before permitting a
land use that would threaten the potential extraction of aggregate in an area
underlain by a deposit of qualified mineral resources (as defined in I.C. 14-4-
9-14). See §
153.050, MR Mineral Reserve District.
   (L)   Amendments. All amendments to or repealers of this chapter shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
DISTRICTS
§ 153.040  A-1 PRIME AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to protect and encourage agricultural uses of land
by controlling indiscriminate development of urban-type uses. Residences are
permitted on large lots with wide frontage, but residential subdivisions are
not permitted, except as provided in § 152.04(d) (of the Area Subdivision
Control Code). Generally, the Prime Agriculture District is located where the
soil types are most conducive to agricultural operations. All types of
agricultural uses or uses akin to agricultural operations are permitted, either
outright or by special exception, depending upon their impact upon neighboring
uses.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Manufactured home;
      (4)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (5)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (6)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066;
      (7)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067; and
      (8)   A farmstead lot of not less than one acre with yard requirements
the same as those required for a single-family dwelling located in the A-
2 Agriculture District.
   (B)   Other requirements for the A-1 District.
      (1)   Lot and area, ground floor area, height, lot width, lot coverage,
and front, side, and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (3)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through §
153.104.
      (6)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
   (C)   Method for reclassifying an A-1 District to an A-2 District for
subdivision purposes.
      (1)   If an applicant for a residential subdivision of land, as set forth
in the Subdivision Code proposed to be located in an area covered by an A-
1 District, can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Plan Commission that
such land is actually located in an area having primarily Group III and/or
Group IV Soils in accordance with the criteria and findings in the National
Cooperative Soil Survey prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil
Conservation Service in cooperation with the Purdue Experimental Station and
the County Soil and Water Conservation District, the Plan Commission may then
initiate an amendment to this chapter on its own motion in order to cause the
area proposed to be subdivided to be reclassified on the zone map to the A-
2 District; provided, that certain other requirements have been met by the
applicant:
         (a)   The county road from which access is gained to the proposed
subdivision is paved properly in accordance with the standards of the County
Highway Department, or the applicant may pave such road at his or her expense;
         (b)   The plan for off-site drainage proposed meets the approval of
the County Drainage Board of Commissioners, and the expense of the drainage
will be borne by the subdivider (three-year bond); and
         (c)   The site is located in a woods or in an area topographically or
otherwise unfit for agricultural operations.
      (2)   The general criteria of soils of the county that have the best
potential for homesites:
         (a)   Do not flood or pond;
         (b)   Moderately well-drained, well-drained, or excessively drained;
         (c)   Slopes of 2% to 12%;
         (d)   Bedrock deeper than 60 inches; and
         (e)   Have an acceptable soil analysis.
      (3)   Criteria of soils included in prime farmland map units of the
county that do not qualify as prime farmland and that have the best potential
for homesites:
         (a)   A soil that has an unfavorable texture and growing season for
agronomic crops;
         (b)   A soil that has an inadequate and/or independable water supply
in the upper 40 inches of the soil; or the water table is not maintained or
cannot be managed so that all of the soil horizons within 40 inches have
adequate available water for plant growth during the cropping season; and
         (c)   Soil that has coarse or moderately coarse texture in the surface
and subsoil.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.041  A-2 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   This District is located generally in agricultural areas where soil types
are conducive to agricultural operations and where residential uses either have
taken place and are anticipated to do so with a minimum lot area of one acre.
Residential subdivisions are permitted with large lots; however, all types of
agricultural uses or uses akin to agricultural operations may be permitted,
either outright or by special exception, depending upon their impact upon
neighboring uses.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Manufactured home;
      (4)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (5)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (6)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (7)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the A-2 District.
      (1)   Lot area, ground floor area, height, lot width, lot coverage, and
front, side, and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (3)   Additional height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (6)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.042  FR FOREST-RECREATION DISTRICT.
   This District is designed to include areas of rolling and rugged topography
and public and forest lands.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Manufactured home;
      (4)   Special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (5)   Contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (6)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (7)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the FR District.
      (1)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage, and front,
side, and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (3)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (6)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.043  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   This District is designed to permit medium-density single-family and two-
family residential development, and is adaptable to urban and suburban
locations.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Manufactured home;
      (5)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (6)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (7)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (8)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the R-1 District.
      (1)   Lot area, ground floor area, height, lot width, lot coverage, and
front, side, and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (3)   Additional height requirements are set forth in Figure 1 and §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (6)   See §
153.016 fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.044  R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   The R-2 Multi-Family Residence District is intended to provide for medium to
high density residential areas. This District may be used as a transitional
area between residential and nonresidential areas while at the same time
providing for multi-family housing in a predominantly low-density urban area.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling (multi-family dwelling or apartment for or
occupied by more than four families in a special exception in the R-
2 District);
      (5)   Manufactured home;
      (6)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (7)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (8)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (9)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the R-2 District.
      (1)   Lot area, ground floor area, height, lot width, lot coverage, and
front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (3)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (4)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (5)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (6)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements.
      (7)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit by the
Executive Director, written approval of the building plans must have been
received from the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, for all
residential structures of three or more units.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.045  LB LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The Local Business District is designed to meet the day-to-day convenience
shopping and service needs of persons living in nearby residential areas. Uses
allowed in this District will, in general, be a less intense use than those
allowed in the PB or GB Districts.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (5)   Manufactured home;
      (6)   Local business uses which are primarily of a retail or service
nature and specifically classified or implied in the following categories of
uses. (Note: local business uses, pursuant to divisions (A)(6)(a) through (A)
(6)(m) below shall be conducted within buildings so constructed that no noise
of any kind produced therein shall be audible beyond the confines of the
building):
         (a)   Automobile service, including:
            1.   Public garage, but not including major repair or body work;
            2.   Sales room (including mobile home or trailer sales area); and
            3.   Repair (all indoors).
         (b)   Business service, including:
            1.   Bank;
            2.   Office building;
            3.   Postal station;
            4.   Telegraph office;
            5.   Telephone exchange or public utility substation; and
            6.   Utility company business office.
         (c)   Clothing service, including:
            1.   Laundry agency;
            2.   Self-service laundry and dry cleaning;
            3.   Dry cleaning establishment using not more than three clothes-
cleaning units, which shall use cleaning fluid which is non-explosive and non-
flammable;
            4.   Dressmaking;
            5.   Millinery;
            6.   Tailor and pressing shop; and
            7.   Shoe repair shop.
         (d)   Equipment service:
            1.   Radio or television shop and sales;
            2.   Electric appliance shop and sales; and
            3.   Record shop and sales.
         (e)   Food service, including:
            1.   Grocery;
            2.   Meat market;
            3.   Supermarket;
            4.   Restaurant;
            5.   Delicatessen;
            6.   Cold storage lockers, for individual use; and
            7.   Bakery, provided floor area used for production shall not
exceed 750 square feet.
         (f)   Personal service, including:
            1.   Barber shop;
            2.   Beauty shop;
            3.   Physical fitness facility; and
            4.   Photographic studio.
         (g)   Retail service, retail stores, generally including:
            1.   Drugstore;
            2.   Hardware or paint store;
            3.   Stationer;
            4.   Newsdealer;
            5.   Show room and sales area for articles to be sold at retail;
            6.   Apparel shop;
            7.   Antique shop;
            8.   Shoe store;
            9.   Variety store;
            10.   Toy store;
            11.   Jewelry store;
            12.   Mower or garden shop;
            13.   Commercial greenhouse not exceeding 1,000 square feet in
area; and
            14.   Gift shop.
         (h)   Business recreational uses, including:
            1.   Billiard room;
            2.   Dancing academy;
            3.   Tavern or night club, only in conformity with requirements of
laws or ordinances governing such use; and
            4.   Bait sales.
         (i)   Club or lodge (commercial);
         (j)   Farm implement (machinery) (new or used) sales and service area
or building;
         (k)   Mortuary;
         (l)   Pet shop;
         (m)   Studio, business (art, interior decorating, music, and the
like); and
         (n)   Accessory building or use customarily incident to the above uses
which may not have more than 40% of its floor area devoted to storage purposes,
and; provided, that not more than five persons are employed at one time or on
any one shift in connection with such incidental use.
      (7)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (8)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (9)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (10)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the LB District.
      (1)   For local business uses, each lot shall have at least 40 feet of
frontage on a street. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements for local
business uses.
      (2)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, height, lot
width, lot coverage, and front, side, and rear yard requirements are set forth
in Figure 1. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements for
residential uses.
      (3)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space, requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements.
      (6)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (7)   See §
153.022 for supplementary business standards.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.046  PB PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This District is designed to encourage well-planned business uses,
particularly with respect to unified design, safe ingress and egress, adequate
and properly located parking, and service facilities and convenient and safe
pedestrian accessibility.
   (A)   General provisions. The uses set forth in division (B) below shall be
permitted by the Executive Director without a hearing or consideration by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, if he or she ascertains that the application for an
improvement location permit for the proposed use in the PB Planned Business
District meets all of the requirements herein, and the basic requirements of §
153.014(B)(1) and all other requirements set forth in this chapter pertaining
to the proposed use; provided, a public notice and notice to interested
property owners of filing the improvement location permit, describing the
location and nature of the proposed use, shall be published in accordance with
the rules of the Board of Zoning Appeals at least ten days prior to any action
being taken thereon by the Executive Director. If the Executive Director
determines that the proposed use is not in accordance with the requirements, he
or she shall deny the application for an improvement location permit, and the
applicant may make application for a special exception, which shall be
processed in accordance with the requirements set forth in §
153.014 for a planned business use in the PB District. Or, if objections from
property owners are elicited by the required notices, the Executive Director
shall require that the application be processed as a special exception in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
153.014 for a planned business use in the PB District, and additional notice
shall be required. All applications for any use in the PB Planned Business
District shall include a development plan, and the following additional
requirements shall be adhered to.
      (1)   A greenbelt or lawn area at least 20 feet in width and abutting the
property line on the lot which is proposed in the PB District shall be provided
on the particular side or rear of a lot where a PB District use adjoins an A-1,
A-2, FR, R-I, or R-2 District or land used for residential purposes. A planting
screen consisting of suitable shrubbery shall be provided and maintained within
the greenbelt or lawn area so as to provide a tight screen, effective at all
times of the year. The locations and names of the shrubbery planting shall be
indicated on the development plan or on a separate landscape plan which shall
become a part of the application. The shrubbery may be planted informally or in
a row and may include several varieties and sizes; provided, that the Board
shall be satisfied that the shrubbery will screen any parking areas and
expected ground activity from the view of the abutting property, and also that
vision clearance at access points shall be provided for safety purposes.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces and accessory uses such as filling
stations pumps and islands, signs, and light standards, and access drives may
be located in the required front yard, but not within 20 feet of the front lot
line; provided, that the access drives may connect with the frontal street, and
provided also that the described 20-foot strip of land shall be maintained as a
lawn area with occasional tree and shrub plantings.
      (3)   On properties fronting on state highways or on any other “arterial
streets” (see definitions of “street, arterial” and “comprehensive plan” in §
153.004) as shown on the thoroughfare plan map, the front yard shall have a
depth of at least 80 feet. Furthermore, a greenbelt or lawn area of at least 20
feet in depth and abutting the front lot line of such properties shall be
maintained as lawn, except for prescribed accessways. (See divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above.) On through lots, building lines, and greenbelts or lawn areas
shall be provided as herein described. On all other types of streets, the
building line for uses proposed in the PB Planned Business District shall be
established at least 25 feet from the front lot line, and the side yard
dimension on the side street side of a corner lot shall be at least 25 feet
measured from the side lot line which either exists or is proposed to exist as
the line of a future street; provided, that greenbelts or lawn areas are not
required for those streets.
      (4)   Entrances and exists shall be located so as to minimize any adverse
effect on adjacent properties. Access driveways shall not be wider than 40 feet
at their point of intersection with a street. The requirements of §
153.022(B) apply to traffic access points and service roads.
      (5)   No structure or building, driveway, or accessory use shall be
located closer than ten feet to any side or rear lot tine.
      (6)   Locations of easements and proposed utility lines and structures
for storm drainage, sanitary sewers, electric power, water mains, and so on,
including a statement or indications concerning the approximate size or
capacity and the proposed operation of utilities to be installed, shall be
included in the application.
      (7)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces and loading berths
required for planned business uses shall be determined in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
153.024. The requirements for off-street parking spaces and loading berths for
other types of uses shall be the same as the requirements set forth in this
chapter for the particular type of use.
      (8)   Buildings may be erected to a height of 45 feet.
      (9)   Except for the sales of gasoline or oil or other related products
at filling stations, displays outside of buildings shall require the approval
of the Executive Director or Board, as the case may be.
      (10)   Outside storage, including continued storage of automobile,
trucks, or trailers for hauling purposes, is not a permitted use in the PB
District.
      (11)   Except for dwellings, more than one principal building and its
accessory building(s) or use(s) shall be permitted on one lot in the PB
District.
      (12)   Any other authority required when applicable, such as State Board
of Health and State Highway Department, shall accompany the application for any
use in the PB District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Local business uses;
      (2)   General business uses, (A)(8)(b), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i);
      (3)   Single-family dwelling;
      (4)   Two-family dwelling;
      (5)   Manufactured home;
      (6)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (7)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (8)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (9)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (C)   Other Requirements for the PB District.
      (1)   For planned business uses, each lot shall have at least 100 feet of
frontage on a street. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements for planned
business uses.
      (2)   For residential uses the lot area, ground floor area, height, lot
width, lot coverage, and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth
in Figure 1. (The requirements for residential uses in the PB District are the
same as those in the R-1 District.) See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional requirements for residential
uses.
      (3)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements.
      (6)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (7)   See §
153.022 for supplementary business standards.
      (8)   See Figure 1 for additional business use requirements.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.047  GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This District provides sites for heavier types of business and commercial
uses as well as enclosed industrial uses.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (5)   Manufactured home;
      (6)   Local business uses;
      (7)   Planned business uses;
      (8)   General business uses specifically stated or implied in the
following categories:
         (a)   Local business uses;
         (b)   Planned business uses;
         (c)   Storage warehouse;
         (d)   Wholesale establishment;
         (e)   Enclosed industrial uses;
         (f)   Truck service center;
         (g)   Open sales lot;
         (h)   Passenger station; and
         (i)   Any business use not specifically staled or implied elsewhere in
this chapter.
      (9)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (10)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (11)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.065; and
      (12)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the GB District.
      (1)   For general business uses, each lot shall have at least 40 feet of
frontage on a street. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements for general
business uses.
      (2)   For residential uses, the lot area, height, ground floor area, lot
width, lot coverage, and front, side and rear yard requirements are set forth
in Figure 1. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements for
residential uses.
      (3)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021;
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024;
      (5)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements.
      (6)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104; and
      (7)   See §
153.022 for supplementary business standards.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.048  I-1 ENCLOSED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The I-1 Enclosed Industrial District is established to provide for
industrial expansion, and is one in which manufacturing, fabricating,
processing, extraction, repairing, dismantling, storage, or disposal of
equipment, raw materials, manufactured products, or wastes is conducted
entirely within enclosed buildings of any size, provided, that such use shall
conform to the performance standards set forth herein. Screening of storage,
parking, and loading areas is essential in this District as it may often be
located adjacent to residential areas and may serve as a buffer between the I-
2 Industrial Districts and business or residential districts. Business uses are
not permitted in this District, and provided further that material storage
(open) may be permitted as an exception.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses;
      (2)   Single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Manufactured home;
      (4)   Enclosed industrial uses specially stated or implied in the
following categories:
         (a)   Enclosed industrial uses including processing, refining,
repairing of goods, materials, or products;
         (b)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational, or industrial
training facilities, data processing, or analysis;
         (c)   Enclosed wholesaling, warehousing packaging, storage, or
distribution facilities (including commercial greenhouses);
         (d)   General offices associated with an industrial use, including
service facilities for employees or guests; provided, however, any service
facilities shall be entirely enclosed within a building;
         (e)   Printing, lithographing, publishing, or photography
establishments; and
         (f)   Utility installations and facilities.
      (5)   Applicable special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (6)   Applicable contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (7)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (8)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the I-1 District.
      (1)   For enclosed industrial uses, each lot shall have at least 100 feet
of frontage on a street or service road; provided, that lots may be combined
into a tract development with adequate access, in which case the frontage of
the tract shall be at least 200 feet. See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements and planting
screen requirements for interchange business uses.
      (2)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (3)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (4)   The total floor area of the enclosed industrial building or
buildings shall not exceed 60% of the lot area.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (6)   See Figure 1 for additional industrial use requirements.
   (C)   Performance standards for enclosed industrial uses.
      (1)   Prohibitions.
         (a)   No activity involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture
of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted,
unless specifically approved by the County Board of Commissioners if the
activity is proposed to be located in the unincorporated territory and by the
applicable Town Council if the activity is proposed to be located in a town.
         (b)   Such activity shall be conducted in accordance with the rules
promulgated by the State Fire Marshal. Such materials shall include, but are
not limited to, all primary explosives such as lead aside, lead styphnate,
fulminates, and tetracene; all high explosives such as TNT, TDX, HMX, PETN, and
picric acid; propellants and components thereof, such as nitrocellulose, black
powder, boron hydrides, hydrazine, and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and
fireworks such as magnesium powder, potassium chlorate, and potassium nitrate;
blast explosives such as dynamite and nitroglycerine; unstable organic
compounds such as acetyrides, terazoles, and oxonides; strong oxidizing agents
such as liquid oxygen, perchloric acid, perchlorate, chlorates, and hydrogen
peroxide in concentrations greater than 35%; and nuclear fuels, fissionable
materials, and products; and reactor elements such as Uranium 235 and Plutonium
239.
      (2)   Exceptions. The restrictions of this division (C)(2) shall not
apply to:
         (a)   The activities of site preparation or construction, maintenance,
repair, alteration, modification, or improvement of buildings, equipment, or
other improvements on or within the lot line;
         (b)   The operation of motor vehicles or other facilities for the
transportation of personnel, materials, or products;
         (c)   Conditions beyond the control of the user, such as fire,
explosion, accidents, failure, or breakdown of equipment or facilities or
emergencies; and
         (d)   Safety or emergency warning signals or alarms necessary for the
protection of life, limb, or property.
      (3)   Outdoor storage.
         (a)   Outdoor storage which is used as an accessory use to an enclosed
industrial use in the I-1 District, may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals provided the said storage is located behind the building line and in
such a manner that it cannot be seen from the frontal street or a side street.
         (b)   Screen plantings or fences or walls not to exceed eight feet in
height may be employed to screen storage areas from view.
      (4)   Smoke. The emission of more than 70 smoke units per hour per stack
and emissions in excess of Ringelmann No. 2 are prohibited, except that for
one-hour period during any 24-hour period, this rate may be increased to 80
smoke units per hour per stack up to and including Ringelmann No. 3 for the
purposes of process purging, soot blowing, and fire cleaning.
      (5)   Particulate matter.
         (a)   The rate of particulate matter from an individual process within
the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a figure of 0.06 pounds of effluent
gas.
         (b)   Not more than 50% by weight of particles larger than 44 microns
(325 mesh) shall be allowed.
      (6)   Odor. Any activity or operation which releases odors to the
atmosphere shall be so controlled as to ensure that it will produce no public
nuisance or hazard at or beyond the nearest residence district boundary line.
      (7)   Poisonous and injurious fumes and gases. The emission of toxic or
injurious fumes and gases shall be controlled so as to comply with the
following: the emission from any source shall not cause at or beyond any lot
line, concentrations of toxic and/or injurious fumes, and gases in excess of
10% of the threshold limit set for the fume or gas in question in the
“Threshold Limit Values for Toxic Materials in Industry”, issued by the State
Board of Health, from the American Conference of Governmental Hygienists,
latest issue.
      (8)   Glare and heat. No operation, activity or structure shall cause
heat or glare in such a manner as to be a public nuisance at or beyond any
residence or business district boundary.
      (9)   Vibration. Any use creating intense earth-shaking vibrations such
as are created by a heavy drop forge shall be set back from a residence
district boundary at least 250 feet, or at least 150 feet from a business
district boundary.
      (10)   Noise. At no point 125 feet from the boundary of an I-1, I-2, or
GB District, which permits an enclosed industrial use, shall the sound pressure
level of any operation or plant (other than background noises produced by
sources not under the control of this chapter) exceed the decibel limits in the
octave bands designated as follows.
Enclosed Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (in Decibels) 125 Level (in Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles per Second)    Feet from District      from District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
Enclosed Industrial Use
                       Maximum Permitted Sound Maximum Permitted Sound
Octave Band Frequency  Level (in Decibels) 125 Level (in Decibels) 125 Feet
(Cycles per Second)    Feet from District      from District Adjoining
                       Adjoining Residence     Business District Boundaries
                       District Boundaries
0 to 75                75                      80
75 to 150              70                      75
150 to 300             65                      70
300 to 600             59                      64
600 to 1,200           53                      58
1,200 to 2,400         48                      53
2,400 to 4,800         48                      49
Above 4,9000           41                      46
 
      (11)   Fire hazards. The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid
materials or products shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.049  I-2 ENCLOSED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The I-2 Enclosed Industrial District is established to include existing
developments and to provide for their expansion and is one in which
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage, or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products, or wastes is conducted entirely within enclosed buildings of any
size; provided, that such use shall conform to the performance standards set
forth herein. Screening of storage, parking, and loading areas is essential in
this District as it may be, located adjacent to residential areas. Business
uses are not permitted in this District. Material storage (open) may be
permitted as an exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The permitted uses are the same as those uses
permitted in the I-1 Enclosed Industrial District.
   (B)   Other requirements for the I-2 District. Other requirements for the I-
2 Enclosed Industrial District are the same as other requirements for uses in
the I-1 Enclosed Industrial District; provided, that Figure 1 will indicate
different yard and setback requirements for the I-2 District.
   (C)   Performance standards for I-2 enclosed industrial uses. Performance
standards for I-2 enclosed industrial uses are the same as the performance
standards for I-1 enclosed industrial uses.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.050  MR MINERAL RESERVE DISTRICT.
   This District is established to include most existing facilities for mineral
extraction or processing, or both, and the potential expansion of such
facilities.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Mineral extraction;
      (2)   Agricultural use;
      (3)   Single-family dwelling;
      (4)   Manufactured home;
      (5)   Special exceptions set forth in §
153.014;
      (6)   Contingent uses set forth in §
153.065;
      (7)   Accessory uses set forth in §
153.066; and
      (8)   Temporary uses set forth in §
153.067.
   (B)   Other requirements for the MR District.
      (1)   Lot area, ground floor area, lot width, lot coverage, and front,
side, and rear yard requirements are set forth in Figure 1.
      (2)   See §
153.015 for front yard or setback and additional yard requirements.
      (3)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021.
      (4)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024.
      (5)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104.
      (6)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements and yard exceptions.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.051  UD UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to provide more development flexibility than is
possible through the application of customary zoning regulations. In
recognition of both the rapid changes in design and technology in the building
industry and new demands in the housing market, it is deemed necessary to meet
those changes in a manner that will be consistent with the best interests of
the county and the Towns of Vevay and Patriot.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.
      (1)   To encourage a more creative approach in land and building site
planning;
      (2)   To encourage an efficient, aesthetic, and desirable use of open
space;
      (3)   To promote variety in the physical development pattern of the
community;
      (4)   To achieve flexibility and incentives for residential development
which will produce a wider range of choice;
      (5)   To encourage renewal of older areas where new development and
restoration are needed to revitalize the areas;
      (6)   To permit special consideration of property with unique features,
such as historical significance, unusual topography, landscape amenities, and
size and shape;
      (7)   To recapture by-passed land so poorly planned and developed as to
be a public liability; and
      (8)   To simplify processing of development proposals for developers and
the Plan Commission by providing for concurrent review of land use,
subdivision, public improvements, and siting considerations.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to a tract of land of at
least three acres in area for undeveloped areas within the jurisdiction of the
Plan Commission; provided, that said provisions may apply to a proposed
development in which the primary or entire use is business or enclosed
industrial use when such proposal is deemed to be in the best interests of the
county and the applicable town.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to proposed new
developments and shall not apply to any part of an area contained within a
Subdivision previously approved (and recorded) in accordance with the
requirements of the Area Subdivision Code, prior to the time of passage of the
ordinance comprising this chapter, or any unit development plan which is now
fully or partially developed, nor to any such development for which a final
authorization has been granted pursuant to a previous ordinance; provided,
however, that a petitioner may, upon application and approval of the Plan
Commission, become subject to all the benefits and burdens of this section,
subject to such rights as shall have been vested in the owners of the area
affected by development under such ordinance; provided further that any plat
shall first be vacated.
      (3)   Uses permitted in a residential unit development plan may include
and shall be limited to:
         (a)   Dwelling units in detached, semi-detached, attached, or multi-
storied structures or any combination thereof;
         (b)   Nonresidential uses of a religious, cultural, recreational, and
business or enclosed industrial character, which uses are an integral part of a
residential development logically oriented to and coordinated with the total
planned unit. Such uses shall be planned and gauged primarily for the service
and convenience of the anticipated population of the unit development; and
         (c)   No business use, nor any building devoted primarily to a
business use or enclosed industrial use, shall be built or established prior to
the residential buildings or uses it is designated or intended to serve.
      (4)   The basic land unit of a unit development is the block, parcel,
tract, combination of lots, or acreage, and not the lot; provided, however,
divisible geographic sections of the entire planned unit development may be
designated.
         (a)   A proposed unit development plan shall be designed to produce an
environment of stable and desirable character in keeping with the principles of
good neighborhood design, and must provide standards of open space, efficiency
in street patterns, and areas for parking adequate for the occupancy proposed,
or equal to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Before approval of a preliminary unit development plan, a
detailed determination of land use intensity shall be declared, and the Plan
Commission shall make a finding that said intensity is consistent with the
comprehensive development plan of current adoption and the best interest of the
county and the incorporated towns.
   (C)   Procedure. The authorization of a unit development plan shall be
subject to the procedures expressed herein.
      (1)   Upon a petition of the owners of property of 50% or more of the
area involved in the petition, or upon a petition initiated by the Plan
Commission, a preliminary plan for any area proposed for development as a unit
development plan shall be first presented to the Executive Director. At such
presentation, three copies of a preliminary plan of the proposed development,
containing the following information, shall be submitted for advice:
         (a)   Proposed dimensioned layout to scale not to exceed 100 feet
equals one inch of any streets, buildings, open space, property divisions, and
other elements basic to the proposed use in relationship to site conditions;
         (b)   Proposed locations, amounts, and types of nonresidential uses
within the area proposed to be developed;
         (c)   Proposed plan for handling vehicular traffic, parking, sewage
disposal, drainage, water supply, site perimeter treatment, and other pertinent
development features;
         (d)   The preliminary plan may be an approximate drawing, but it shall
include any other graphic mediums which will explain the features to be
contained within the development of engineering feasibility;
         (e)   If the unit development plan is to supersede an original plat or
subdivision being vacated, the original plat shall be shown by dotted lines in
relationship to the lines of the new plan, the new plan being clearly shown in
solid lines;
         (f)   The plan shall show the boundary lines of adjacent subdivided
and unsubdivided land and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be
developed, as well as the land adjacent thereto. In the case of a petition by
owners, the plan shall also show which property within the area proposed for
development is owned by such owners;
         (g)   An enumeration of covenants, in general terms, proposed to be
made a part of the unit development plan; and
         (h)   A statement expressing the order and estimated time of
development.
      (2)   Within 15 days after such presentation, the Executive Director
shall consult with the petitioner regarding the preliminary plan. After such
consultation, the petitioner may make modifications to the petition which are
deemed appropriate.
      (3)   Application for approval of the planned development shall then be
submitted to the Plan Commission with a letter of recommendation from the
Executive Director, accompanied by six copies of the preliminary plan (with
modifications, if any) and any other desired supporting documents at a regular
meeting of the Plan Commission as a petition for amendment of the Area Zoning
Code and subject to the procedures applicable thereto. The Plan Commission may
approve the plan as amended or disapprove the plan. The Plan Commission may
impose any reasonable conditions upon its approval, including the recording of
covenants. If approved, the preliminary plan with amendments, if any, shall be
stamped approved preliminary unit development plan and be signed by the
president and Secretary of the Plan Commission, and one copy shall be
permanently retained in the office of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   The approved preliminary unit development plan shall then be
certified to the Board of County Commissioners or the Town Council of Vevay or
Patriot, as the case may be, for adoption as a UD Unit Development Plan
District pursuant to the laws governing amendment of the this chapter.
      (5)   Upon adoption by the respective authority, the planned development
shall be returned to the Plan Commission which shall thereafter exercise
continuing jurisdiction. Before any development takes place, the Plan
Commission shall approve a detailed site plan, specifying the exact location,
composition, and general engineering features of all lots, drainage, sewage,
water supply facilities, recreational facilities, site perimeter treatment, and
other pertinent site development features including general locations and
features of proposed buildings. Such approval shall be conditional upon finding
by the Plan Commission that the detailed site plan is consistent with the
approved preliminary unit development plan. The approved detailed site plan
shall be stamped approved detailed unit development plan and be signed by the
President of the Plan Commission, and one copy shall be permanently retained in
the office of the Plan Commission.
         (a)   Approval of a detailed site plan shall be obtained within one
year after adoption by the Board of County Commissioners or the applicable Town
Council, unless the Plan Commission, upon proper application, for good cause
shown, grants an extension of time for such period as it deems is in the public
interest; provided, however, only the approved detailed unit development plan
shall be required within the said one-year period, and platting for recording
purposes of all or an appropriate part of the unit development plan may be
undertaken in sections or phases at a later time.
         (b)   An approved detailed unit development plan may mean and be
designated the same as a plat which has been granted secondary approval in
accordance with the requirements of the Area Subdivision Code.
         (c)   A refusal by the Plan Commission to approve a detailed site plan
shall not be construed as a denial, and any such refusal shall not operate as a
limitation on the right of the petitioner to continue to seek approval nor
shall it impair the right of the petitioner to obtain an extension of time for
approval.
         (d)   In the event that approval of a detailed site plan is not
obtained with the one-year or an approved extension of time, the Plan
Commission shall initiate an amendment to the Area Zoning Code so that the land
will be zoned into the category or categories it held before being reclassified
as a UD District.
      (6)   The Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the property
involved in phases. If such phasing is permitted, the Plan Commission may allow
the petitioner to submit partial detailed site plans which correspond to the
phases involved. Such partial detailed site plans, when approved, shall be
treated in the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an entire unit
development plan.
      (7)   Where a platting, replatting, or vacation of streets within all or
a portion of the land involved is contemplated, the Plan Commission shall
handle such matters in accordance with its regular procedures in accordance
with law.
      (8)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvements until satisfactory plans and specifications therefor have been
submitted to the Commission in accordance with the provisions of the Area
Subdivision Code, and the petitioner has, at least 24 hours in advance,
notified the Executive Director of his or her intention to begin such work, in
order that inspections may be made as the work progresses.
      (9)   In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Plan Commission
may from time to time modify the approved detailed unit development plan in a
manner consistent with the approved preliminary unit development plan, to allow
for changed circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of its original
approval.
      (10)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed
unit development plan. In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Plan
Commission shall take cognizance of any material deviations from the approved
detailed unit development plan and take appropriate enforcement action.
      (11)   Approval by the Commission shall expire after a period of five
years from the approval of a detailed unit development plan, unless the
development is 50% completed in terms of public improvements, including
streets, parks, walkways, and utility installations, in which instance an
extension of time may be granted by the Plan Commission not to exceed five
successive periods of two years each.
      (12)   All proceedings brought under this section shall be subject to the
rules of procedure of the Plan Commission, where not inconsistent with the
procedure otherwise stated herein, except that notice for proceedings related
solely to approval and modification of a detailed unit development plan.
   (D)   Abandonment or expiration. Under the abandonment of a development
authorized under this section (abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred
when no improvements have been made pursuant to the approved detailed unit
development plan for 24 consecutive months, or under the expiration of five
years from the approval by the Plan Commission of a detailed unit development
plan for a development which has not been completed or the expiration of an
extension granted by the Plan Commission), the Plan Commission shall initiate
an amendment to the Area Zoning Code so that the land will be zoned (or
reclassified) into a category or categories which most nearly approximate its
then existing use or such other zoning category or categories which it deems
appropriate.
   (E)   Recording. An approved detailed unit development plan and
modifications thereof shall be recorded in the appropriate plat books in the
office of the County Recorder within two years after approval by the Plan
Commission.
   (F)   Permit. No improvement location permit shall be issued, for a UD
District by the Executive Director unless all recording required by division
(E) above has been effected, and no certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for a UD District unless the approved detailed unit development plan, with
modifications, if any, is adhered to, all in compliance with the purposes of
the this code of ordinances, when the improvement is located in the
unincorporated area; and by the code of ordinances of the Town of Vevay, or the
Town of Patriot, as the case may be, when the improvement is located within
those towns.
   (G)   Covenants and maintenance.
      (1)   Covenants shall be required by the Commission as an ingredient for
stability and longevity of the unit development plan, and shall set forth, in
detail, provisions for the ownership and maintenance of facilities held in
common so as to reasonably ensure their continuity and conservation. Said
covenant provisions shall include special remedies in the event facilities held
in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not maintained in a condition
consistent with the best interests of the county or applicable town, and in
such event the county or applicable town shall take those remedial steps
provided for in such provisions.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including, but not limited to, the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities, and other public and semi-public purposes whenever
necessary in conformity with the comprehensive plan of current adoption. Such
covenants shall provide that if a governmental unit or agency thereof does not
proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within a specified period of
time, the covenants shall automatically terminate. If such termination occurs,
the petitioner shall then submit for approval by the Plan Commission a modified
detailed site plan for such land consistent with the approved preliminary unit
development plan. Such modified detailed site plans, when approved, shall be
treated in the same manner as approved detailed site plans for an entire unit
development plan.
      (3)   (a)   The Plan Commission may require the recording of covenants
for any other reasonable purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing
standards for development of property in a unit development plan.
         (b)   Such development standards may include, but are not limited to,
requirements as to the following:
            1.   Lot area;
            2.   Floor area;
            3.   Ratios of floor space to land area;
            4.   Area in which structures may be built (building area),
including areas for cluster type residential development without lot lines;
            5.   Open space;
            6.   Setback lines and minimum yards;
            7.   Building separations;
            8.   Height of structures;
            9.   Signs;
            10.   Off-street parking and loading and unloading areas;
            11.   Design standards; and
            12.   Phasing of development.
      (4)   The petitioner shall provide financial assurance for the
satisfactory installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or such
other assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting pursuant
to the provisions of the Area Subdivision Control Code.
      (5)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization with
direct responsibility to, and control by, the property owners involved to
provide for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities, including
private streets jointly shared by such property owners if such facilities are a
part of the unit development plan, and, in such instance, legal assurance shall
be provided which shows that the private organization is self-perpetuating and
adequately funded to accomplish its purposes.
      (6)   Common facilities which are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge to the beneficiaries thereof.
Common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and maintained
at no expense to any governmental unit.
      (7)   (a)   All private streets shall be maintained by the aforesaid
private organization in such a manner that adequate access is provided at all
times to vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation, and
public utility vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent
thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate turning area.
         (b)   Said private streets shall be developed in accordance with the
standards set forth in the Area Subdivision Control Code.
   (H)   Limitation on rezoning. The Plan Commission shall not initiate any
amendments to the Zoning Code concerning the property involved in the unit
development plan before completion of the development as long as development is
in conformity with the approved detailed unit development plan and proceeding
in accordance with the time requirements imposed herein.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.052  HD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   This is an overlapping district designed to identify and delineate those
parts of the county or towns which have been designated as historic districts
by the Board of Commissioners and Town Councils.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted in the districts underlying the HD
Historic District are permitted, subject to the requirements and procedures of
this chapter for those uses in their particular district or districts.
   (B)   Other Requirements for the HD District. Before an improvement location
permit may be issued in the HD Historic District, it shall be accompanied by a
certificate of appropriateness in accordance with the requirements promulgated
by the Historic Preservation Code.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.053  FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   The FP Floodplain District includes the SFHA or special flood hazard area
defined herein, and the FP Floodplain District is composed of three flood areas
or districts identified as floodplain, floodway, and floodway fringe.
Floodplain Districts, designated as “FP” are established to guide development
in areas where a potential for damage from floodwater exists.
   (A)   Participants.
      (1)    The county is currently participating in the regular phase of the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). This chapter will allow the county to
maintain compliance with the minimum standards of the NFIP.
      (2)   Vevay is currently participating in the regular phase of the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). This chapter will allow the town to
maintain compliance with the minimum standards of the NFIP.
      (3)   Patriot is currently participating in the regular phase of the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). This chapter will allow the town to
maintain compliance with the minimum standards of the NFIP.
   (B)   Disposition of application for permits. All improvement location or
building permit applications located in the floodway or floodplain, where the
limits of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined, are to
be forwarded to Natural Resources for appropriate review and/or approval. Local
permit applications located in the floodway fringe do not require a review from
the Department of Natural Resources due to the fact that the Executive Director
can establish a lowest floor elevation. All language referring to permitted
uses, nonconforming uses, and variances is in compliance with the state’s
minimum standards for floodplain management as found in 310 I.A.C. 6-1. The
flood insurance study, dated June, 1979 and the flood insurance rate map, dated
December 4, 1979, are adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein to be part of this
chapter.
   (C)   Authority. The State Legislature granted the power to local units of
government (I.C. 36-7-4) to control land use within their jurisdictions in
order to accomplish the following.
   (D)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to guide development in the flood
hazard areas in order to reduce the potential loss of life and property, reduce
the potential for health and safety hazards, and to reduce the potential for
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief.
      (2)   Under the authority granted to local units of government to control
land use within their jurisdiction, which includes taking into account the
effects of flooding, the county, the Town of Vevay, and the Town of Patriot,
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations in order to
accomplish the following:
         (a)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
         (b)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings
from flood damage;
         (c)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
         (d)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
         (e)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing
the potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
         (f)   To make federally-subsidized flood insurance available for
structures and their contents in the county, the Town of Vevay, and the Town of
Patriot, by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (E)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county, are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety
hazards; disruption of commerce and governmental services; extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief; and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately flood-proofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from
flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (F)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes
in part, this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected from flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (G)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard are identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in
scientific and engineering reports entitled The Flood Insurance Study
accompanied by flood insurance rate maps, and the flood boundary and floodway
maps. The flood insurance studies, et seq., on file in the office of the
Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission, Vevay, Indiana are
hereby incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out
at length herein.
   (H)   Abrogation and greater restriction. This section is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restriction; however, where the ordinance comprising this chapter and another
ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (I)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this section,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
the laws of the state.
   (J)   Warning and disclosure of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes. This section does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This section shall not create liability on the part
of the County Area Plan Commission, its Executive Director, or the County Board
of Zoning Appeals, or any officer or employee thereof or the Federal Insurance
Administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this section
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (K)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Executive Director’s interpretation
of any provision of this section or a request for a variance.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
            2.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            3.   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences,
construction of roads, or similar projects;
            4.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams, channel improvements, and the like;
            5.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
            6.   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this section.
      EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the construction or facilities for servicing the lot on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed before the effective date of this
section.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring or concrete or
the construction of streets).
      FBFM. Flood boundary and floodway map.
      FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FHBM. Flood hazard boundary map.
      FIRM. Flood insurance rate map.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD or FLOODWATER. The water of any hike or watercourse which is above
the banks and/or outside the channel and banks of such watercourse.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe district, or
any combination thereof.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zone applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided in which the Federal
Insurance Administration has provided flood profiles, as well as the flood
insurance rate maps and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake,
or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe
districts.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The elevation of the regulatory flood,
plus two feet at any given location in the SFHA.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
      FLOOD-PROOFED BUILDING. A commercial or industrial building designed to
exclude floodwater from the interior of that building. All such flood-proofing
shall be adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact,
and uplift forces and other factors associated with the regulatory flood.
      HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor useable for living purposes, which include
working, sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a special flood
hazard area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LOWEST, FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor or of buildings elevated on pilings
or constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
floodwaters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade; and
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Whenever the term MOBILE HOME PARK is used in this
section, said term shall be defined as a NEW MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME
SUBDIVISION, or an EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION,
whichever is appropriate.
      MOBILE HOME TIE-DOWNS - SCHEDULE A.
         (a)   Sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of any mobile home.
         (b)   At a minimum, such anchorage shall consist of:
            1.   Over-the-top ties to be provided at each of the four corners
of the mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring only one
additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties to be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
      NATURAL RESOURCES. The State Natural Resources Commission.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of this section.
      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this section.
      NEW MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
after the effective date of this section.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any
location is as defined in § 5 of this section. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also
known by the term BASE FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface elevation attained by the regulatory
flood.
      SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the County of Switzerland, the Town of Vevay, and the Town of Patriot that are
subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the county are
generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the county
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated January 16, 1980.
The SFHAs of Vevay are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
map of the town prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
December 4, 1979. The SFHAs of Patriot are generally identified as such on the
flood insurance rate map of the town prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated December 4, 1979.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION.
         (a)   The first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction does not
include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footing, piers or foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as
part of the main structure.
         (b)   For a structure (other than a mobile home) without a basement or
poured footing, the START OF CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing
or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation.
For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision,
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the affixing of the mobile home to its permanent
site. For mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION
is the date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on
which the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
construction of streets, either final site grading of the pouring of concrete
pads, and installation of utilities) is completed.
      STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed
by walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a pre-fabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration of a
historic structure; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this section which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
section.
   (L)   Boundaries and floodplain districts. This section’s protection
standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory flood data is
listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the
party submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data
with better data and submit it to the Department of Natural Resources for
review and approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the SFHAs of
the identified creeks shall be as delineated on the 100-year profiles in the
flood insurance study of the county dated July, 1979 and the corresponding FBFM
dated January 16, 1980 prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of the Ohio River shall be as
delineated on the flood insurance study of the county dated July 1979. The
floodway limits for the SFHAs of the Ohio River shall be according to the best
data available as provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of the Ohio River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of Vevay dated June, 1979, and the corresponding FIRM dated December 4,
1979, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The floodway limits
of the Ohio River shall be according to the best data available provided by the
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   The regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of the Ohio River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of Patriot dated June 1979, and the corresponding FIRM dated December 4,
1979, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The floodway limits
of the Ohio River shall be according to the best data available provided by the
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   The regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of those part of
unincorporated the county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the participating towns shall be as delineated on the 100- year flood profiles
in the flood insurance study of the county dated July 1979 and the
corresponding FBFM dated January 16, 1980 prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The floodway limits the Ohio River shall be according to the
best data available as provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (5)   If the SFHA is delineated as AH Zone or AO Zone, the elevation (or
depth) will be delineated on the county flood insurance rate map. If the SFHA
is delineated as Zone A on the county flood insurance rate map, the regulatory
flood elevation shall be according to the best data available as provided by
the Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   Primary uses.
      (1)   But for the FP Floodplain District, primary uses are authorized in
the districts established by or under division (L) above, as shown below.
      (2)   The following primary uses to be located in a FP Floodplain
District shall be subject to the special exception requirements of §
153.014.
         (a)   Primary use;
         (b)   Public facilities:
            1.   Public park or recreational facility-boat docks; and
            2.   Transmission lines for gas, oil, electricity, or other
utilities.
         (c)   Business uses; food sales and services; roadside food sales
stand; and
         (d)   Business uses; miscellaneous; bait sales.
   (N)   Special exceptions may be Permitted in the FP Floodplain District.
      (1)   (a)   The following exceptions may be permitted in the FP
Floodplain District only after the requirements of §
153.014(B) are complied with and after a proper permit or letter of
recommendations for the same has been granted by Natural Resources.
         (b)   All terms and conditions imposed by Natural Resources shall be
incorporated in any improvement location permit issued by the Board. The Board
may impose greater restrictions.
         (c)   All buildings or additions to existing buildings shall have
flood protection grades at least two feet above the regulatory flood profile.
      (2)   The following special exceptions are:
         (a)   Water management and use facilities, such as dams, docks,
dolphins, channel improvements, dikes, jetties, groins, marinas, piers,
wharves, levees, seawalls, floodwalls, weirs, and irrigation facilities;
         (b)   Transportation facilities, such as streets, bridges, roadways,
fords, airports, pipe lines, railroad, and utility transmission facilities;
         (c)   Temporary or seasonal floodplain occupancy, such as circus
sites, fair sites, carnival sites, boat ramps, camps, roadside stands, and
transient amusement facility sites;
         (d)   Water-related urban uses, such as wastewater treatment
facilities, storm sewers, electric generating and transmission facilities, and
water treatment facilities;
         (e)   Other flood tolerant or open space urban uses, such as flood-
proofed buildings, race tracks, tennis courts, park buildings, outdoor
theaters, fills, truck freight terminals, radio or TV towers, parking lots, and
mineral extractions;
         (f)   Mobile homes (temporary or permanent) having pads (concrete or
stands or compacted fill) at or above the regulatory flood elevation and ground
anchors meeting mobile home tie-downs; Schedule A; and
         (g)   Residential structures.
   (O)   Additional special exception requirement.
      (1)   To be eligible for the granting of a special exception listed under
this section, a person must apply for an improvement location permit under §§
153.080 through
153.082. In addition, wherever the proposed special exception is located in a
FP Floodplain District, a person must obtain a proper permit or letter of
recommendation for said proposed special exception from Natural Resources. The
Executive Director shall send each such application and, if appropriate, any
documents from Natural Resources to the Plan Commission, which shall determine
how the granting of the special exception would affect the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   (a)   Within 30 days after the date on which it receives the
application and any other required documents, the Plan Commission shall report
its determination to the Board, for action by it as authorized by §
153.014(B).
         (b)   If the Plan Commission does not report within that period, the
Board may act under §
153.014(B) without such a report.
         (c)   If the Board grants the special exception, it shall direct the
Executive Director to issue the improvement location permit for the special
exception.
   (P)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this section provided the applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
         (b)   The strict application of the terms of this section will
constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expenses, create nuisances, cause fraud, or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this section subject to the following standards and conditions.
         (a)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to divisions (R)(1) or (R)(2) below may be granted.
         (b)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to
divisions (R)(1) or (R)(2) below will require a permit from Natural Resources.
         (c)   Variances or exceptions to the Building Protection Standards of
division (S) below may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on
a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by lots
with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
         (d)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the State Survey or Historic Architectural, Archaeological and
Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
         (e)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be
such that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction.
         (f)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
increased flood insurance premiums.
   (Q)   Nonconforming uses. Any building structure or other use in a FP
Floodplain District which is not in conformance with this section constitutes a
nonconforming use.
      (1)   A nonconforming use in a FP Floodplain District may be altered,
enlarged, or extended, on a one-time only basis; provided, the procedures set
forth in this section with respect to new construction in a FP Floodplain
District are followed, and further provided, such alteration, enlargements, or
extensions do not increase the value of the building structure or other use
(excluding the value of land) by more than 40% of its pre-improvement market
value, unless such building, structure, or use is permanently changed to a
conforming use.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use in the FP Floodplain District which is
damaged by flood, fire, explosion, Act of God, or the public enemy may be
restored to its original dimensions and conditions, provided the damage does
not reduce the value of the buildings, excluding the value of the land, by more
than 40% of its pre-damage value.
   (R)   Development in SFHA. No development in the SFHA shall create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or
threat to public health and safety.
      (1)   Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary and floodway
map or the flood insurance rate map, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will cause any increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood; and
         (b)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill
(including levees), the county, the Town of Vevay, and the Town of Patriot
shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency Management Agency
revise the regulatory flood data.
      (2)   Within all SFHAs identified as A Zones (no 100-year flood elevation
and/or floodway/floodway fringe delineation has been provided) the following
standard shall apply: the total cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the regulatory flood elevation more than one-tenth of one foot and
will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
      (3)   Public health standards in all SFHAs.
         (a)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection grade, unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed storage tank or building
constructed according to the requirements of division (S) below.
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste
disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above-ground
openings are located above the FPG, or those which are located below the FPG
are water-tight.
   (S)   Protecting buildings. In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of division (R) above, all buildings to be located in the SFHA
shall be protected from flood damage below the FPG.
      (1)   This building protection requirements applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any new buildings having a floor
area greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that
increase the market value of the building by more than 50% (excluding value of
the land);
         (c)   Any subsequent alterations;
         (d)   Reconstruction or repairs made to damaged building that are
valued at or more than 50% of the market value of the building (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This section does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days.
      (2)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Executive Director shall maintain a record of compliance
with these building protection standards as required in this section.
         (a)   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
            1.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one-foot
deep before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the
Standard Proctor Test method;
            2.   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the building before sloping below the FPG;
            3.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
            4.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties; and
            5.   The top of the lowest floor including basements, (see
definition of “lowest floor” in division (K) above) shall be at or above the
FPG.
         (b)   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following.
            1.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on posts,
piers, columns, extended walls, or other types of similar foundation provided:
               a.   Walls of any enclosure below the elevated floor shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters, through providing a minimum of
two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) having a total area of one
square foot for every two square feet of enclosed area subject to flooding. The
bottom of all such opening shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
               b.   Any enclosure below the elevated floor is used for storage
of vehicles and building access.
            2.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as buoyancy, current, waves, ice,
and floating debris.
            3.   All areas below the FPG shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The top of the lowest floor (including basement) and
all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and utility meters shall be located at or above the FPG. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other water-proofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
         (c)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following anchoring requirements:
            1.   a.   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
               b.   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
                  i.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
                  ii.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
                  iii.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or
                  iv.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood.
            2.   a.   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has
not been substantially damaged by a flood.
               b.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (d)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on the site for less than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or a jacking system, attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” in division (S)
(2)(c) above.
         (e)   A nonresidential building may be flood-proofed to the FPG (in
lieu of elevating) if done in accordance with the following:
            1.   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
regulatory flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts from debris and ice;
and
            2.   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (T)   Other development requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The Executive Director shall review all proposed subdivisions
to determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood hazard area as defined
elsewhere by section. If the Executive Director finds the subdivision to be so
located, the Executive Director shall forward plans and materials to the State
Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   The Executive Director shall require appropriate changes and
modifications in order to assure that:
            1.   It is consistent with the needs to minimize flood damages;
            2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
            3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards; and
            4.   On-site waste disposal systems, if provided, will be so
located and designed to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them
during the occurrence of the regulatory flood.
      (2)   Developers shall record the 100-year flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by this section)
within a flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the
Plan Commission.
      (3)   All owners of manufactured home parks or subdivisions located
within the SFHA identified as Zone A on the community’s FMBM or FIRM shall
develop an evacuation plan for those lots located in the SFHA and file it with
the local Plan Commission and have it filed with an approved by the appropriate
community emergency management authorities.
   (U)   Improvement location permits in special flood hazard areas. No person,
firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law shall
commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining an improvement
location permit from the Executive Director. The Executive Director shall not
issue an improvement location permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this section.
      (1)   The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades; and
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed development. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). In either case
the conversion formula should be included.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit,
the Executive Director shall determine if the site is located within an
identified floodway, floodway fringe, or within the floodplain where the limits
of the floodway have not yet been determined.
         (a)   1.   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Executive
Director shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources and
apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
            2.   Under the provisions of I.C. 13-2-22, a permit from the
Natural Resources Commission is required prior to the issuance of a local
building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving, and the like undertaken before
the actual start of construction of the building.
            3.   No action shall be taken by the Executive Director until a
permit has been issued by the Natural Resources Commission granting approval
for construction in the floodway. Once a permit has been issued by the Natural
Resources Commission, the Executive Director may issue the improvement location
permit, provided the provisions contained in this section have been met. The
improvement location permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit issued
by the Natural Resources Commission.
         (b)   If the site is located in an identified floodway fringe, than
the Executive Director may issue the local improvement location permit provided
the provisions contained in this section have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be at or above the flood protection grade (FPG).
         (c)   1.   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (shown as Zone
A on the flood insurance rate map), and the drainage area upstream of the site
is greater than one square mile, the Executive Director shall require the
applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and
specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
            2.   No action shall be taken by the Executive Director until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a letter of recommendation
citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Department of Natural Resources.
            3.   Once the Executive Director has received the proper permit or
letter of recommendation approving the proposed development, an improvement
location permit may be issued provided the conditions of the improvement
location permit are not less restrictive than the conditions received from
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
         (d)   1.   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined and the
drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mite, the Executive
Director shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing
the limit of the floodway, floodway fringe, and 100-year elevation for the
site.
            2.   Upon receipt, the Executive Director may issue the improvement
location permit, provided the provisions contained in divisions (R) and (S)
above have been met.
      (3)   The degree of flood protection required by this section is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this section does not
create any liability on the part of the community, natural resources, or the
state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this section or any
administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
   (V)   Duties.
      (1)   The Area Plan Commission, acting by and through its Executive
Director, shall implement this section.
      (2)   The Executive Director is appointed to review all development and
subdivision proposals to ensure compliance with this section, including, but
not limited to, the following duties:
         (a)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the county, the Town of Vevay, and the Town of Patriot, meet
the requirements of this section;
         (b)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request
about permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
         (c)   Ensure the construction authorization has been granted by the
State Natural Resources Commission for all development projects subject to
division (R) above, and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of
actual permit or letter of recommendation);
         (d)   Maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the top of the
lowest door (including basement) of all new and/or substantially improved
buildings constructed in the SFHA. Inspect before, during, and after
construction;
         (e)   Maintain a record of the engineer’s certificate and the as-built
flood-proofed elevation of all buildings subject to division (S) above;
         (f)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies
to improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of
this section. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance
Program;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request
regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment (LOMA), letters of
map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and letters of recommendation,
federal permit documents, and as-built elevation and flood-proofing data for
all building constructed subject to this section; and
         (h)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notification to FEMA.
   (W)   Special requirement. The Commission or Board shall not issue any
permit, license, or variance for the location or occupancy of any mobile home
in a FP Floodplain District, until such time as proper notice written on lease,
deed, or purchase contract is given to the mobile home owner that such mobile
home is in a flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
USES
§ 153.065  CONTINGENT USES.
   A contingent use is one which is likely, but not certain, to occur and which
is not inappropriate to the principal uses of the district in which it may be
located.
   (A)   Contingent uses permitted. Contingent uses set forth below, including
accessory buildings and uses, are permitted in the districts indicated herein,
subject to the provisions herein, and in this chapter.
Type of Use Districts in Which Use Is Permitted*
Type of Use                              Districts in Which Use Is Permitted*
Boarding house or lodging house          R-2, LB, and GB
Church or temple                         All except FP
Education institution (except college or All except FP
university building)
Farm house or farm dwelling              All except FP
Farm seasonal working housing, tenant    A-1, A-2, FR, MP, and I-2
Fraternity, sorority, and student co-ops R-2, LB, and GB
Lodge or private club, which is of a     All except A-I, A-2, FR, and R-1
noncommercial character
Municipal, county, or governmental       All
building
Plant nurseries, truck gardens           All except R-1 and R
Public utility installation - terminal   I-1 and I-2
facility
Tourist home                             R-2, LB, and GB
Note:
All uses proposed to be located in the UD Development Plan District and the
FP Floodplain District are subject to the procedures and approvals set forth
in §
153.051 and §
153.053, respectively. Also see §
153.014, special exceptions, for specific uses with more restrictive
standards
 
   (B)   Other requirements for contingent uses.
      (1)   The front yard setback and side and rear yard requirements for
contingent uses shall be as follows.
         (a)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the A-1, A-2, FR,
MR, R-1, and R-2 Districts, the requirements shall be the same as those for a
single-family dwelling.
         (b)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the LB and GB
Districts, the requirements shall be the same as those for a multi-family
dwelling.
         (c)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the PB District,
the requirements shall be the same as those for a planned business use in the
PB District; provided, that the special exception procedure shall not apply to
a contingent use.
         (d)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the I-1 and I-
2 Districts, the requirements shall be the same as those for an enclosed
industrial use.
         (e)   For contingent uses proposed to be located in the FP District,
the Executive Director shall determine the adequacy of the setback distances.
      (2)   Height requirements are set forth in §
153.021;
      (3)   Off-street parking space requirements are set forth in §
153.024;
      (4)   Sign requirements are set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104;
      (5)   Ground floor area for a farm house or farm dwelling shall be the
same as that required for a single-family dwelling;
      (6)   See §
153.015 for additional front yard requirements; and
      (7)   See §
153.016 for fence requirements.
   (C)   Development disabilities residential facilities permitted. Development
disabilities residential facilities are permitted in any district where
dwellings are permitted; provided, that the licensing and regulation of such
facilities shall be accomplished through the State Developmental Disabilities
Residential Facilities Council, in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 16-
10-2.1 and I.C. 16-31.1.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.066  ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be permitted in all zone districts in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Accessory uses:
         (a)   Shall be incidental and subordinate to, and commonly associated
with, the operation of the principal use of the lot;
         (b)   Shall be operated and maintained under the same ownership and on
the same lot as the principal use;
         (c)   Shall be clearly subordinate in height, area, bulk, extent, and
purpose to the principal use served;
         (d)   Shall not be located closer to any lot line than the minimum
setback line required, unless specified in this chapter;
         (e)   Shall not be permitted prior to the erection and operation of
the principal use, and no accessory use shall be used unless the main building
on the lot is also being occupied for the intended purposes, unless a temporary
improvement location permit is obtained in accordance with §
153.067; however, nothing shall prevent the use of a temporary construction
facility for the storage of tools, material, and equipment by a contractor
during building construction;
         (f)   A private residential garage or accessory building shall not
exceed the living area of the primary structure; and
         (g)   No residential accessory building may be erected in front of a
main building, or in the required front yard on the side of a corner lot,
unless the accessory building is attached to the main building by a common
wall.
   (B)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Such appurtenant features as walks, driveways, curbs, drainage
installations, retaining walls, mailboxes, lamp posts, bird baths, and
structures of a like nature, are allowed without permits See §
153.053 (H);
      (2)   The growing of vegetation, provided it is not for profit, is
allowed without a permit;
      (3)   The keeping of domestic pets, provided it is not for profit and not
construed as a kennel, is allowed without permit;
      (4)   Fences, walls, and structural screens are allowed without permit
when they do not impede intersection visibility, see §
153.053(G);
      (5)   Such buildings or structures as patios, outdoor fire places,
doghouses, children’s play equipment, and also detached storage buildings, bath
houses, and cabanas not exceeding 150 square feet in size are allowed without
permit when the yard requirements of this chapter are adhered to; and
      (6)   Rummage or garage sales are allowed without permit in any district
provided there are not more than two such sales annually of not more than three
days’ duration each on the premises. Rummage or garage sales of more than
three, but not more than ten days require a temporary improvement location
permit.
   (C)   Application of accessory uses.
      (1)   Such buildings or structures as provided for in this section
including, but not limited to, private garages, carports, canopies, porte
cochere, small greenhouses, and similar accessory buildings or structures;
located not closer than five feet to any side or rear lot line (except as
otherwise provided in this chapter);
      (2)   Off-street motor vehicle parking and loading areas, as set forth in
§
153.024, “off-street parking and loading”; provided, however, for residential
uses not located in subdivisions as defined in the Area Zoning Code and one
such space may be provided for a commercial vehicle. See §
153.022(B));
      (3)   Signs, as set forth in §§
153.095 through
153.104;
      (4)   The following apply to swimming pools.
         (a)   No person shall construct, remodel, or alter any swimming pool
until a permit to do so is obtained from the Executive Director. An application
for such permit shall be filed with the Executive Director, on a form furnished
by him or her, together with the plans and specifications for such pool. The
Director shall examine such plans and specifications to determine whether or
not the pool will comply with the provisions of this chapter. If it appears
that the pool will comply therewith, he or she shall note his or her approval
on the plans and specifications and shall issue a permit authorizing the work
to proceed.
         (b)   The Executive Director is authorized to enter on any premises to
determine whether or not the owner has complied with the provisions of this
chapter.
         (c)   1.   For the purpose of this division (C), FAMILY SWIMMING POOL
shall mean and includes an artificial body of water, with a controlled water
supply, designed for wading and swimming and used, or intended to be used,
solely by the owner, or lessee thereof, and his or her family and by friends
invited to use it without payment of any fee.
            2.   a.   No family swimming pool shall be constructed except on
the same lot as the owner’s dwelling or on a vacant lot immediately contiguous
thereto if it is under the same ownership as the dwelling.
               b.   The following conditions must be met if the pool is to be
located on the same building lot as the dwelling of the owner:
                  i.    The pool must be constructed in the rear yard but not
closer at any point than ten feet from the building itself;
                  ii.   The pool must be enclosed by a fence in the manner set
forth below and at no point may the fence be closer than ten feet to any
property line;
                  iii.   A fence surrounding or partially surrounding a pool
shall not be closer than six feet to the edge of the pool at any point. See §
153.016 (G)(4)); and
                  iv.   The surface area of the pool may not exceed 25% of the
area of the rear yard.
         (d)   When a pool is located on a lot contiguous to the lot on which
the owner’s house is located and under the same ownership as the dwelling the
following conditions must be met:
            1.   No part of the pool shall be located forward of the setback
line of the owner’s dwelling;
            2.   No part of the pool shall be closer than ten feet from the
owner’s dwelling and no closer than 16 feet from any property line of any other
property owner;
            3.   No pool shall be built across any property line regardless of
the ownership thereof; and
            4.   If the contiguous lot has frontage on a street other than that
on which the owner’s dwelling is located, no part of the pool shall be forward
of the minimum setback line.
         (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause
to be made or continued at any pool, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise or
any noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others. In the operation of a pool, the use or
permitting the use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing of the person who is in the pool premises
shall be unlawful.
         (f)   Lights to illuminate any pool shall be so arranged and shaded as
to reflect light away from adjoining premises and streets.
      (5)   Amateur radio-sending and receiving antennae, provided the height
thereof, including masts, shall not exceed 75 feet measured from finished lot
grade; and provided further, that such apparatus does not cause any
interference with radio or television receivers in the vicinity;
      (6)   Management office in multi-family dwelling or apartment use, and
other facilities normally associated with tenants’ conveniences, such as
vending machines and washing machines, provided, there is no exterior display;
      (7)   Fall-out shelter;
      (8)   Residential occupancy by domestic employees on the premises;
      (9)   Foster family care where children unrelated to the residents by
blood or adoption are cared for according to state statutes; provided, that no
sign shall be displayed;
      (10)   Stables and animal pens, on residential lots of at least three
acres; provided, however, any structures, pens, or corrals housing animals
shall be 100 feet from an adjoining property line, except where animals are
kept in sound-proof air conditioned buildings, in which case the required
setback line is 50 feet. See §
153.014 for other stables and raising and breeding non-farm fowl or animals;
      (11)   Storage areas, as regulated in applicable section of this chapter;
      (12)   Private residential garages and carports for the storage of motor
vehicles, which are clearly accessory and not for commercial purposes;
      (13)   Storage or parking of recreational vehicles in the open subject to
the following conditions:
         (a)   In any district the wheels or any similar transporting devices
of any recreational vehicle shall not be removed except for repairs, nor shall
such vehicle be otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that
would prevent ready removal of said types of mobile structures;
         (b)   Recreational vehicles may be stored or parked by the owner
thereof behind or alongside the primary building in such a manner that no part
of any such vehicle shall project beyond the front or side setback lines of the
lot;
         (c)   Not more than two recreational vehicles will be permitted to be
parked or stored in the open on residential property at any one time; provided,
however, that one additional such vehicle will be permitted for visitation for
seven consecutive days and not to exceed 14 days in any one year, in accordance
with this section;
         (d)   At no time shall such parked or stored recreational vehicle be
occupied or used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes, except as
provided for visitations in division (C)(13)(c) above; and
         (e)   Notwithstanding the provisions of (C)(13)(d) above, recreational
vehicles may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading or unloading
purposes, for not longer than a period of 48 consecutive hours in any one-week
period.
      (14)   Storage of a continually unoccupied mobile home is only
permissible in a business or industrial district at a location legally
qualified to render storage for said mobile home;
      (15)   Satellite (earth) television antennas shall be in accordance with
the following standards.
         (a)   There shall be one satellite television antenna permitted per
residential lot.
         (b)   In all districts, a satellite television antenna having a
diameter greater than four feet shall be located on the ground upon and within
a poured concrete foundation to the rear of the principal building on a lot,
and within the building area, and shall not exceed 13 feet in height or the
height of the main structure, whichever is less.
         (c)   In all districts, a satellite television antenna having a
diameter of four feet or less may be located on the principal building or an
accessory building on a lot, and shall not exceed a height of more than four
feet above the roof on which it is mounted, subject to the particular height
requirements of the district. When an antenna having a diameter of four feet or
less is located on the ground, all requirements contained in division (C)(15)
(b) above shall apply.
         (d)   The satellite television antenna shall be screened from view by
a fence or natural plantings and can be located in a side yard to the rear of
the building setback lines if, in the opinion of the Executive Director, the
antenna can be adequately screened from view.
         (e)   No satellite television antenna shall be linked to a receiver
which is not located on the same lot or parcel of real estate.
      (16)   For home occupation use, see §
153.023 for additional requirements.
(Ord. passed - -1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.067  TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Intent. Temporary uses shall be permitted in applicable districts by
the grant of a temporary improvement location permit issued by the Board of
Zoning Appeals in accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The duration of the temporary period is stated hereinafter;
provided, however, renewal of such permit may be requested.
      (2)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all the regulations of the
applicable district.
      (3)   Mobile homes shall be removed from the lot at the time of
expiration of time period.
   (C)   Uses which may be permitted by the Board.
      (1)   Temporary office, model home, or model apartment, and incidental
signs thereof, both incidental and necessary for the sale, rental, or lease of
real property in the district; maximum 18 months;
      (2)   Noncommercial concrete batching plant, both incidental and
necessary to construction in the district; maximum 18 months;
      (3)   Temporary building or yard for construction materials and
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the district;
maximum 18 months;
      (4)   Parking lot designated for a special event in a district; maximum
30 days;
      (5)   Announcement signs necessary to explain the character of a building
enterprise; maximum 18 months;
      (6)   Bazaars, carnivals, and similar temporary uses; maximum ten days;
      (7)   Sale of Christmas trees, outdoor tent theatre, sale of seasonal
fruits and vegetables from roadside stands, or tent sales; maximum 60 days;
      (8)   Parking of recreational vehicles for visitation; maximum seven
days;
      (9)   Temporary mobile home living quarters as accessory use on same lot
as principal building used for residential purposes when situation necessitates
special health care for blood relative; maximum two years;
      (10)   Mobile home as a temporary office during the period of
construction and development; maximum 18 months;
      (11)   Mobile home as a temporary living place or dwelling for security
purposes; maximum 18 months;
      (12)   Portable signs, as defined in §
153.096, in the LB and GB Districts in accordance with the basic requirements
of §
153.098(D), and the provisions and standards of this section; maximum of two
months consecutively during a four-month period during a one-year period;
      (13)   Portable signs, as defined in §
153.096, in residence districts in accordance with the basic requirements of
division (C)(10) above, other than anchoring requirements, and also in
accordance with the provisions and standards of this section; maximum ten days;
      (14)   Temporary signs, which shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign
area, in connection with a special event in a district, except temporary
political signs or community activities signs which do not require a permit;
maximum ten days;
      (15)   (a)   Display of pennants and other similar attracting devices in
connection with a special promotional program for an open-air business. See §
153.022(A)(6) and §
153.098(D).
         (b)   The Town of Vevay, the county, and the Indiana Wine Festival are
exempted from these provisions:
            1.   During a seven-consecutive day period related to a special
event; or
            2.   For use twice during any 12-month period. In conjunction with
a promotional sales or service program, each period not to exceed three weeks
in duration, and to be separated from any other such period by not less than
four weeks.
      (16)   Other similar uses deemed temporary by the Board and attached with
such time period, conditions and safeguards as the Board may deem necessary.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be provided
which shall not interfere with traffic movement on adjacent streets.
      (2)   No public address systems or other noise-producing devices shall be
permitted in a residential district.
      (3)   Any flood lights or other lighting shall be directed upon the
premises and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
      (4)   No banners, pennants, or unnecessary signs shall be permitted in a
residential district.
      (5)   The lot shall be put in clean condition devoid of temporary use
remnants upon termination of the temporary period.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.080  ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, PERMITS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. The Executive Director is hereby designated and
authorized to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Improvement location permits. Within the jurisdiction of the County
Area Plan Commission, no structure, improvement, or use of land may be altered,
changed, placed, erected, or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless the
structure, improvement, or use, and its location conform with the comprehensive
plan the county, the Town of Vevay and the Town of Patriot, and this chapter
and an improvement location permit for such structure, improvement, or use has
been obtained from the Executive Director by the owner(s) of the property or
his or her agent.
      (1)   Compliance with comprehensive plan. The Executive Director shall
issue an improvement location permit, upon written application, when the
proposed structure, improvement, or use and its location conform in all
respects to this chapter, the Area Subdivision Code, and the thoroughfare plan
of the county, and the Town of Vevay and the Town of Patriot.
      (2)   Building permits. The Executive Director may issue an improvement
location permit, which may include a building permit authorization by the
County Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Application for improvement location permit.
      (1)   Any person, who shall make application for an improvement location
permit, shall, at the time of making such application, furnish a site plan or
development plan of the real estate upon which said application for an
improvement location permit is made at least five days prior to the issuance of
said improvement location permit, which five-day period may be waived.
      (2)   Said site plan shall be properly dimensioned and drawn to scale
showing the following items:
         (a)   Address of property and a legal or site description of the real
estate involved including acreage;
         (b)   Location and size of all buildings and structures, existing and
proposed;
         (c)   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from said
real estate;
         (d)   All adjacent and adjoining roads, alleys, or highways, and their
names;
         (e)   Lot number and area in square feet;
         (f)   Actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
         (g)   Front, side, and rear yard lines and their distance from the
street or lot lines;
         (h)   Number of families or housekeeping units the building is
designed to accommodate and such other information in regard to the lot and
neighboring lots and their use as may be necessary to determine and provide for
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; and
         (i)   Any other items required by this chapter. Applications including
site plans or development plans so furnished shall be filed and shall become a
permanent record of the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Basic duties of Executive Director. The basic duties of the Executive
Director shall include the following:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the Board of Zoning Appeals, improvement
location permits and certificates of occupancy and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter, and report the findings
and violations to the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals for the
purpose of ordering compliance thereof;
      (3)   Provide interpretation of the planning and zoning codes when
necessary and such technical and clerical assistance as the Commission and
Board may require;
      (4)   Provide and maintain a public information service relative to all
matters arising out of the planning and zoning codes;
      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of the planning and zoning
codes, including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, improvement
location permits, building permits, certificates of occupancy, variances,
special exceptions, and appeals, and applications therefor, and records of
hearings thereon;
      (6)   Review all applications for improvement location permits and
subdivisions to ascertain as to whether the proposed use lies in a flood hazard
area as defined in this chapter. If the proposed use is found to lie in such an
area, the Executive Director will enforce the requirements set forth in §
153.053 in the event that any structures involved are not directly covered by
the Building Code regulations; and
      (7)   The Executive Director, during his or her review of improvement
location permits and building permits, shall assure that all national flood
insurance program regulations pertaining to state and federal permits,
subdivision review, mobile home tie-down standards, utility construction,
recordkeeping (including lowest floor elevations), and watercourse alteration
and maintenance have been met.
   (E)   Responsibility of the Executive Director.
      (1)   The official assigned to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter is designated the Executive Director. He or she shall be appointed
in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-311(b). The authority to
perform inspections, review applications, and issue permits may be delegated to
such other officials by the Executive Director. In the performance of these
functions, the Executive Director and such other officials shall be responsible
to the County Area Plan Commission and the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   If the Executive Director shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of
interpretation of provisions of this chapter be first presented to the
Executive Director. Recourse from the decision of the Executive Director (on
matters pertaining to zoning) shall be only to the area Board of Zoning
Appeals, and recourse from the decision of the Board shall be to the courts as
provided by law.
   (F)   Relocation of proposed building, structure, or exit. The Executive
Director may require the relocation of any proposed building or structure or
exit or entrance shown on the site plan or the location of new exits or
entrances not shown on the site plan before issuing an improvement location
permit when such action is necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of
this chapter.
   (G)   Certificate of compliance for industrial uses. An application for an
improvement location permit for any use subject to the provisions of §
153.048 and §
153.049, shall be accompanied by a certificate of compliance subscribed by a
registered professional engineer of the state, certifying that the use intended
will satisfy the performance standards of the open industrial use or enclosed
industrial use, as the case may be, and in the district in which it is to be
located. The Executive Director may take ten days in which to study the
application, during which time he or she may consult with appropriate technical
consultants. If, after the ten-day period, the Executive Director has not
required any additional information or stated any objection in writing, the
Executive Director shall issue the improvement location permit.
   (H)   Site plans must be filed for record. Site plans so furnished shall be
filed and shall become a permanent public record.
   (I)   Special exception. The Executive Director shall issue an improvement
location permit for a special exception use only following receipt of notice
from the Board that the application therefor has been approved by the Board.
   (J)   Certificate of occupancy. No land shall be occupied or used and no
building hereafter erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered shall be
occupied or used, in whole or in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued stating that the building and
use comply with all of the provisions of this chapter applicable to the
building, or premises of the use in the district in which it is to be located.
   (K)   Completion of improvements. On completion of the improvement covered
by the improvement location permit, the Executive Director shall cause an
inspection of the premises, and, if this inspection shall reveal that the
improvement has been completed in substantial conformity with the site plan or
development plan, and certificate of compliance when required, submitted in the
application pursuant to division (C) above, a certificate of occupancy shall
then be issued, providing the Building Code requirements have been met.
   (L)   Temporary certificate. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Executive Director after application has been made for completed
portions of a development plan which has been approved as a special exception;
provided, that a certificate of occupancy is required upon completion of the
total development plan.
   (M)   Change of use. No change shall be made in the use of land or in the
use of any building or part thereof, now or hereafter erected, reconstructed,
or structurally altered, without a certificate of occupancy having been issued,
and no such certificate shall be issued to make such change unless it is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (N)   Coincidental application. A certificate of occupancy shall be applied
for coincidentally with the application for an improvement location permit and
shall be issued within ten days after the lawful change of use, lawful
erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of such building or other
improvement of the land shall have been completed, provided the Executive
Director has been notified of such completion by the applicant.
   (O)   Certificates of occupancy filed for record. A record of all
certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the Executive
Director and copies shall be furnished upon request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land affected.
   (P)   Excavations. No improvement location permit shall be issued for
excavation or for the erection, reconstruction, or structural alteration of any
building, before application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
   (Q)   Health requirements. An application for an improvement location permit
for any use shall not be approved until it has been ascertained by the
Executive Director that the proposed use meets the minimum standards for a
sewage disposal system and water supply system as required by the County Health
Officer. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a commercial or
industrial structure or for any other applicable building until the plans for
such structure shall have been approved by the Department of Fire Prevention
and Building Safety of the state.
   (R)   Time limit. The work or use authorized by an improvement location
permit, certificate of occupancy, or permit for a variance, contingent use, or
other permit, except for a special exception, must be commenced within six
months of the date of issuance of such certificate or permit; otherwise, the
same shall lapse and become null and void. All work so authorized shall be
completed within 12 months from the issuance of the certificate or permit
therefor, except for a special exception and; provided, that for good cause
shown, the Executive Director can extend the completion of time.
   (S)   Proper compliance.
      (1)   (a)   The Executive Director shall review all development (and
subdivision) proposals to assure compliance with the floodplain district
requirements of this chapter. All development applications for uses located in
the floodplain district which are not permitted by right (see §
153.053) will require the review and approval by Natural Resources prior to the
issuance of an improvement location permit.
         (b)   The Executive Director shall forward all these applications,
along with plans and specifications to Natural Resources for review and
comment.
      (2)   The Executive Director, during his or her review of improvement
location permits, shall assure that all National Flood Insurance Program
regulations pertaining to state and federal permits, (subdivision review),
mobile home tie-down standards, utility construction, recordkeeping (including
lowest floor elevations), and watercourse alteration and maintenance have been
met.
   (T)   Soil and drainage conditions met.
      (1)   An application for an improvement location permit for any use shall
not be approved until it has been ascertained by the Executive Director that
the proposed use meets the applicable criteria of the County Soil and Water
Conservation District for the lot or tract of land concerning types of soils
involved and the conditions which are requisite to assure proper drainage.
      (2)   Also, the Executive Director must be satisfied that any State
Drainage Code requirements have been met before approving applications for
improvement location permits.
   (U)   Temporary improvement location permit. A temporary improvement
location permit may be issued by the Executive Director after application has
been made for a temporary use authorized by this chapter. See §
153.067 and § 153.41.
   (V)   Issuance of permits. Any permits authorized by the county, including,
but not limited to, improvement location permits, permitting the erection,
alteration, or relocation of structures and other improvements within the
jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission, shall be issued only if, in
addition to satisfying the requirements of this code of ordinances and the Town
of Vevay and the Town of Patriot, the proposed street right-of-way as set forth
in the thoroughfare plan, will be protected from encroachment. In this
instance, the proposed street right-of-way lines will be considered as the
front lines of lots and tracts bordering such streets, subject to building
setback lines as set forth in §
153.015.
   (W)   Certain requirements regarding real estate transfers. All offers and
contracts for the sale of real estate shall be accompanied by a written
statement, signed by both the buyer and the seller, which informs the buyer
that the real estate is subject to zoning restrictions. The statement shall
also inform the buyer that copies of the zoning regulations can be viewed and
obtained from the County Executive Director in the Area Plan Commission office
in the Courthouse.
   (X)   Erroneously issued permits restrictive covenants. The issuance of an
improvement location permit and/or a certificate of occupancy in no way
validates such a permit or certificate in the event that the same is
erroneously issued or does not comply with applicable laws and this code of
ordinances, and the Town of Vevay and the Town of Patriot. Furthermore, the
issuance of an improvement location permit and/or a certificate of occupancy in
no way permits the violation of any restrictive covenants relative to the real
estate. See § 153.45(B).
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.081  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established with membership and
appointment provided in accordance with I.C. 36-7 4-901 and I.C. 36-7-4-902
through 36-7-4-907, and all acts now or hereafter amendatory thereto.
   (A)   Organization. At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect
a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from among its members, and it may appoint
and fix the compensation of a Secretary and such employees as are necessary for
the discharge of its duties, all in conformity to and compliance with salaries
and compensation theretofore fixed by the legislative authority.
   (B)   Rules. The Board shall adopted rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Meetings open to public. All meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, prepare findings, and record the
vote of each member voting upon each question. All minutes and records shall be
filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record, and a copy of
which shall be filed with the Executive Director following each Board meeting.
   (D)   Appeals jurisdiction. The Board shall hear and determine appeals from
and review:
      (1)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official, including the Executive Director, or staff member
under this chapter;
      (2)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body except a Plan Commission in relation to the
enforcement of this chapter; or
      (3)   Any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative board or other body except a Plan Commission in relation to the
enforcement of an ordinance adopted under this chapter requiring the
procurement of an improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Exceptions and uses. The Board shall approve or deny all special
exceptions and variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance, but only in
the classes of cases or in the particular situations specified in this chapter.
The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval. The Board
may permit or require the owner of a parcel of property to make a written
commitment concerning the use or development of special exceptions and
variances.
   (F)   Variances from development standards of this chapter.
      (1)   The Board shall approve or deny variances from the development
standards (such as height, bulk, or area) of this chapter.
      (2)   A variance may be approved under this section only upon a
determination in writing that:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result
in practical difficulties in the use of the property;
         (d)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property or to the intended use that do not apply
generally to the other property or class of use in the same vicinity and
district;
         (e)   Such variances are necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the same
vicinity and district but which is denied to the property in question; and
         (f)   The granting of such variance will not alter the land use
characteristics of the vicinity and district, or increase the congestion in the
streets.
   (G)   Variances from use district or classification not granted. Neither the
County Area Board of Zoning Appeals, nor any other Board of Zoning Appeals
continued in existence under the Area Planning Law may grant a variance from a
use district or classification under the Area Planning Law.
   (H)   Variances in FP District. Applications for variances to the provisions
of this chapter concerning an improvement location permit or building permit
for a use located in the FP District shall be forwarded to Natural Resources
for review and comment. All terms and conditions imposed by Natural Resources
shall be incorporated into the issuance of any such permits. All variances
shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such that the maximum practical
flood protection will be given to the proposed construction; and issue a
written notice to the recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed
construction will be subject to increased risks to life and property and could
require payment of excessive flood insurance premiums.
   (I)   Appeals to Board; grounds; transmission of record; disposition.
      (1)   An appeal filed with the Board must specify the grounds of the
appeal and must be filed within such time and in such form as may be prescribed
by the Board by rule.
      (2)   The Executive Director, or other person from whom the appeal is
taken shall, on the request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, transmit to it all
documents, plans, and papers constituting the record of the action from which
an appeal was taken.
      (3)   Certified copies of the documents, plans, and papers constituting
the record may be transmitted for purposes of division (I)(2) above.
      (4)   Upon appeal, the Board may reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from. For this purpose, the
Board has all the powers of the official, officer, board, or body from which
the appeal is taken.
      (5)   The Board shall make a decision on any matter that it is required
to hear under this chapter:
         (a)   At the meeting at which that matter is first presented; or
         (b)   At the conclusion of the hearing on that matter, if it is
continued.
      (6)   Within five days after making any decision under this chapter, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall file in the office of the Board a copy of its
decision.
   (J)   Writ of certiorari. Every decision of the Board shall be subject to
review by certiorari.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.082  COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 5.
   (A)   Before an improvement location permit or a certificate of occupancy
shall be issued, the Executive Director shall be satisfied that the “operator”
(see division (B)(4) below) of any proposed use on a site where construction
activity disturbs five acres or more shall comply with the administrative
provisions of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (“Rule 5”). Rule 5 concerns stormwater runoff
associated with construction activity.
   (B)   The purpose of this Rule 5 is to reduce pollutants, principally
sediment as a result of soil erosion, in stormwater discharges into surface
waters of the state from sites where construction activity disturbs five acres
or more of the site; however, in contemplation of recent federal court
decisions, persons with sites greater than one acre but less than five acres
are invited to comply with this Rule as well.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-1).
      (1)   Applicability of Rule 5. The requirements under this Rule apply to
all persons who:
         (a)   Do not obtain an individual NPDES permit under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-
6;
         (b)   Meet the general permit rule applicability requirements under
327 I.A.C. 15-2-3; and
         (c)   Are involved in construction activity, which includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land-disturbing activities, except operations
that result in the disturbance of less than five acres of total land area and
which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-2)
      (2)   General permit rule boundary. Facilities existing within the
boundaries of the state affected by this Rule are regulated under this Rule.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-2)
      (3)   Compliance with Rule 5. In order to comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5
(Rule 5), an operator must:
         (a)   Pay the notice of intent (NOI) letter fee of the current amount
required made payable to the State Department of Environmental Management. See
division (B)(12) below for content requirement of NOI letter;
         (b)   Prepare a soil erosion control plan that contains the required
elements in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-7. See division (B)(10) below;
         (c)   Send the plan to the County Soil and Water Conservation District
(SWCD) office in the county where the construction activity will take place.
The SWCD will review the plan and make recommendations when necessary;
         (d)   Be sure that the personnel responsible for installing and
operating the plan know what they are doing. This may require some training for
some;
         (e)   Prepare and submit a complete notice of intent letter to the
office of Water Management, Permits Section. All of the requirements in 327
I.A.C. 15-3-2 and 327 I.A.C. 15-5-5 (See division (B)(1) above and (B)(4)
below) must be included in the NOI letter to be considered complete.
Do not send a copy of the soil erosion control plan to IDEM; and
         (f)   Construction can begin immediately after fulfilling the
requirements in 327 I.A.C. 15.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         AGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Use of land for the production of animal or
plant life, including forestry, pasturing, or yarding of livestock, and
planting, growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock
consumption.
         EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock
fragments by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
         EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation and/or off-site damages.
         EROSION CONTROL PLAN. A written description and site plan of pertinent
information concerning erosion control measures.
         LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading. In the context of this Rule, agricultural land-disturbing activities,
coal mining activities permitted by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
under I.C. 13-4.1, and active landfills permitted by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management where the permit requires soil erosion control, are
excluded.
         NONAGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Commercial use of land for the manufacturing
and wholesale or retail sale of goods or services; residential or institutional
use of land intended primarily to shelter people; highway use of land including
lanes, alleys, and streets; and other land uses not included in agricultural
land use.
         OPERATOR. The person required to submit the NOI letter under this
section, and required to comply with the terms of this Rule.
         SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-4)
      (5)   Additional notice of intent letter requirements. In addition to the
NOI letter requirements under 327 I.A.C. 15-3, the following information must
be submitted by the operator with a NOI letter under this Rule:
         (a)   A brief description of the construction project, including, but
not limited to, a statement of the total acreage of the site;
         (b)   Estimated timetable for land-disturbing activities and
installation of erosion control measures;
         (c)   Statement of the number of acres to be involved in land-
disturbing activities; and
         (d)   A written certification by the operator that:
            1.   The erosion control measures included in the erosion control
plan comply with the requirements under § 7 and 9 of this Rule and that the
plan complies with applicable state, county, or local erosion control
requirements;
            2.   The erosion control measures will be implemented in accordance
with the plan;
            3.   Verification that an appropriate state, county, or local
erosion control authority and the soil and water conservation district office
has been sent a copy of the plan for review; and
            4.   Verification that implementation of the erosion control plan
will be conducted by personnel trained in erosion control practices.
         (e)   Proof of publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the affected area that notified the public that a construction activity under
this Rule is to commence.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-5)
      (6)   Deadline for submittal of a NOI letter; additional information. All
information required under 327 I.A.C. 15-3 and division (B)(5) above shall be
submitted to the Commissioner prior to the initiation of land-disturbing
activities.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 5-5-6)
      (7)   General conditions for construction activity erosion control
measures.
         (a)   The operator shall develop an erosion control plan in accordance
with the requirements under this section.
         (b)   The following requirements shall be met on all sites during the
period when active land-disturbing activities occur.
            1.   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the site
shall be detained by erosion control practices appropriate to minimize
sedimentation in the receiving stream. No storm shall be discharged from the
site in a manner causing erosion in the receiving channel at the point of
discharge.
            2.   Appropriate measures shall be taken by the operator to
minimize or eliminate wastes or unused building materials, including, but not
limited to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, and other substances
from being carried from a site by runoff. Proper disposal or management of all
wastes and unused building materials, appropriate to the nature of the waste or
material, is required.
            3.   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private
roadways shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a temporary
gravel construction entrance in addition to a well-planned layout of roads,
access drives, and parking areas of sufficient width and length, or other
appropriate measures.
            4.   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of
accumulated sediment. Bulk clearing of accumulated sediment shall not include
flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall be returned to the point
of likely origin or other suitable location.
            5.   All on-site storm drain inlets shall be protected against
sedimentation with straw bales, filter fabric, or equivalent barriers meeting
accepted design criteria, standards, and specification for that purpose.
            6.   The following items apply during the time the construction
activity is taking place.
               a.   Stormwater drainage from adjacent areas that naturally pass
through the site shall be controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas.
Alternatively, the existing channel must be protected and/or improved to
prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
               b.   Runoff from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or
more of the following measures.
                  i.   Except as prevented by inclement weather conditions or
other circumstances beyond the control of the operator, appropriate vegetative
practices will be initiated within seven days of the last land-disturbing
activity at the site regulated by this Rule. Appropriate vegetative practices
include, but are not limited to, seeding, sodding, mulching, covering, or by
other equivalent erosion control measures.
                  ii.   The erosion control plan shall be implemented on
disturbed areas within the construction site. The plan shall include erosion
control measures as appropriate, such as, but not limited to, the following:
sediment detention basins; and sediment control practices, such as filter
strips, diversions, straw bales, filter fences, inlet protection measures,
slope minimization, phased construction, maximizing tree coverage, temporary
and permanent seeding of vegetation, mulching, and sodding.
               c.   All measures involving erosion control practices shall be
designed and installed under the guidance of a qualified professional
experienced in erosion control and following the specifications and criteria
under this division (B)(7)(b)7. All other non-engineered erosion control
measures involving vegetation should be installed according to accepted
specifications and criteria under this division (B)(7)(b)7.
               d.   During the period of construction activity at a site, all
erosion control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this Rule shall
be maintained by the operator.
               e.   All erosion control measures required to comply with this
Rule shall meet the design criteria, standards, and specifications for erosion
control measures established by the department in guidance documents similar
to, or as effective as, those outlined in the State Handbook for Erosion
Control in Developing Areas from the Division of Soil Conservation, State
Department of Natural Resources and the Field Office Technical Guide from the
Soil Conservation Service. The erosion control plan shall include, but is not
limited to, the following:
                  i.   A map of the site in adequate detail to show the site
and adjacent areas, including the following:
                     A.   Site boundaries and adjacent lands which accurately
portray the site location;
                     B.   Lakes, streams, channels, ditches, wetlands, and
other watercourses on and adjacent to the site;
                     C.   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and
floodways;
                     D.   Location of the predominant sod types, which may be
determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, SCS County Soil Survey, or an
equivalent publication, or as determined by a certified professional soil
scientist;
                     E.   Location and delineation of vegetative cover such as
grass, weeds, brush, and trees;
                     F.   Location and approximate dimensions of stormwater
drainage systems and natural drainage patterns on, and immediately adjacent to,
the site;
                     G.   Locations and approximate dimensions of utilities,
structures, roads, highways, and paving;
                     H.   Site topography, both existing and planned, at a
contour interval appropriate to indicate drainage patterns; and
                     I.   Potential areas where point source discharges of
stormwater may enter ground water, if any.
                  ii.   A plan of final site conditions on the same scale as
the existing site map showing the site changes.
                  iii.   A site construction plan shall include, but is not
limited to, the following:
                     A.   Locations and approximate dimensions of all proposed
land-disturbing activities;
                     B.   Potential locations of soil stockpiles;
                     C.   Locations and approximate dimensions of all erosion
control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this Rule;
                     D.   Schedule of the anticipated initiation and completion
dales of each land-disturbing activity, including the installation of erosion
control measures needed to meet the requirements of this Rule;
                     E.   Provisions, including a schedule, for maintenance of
the erosion control measures during construction; and
                     F.   Where feasible, preserve vegetation that exists on
the site prior to the  initiation of land-disturbing activities.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-7)
      (8)   Project termination.
         (a)   The operator shall plan an orderly and timely termination of the
land-disturbing activities which shall include the following:
            1.   Allowing the installation of utility lines on the site,
whenever practicable, prior to final land grading, seeding, and mulching of the
site; and
            2.   Implementing erosion control measures which are to remain on
the site.
         (b)   The Commissioner may, subsequent to termination of a project,
inspect the site to evaluate the adequacy of the remaining erosion control
measures.
         (c)   Maintenance of the remaining erosion control measures shall be
the responsibility of the occupier of the properly after the operator has
terminated land-disturbing activities.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-8)
      (9)   Standard  conditions. The standard conditions for NPDES general
permit rules under 327 I.A.C. 15-4 shall apply to this Rule.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-9)
      (10)   Inspection and enforcement.
         (a)   The Commissioner and/or designated representative may inspect
any site involved in land-disturbing activities regulated by this Rule at
reasonable times.
         (b)   The erosion control plan must be readily accessible for review
at the time of the inspection.
            1.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Rule 5
shall be subject to enforcement and penalty under, I.C. 13-7-10-5, I.C. 13-7-
11; I.C. 13-7-12, 327 I.A.C. 15-1-4, or any combination thereof.
            2.   If maintenance of remaining erosion control measures are not
properly maintained by the person operating the properly, the Commissioner may
pursue enforcement against that person for correction of deficiencies under 327
I.A.C. 15-1-4.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5 10)
      (11)   Notification of completion. The operator shall notify the
Commissioner, in writing, upon completion of the construction activity.
(Water Pollution Control Board; 327 I.A.C. 15-5-11)
      (12)   Content requirements of a notice of intent letter. The NOI letter
shall include the following:
         (a)   Name, mailing address, and location of the facility for which
notification is submitted;
         (b)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Codes, as defined in
327 I.A.C. 5, up to four digits, that best represent the principal products or
activities provided by the facility;
         (c)   The person’s name, address, telephone number, ownership status,
and status as to federal, state, private, public, or other entity;
         (d)   Latitude and longitude of the approximate center of the facility
to the nearest 15 seconds, or the nearest quarter section (if the section,
township, and range is provided) in which the facility is located;
         (e)   Name and receiving water, or, if the discharge is to a municipal
separate storm sewer, name of the municipal operator of the storm sewer and the
ultimate receiving water;
         (f)   Description of how the facility complies with the applicability
requirements of the general permit rule;
         (g)   Any additional NOI letter information required by the applicable
general permit rule; and
         (h)   The NOI letter must be signed by a person meeting the signatory
requirements in 327 I.A.C. 15-4-3(g).
(327 I.A.C. 15-3-2)
      (13)   Additional information to be submitted with NOI letter. In
addition to the NOI letter requirements under 327 I.A.C. 15-3, the following
information must be submitted by the operator with a NOI letter under this
Rule:
         (a)   Brief description of the construction project, including, but
not limited to, a statement of the total acreage of the site;
         (b)   Estimated timetable for land-disturbing activities and
installation of erosion control measures;
         (c)   Statement of the number of acres to be involved in land-
disturbing activities;
         (d)   Written certification by the operator that:
            1.   The erosion control measures included in the erosion control
plan comply with the requirements under divisions (B)(7) and (B)(9) above and
that the plan complies with applicable state, county, or local erosion control
requirements;
            2.   The erosion control measures will be implemented in accordance
with the plan;
            3.   Verification that an appropriate state, county, or local
erosion control authority and the soil and water conservation district office
has been sent a copy of the plan for review; and
            4.   Verification that implementation of the erosion control plan
will be conducted by personnel trained in erosion control practices.
         (e)   Proof of publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the affected area that notified the public that a construction activity under
this Rule is to commence.
(327 I.A.C. 15 5-5)
(Ord. passed - -1996)
SIGNS
§ 153.095  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide clarification regarding
regulations pertaining to signs and to assist those wishing to place signs in
the towns and county by comprehensively setting forth provisions governing the
installation and construction of signs and advertising devices in one location
(insofar as is possible) in this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, it is the purpose and intent of this chapter to:
      (1)   Recognize the functions and importance of signs for the business
sector and the towns and county as a whole;
      (2)   Preserve and enhance the character and visual appearance of the
city;
      (3)   Recognize the integral part played by signs in the overall
appearance of the towns and county;
      (4)   Provide a reasonable set of controls that will permit and encourage
creative and effective signs that adequately identify a business; and
      (5)   Provide standards, guidance, and direction for sign users and sign
designers as to what constitutes appropriate signage in the towns and county.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.096  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SIGN or BILLBOARD. An off-site sign which directs attention to
an object as described in the definition of “sign” below; however, such
advertising sign shall not be associated with the primary use, business
activity, or service conducted on the premises.
   APARTMENT/MULTI-FAMILY IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Signs identifying a multi-
family dwelling complex by name and/or address.
   AWNING. A roof-like mechanism, which may or may not be retractable in
operation, which projects from the wall of a building.
   BANNERS; COMMERCIAL. Flags and pennants generally made of a flexible
material, displayed for business promotion purposes.
   BARBER POLES. Rotating or stationary cylindrical poles of the traditional
red, white, and blue spiral striped design, identifying the premises as a
barber shop.
   CHANGE OF COPY. Changing of the face or letters on a sign. CHANGE OF A COPY
shall not constitute a change of use. Permits shall automatically be granted
where not in conflict with this chapter.
   CHANGEABLE COPYSIGNS. Signs designed to be used with removable graphics
which will allow changing of copy.
   COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES SIGNS. Signs associated with a religious, charitable,
cultural, civic, or educational organization.
   CONSTRUCTION ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNS. Signs placed on property upon which
construction is to take place, or is taking place, which contain information
regarding the individuals and firms directly connected with the construction
project, including the name of the contractor, the subcontractors, the real
estate licensee, and the possible future tenants.
   DIRECTORY SIGNS. A sign or set of similarly designed individual signs,
placed, or displayed in sequence, to list all or part of the business within a
building or business center.
   FREE-STANDING BUSINESS CENTER IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Free-standing signs
which identify a business center, and not the individual businesses located
therein.
   FREE-STANDING INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Free-standing signs
which identify a building, business, professional center, or industry not
located within a business center.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any sign attached to a self-supporting sign structure
standing on the ground, which is essentially unattached to any other-structure.
Signs mounted on architecturally integrated extensions of buildings are not
considered FREE-STANDING.
   GASOLINE PRICE SIGNS. On-premises signs identifying the brand and/or type
and price of gasoline sold.
   GOVERNMENTAL or OTHER SIGNS REQUIRED BY LAW. Signs placed in any area of the
city by a governmental entity or private individual or business as required by
federal, state, or local law.
   HEIGHT. Generally refers to free-standing signs. The distance measured from
the average surface grade surrounding the base of a sign or the average surface
grade of the road bed nearest the base of the sign, whichever is higher, to the
top of the highest element of the sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGNS. Signs or individual letters in which an artificial source
of light is used in order to make the message readable. This definition shall
include internally and externally lighted signs, and reflectorized, glowing, or
radiating signs.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A nameplate, temporary sign, or sign relating to the lot or
use thereof and designating accessory uses, direction, identification,
information, or real estate for sale, rent, or lease.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGNS. Signs identifying the premises of, or announcing the
activities conducted by a church, school, hospital, rest home, or similar
institutional facility.
   MANAGER OR OFFICE OF MANAGER SIGNS. Signs which identify the location of the
manager or the office of the manager of property.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGNS. Signs identifying a business activity, property, or
product at some location other than where the sign is displayed.
   ON-BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Permanent signs mounted on the building
which identify the building and/or which identify the business or profession or
industry, or combination thereof conducted on the premises.
   PARKING LOT SIGNS. Signs placed or displayed in parking lots to supply
information to people using such lots, including information with respect to
liability as well as entry, exit, and directional information, handicapped
parking requirements, and other information to facilitate the safe movement of
vehicles served by the parking area.
   PLACED or DISPLACED. Erected, constructed, posted, painted, printed, tacked,
glued, carved, or otherwise fastened, affixed, or made visible in any manner
whatsoever.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building,
structure, or the ground, inclusive of signs on movable objects, except signs
on vehicles which are moving or parked only temporarily, incidental to their
principal use for transportation; a temporary sign designed to be moved from
place to place. A sign not permitted by the requirements of this subchapter,
but may be permitted by the Board in accordance with the requirements of §
153.067.
   PROJECTING SIGNS. A sign characterized by its attachment at an angle with
the face of the building as opposed to being mounted flat on the surface of a
building.
   REAL ESTATE SIGNS FOR PROPERTY OF LESS THAN ONE ACRE. Signs offering
developed or undeveloped real property of less than one acre of land for sale,
lease, or rent.
   REAL ESTATE SIGNS FOR PROPERTY OF ONE ACRE OR LARGER. Signs offering
developed or undeveloped property of one acre or more for sale, lease, or rent.
   ROOFLINE. A horizontal plane projected parallel to the primary plane of a
building floor and touching the primary roof plane on the building.
   SIGN. A physical embodiment of a visual communication which is intended to
be viewed from outdoor public areas. In addition, it shall include all parts,
portions, units, and materials composing the same, together with the
illumination, frame, background, structure, and support anchorage thereof. This
definition shall not apply to the official flag, emblem, or insignia of the
government or religious group or agency.
   SIGN AREA. The surface area of a sign face is the entire area measured
within a single continuous perimeter enclosing all elements of the sign which
form an integral part of the sign and which are organized, related, and
composed to form a single unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner
without organized relationship of elements, or where there is reasonable doubt
about the relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a
single sign.
   SIGN FACING. The surface of the sign on, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN PROGRAM. A coordinated design plan of one or more signs for an
individual business establishment or a business center.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing, and framework for the sign.
In the case of a SIGN STRUCTURE consisting of two or more sides where the angle
formed between any of the sides (or the projection thereof) exceeds 15 degrees,
each side shall be considered a separate SIGN STRUCTURE.
   SUBDIVISION AND SUBDIVISION MODEL HOME SIGNS. Signs identifying subdivision
developments or model homes in a subdivision or land development project.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGNS. Signs displaying the time or the temperature, or
both.
   UNDER CANOPY SIGNS. Signs suspended no lower than eight feet above the
public right-of-way or above, or under a canopy or awning of a building, which
identifies a building, profession, or industry conducted on the premises.
   WINDOW SIGNS. Temporary window signs constructed of paper, cloth, or similar
expendable material, provided the total area of such signs is not to exceed 50%
of the window area.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.097  GENERAL LIMITATIONS.
   The following general limitations shall apply.
   (A)   Provisions of this subchapter regulating the location, placement,
gross surface area, projection, height limitation, construction, and number of
signs shall be subject to a further restriction by the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Projects or buildings containing more than one store shall have an
overall planned sign program.
   (C)   As a general rule, there shall be no more than three colors used on a
sign and all signs advertising one business or use shall utilize the same
colors. The background color, black and white are considered colors.
   (D)   Low profile, ground mounted signs less than eight feet high are
encouraged.
   (E)   The name of the business shall be the dominant message on the sign.
   (F)   Registered or copyrighted logos or trademarks shall be allowed with a
maximum of four colors.
   (G)   The following limitations shall apply in all business and industrial
zones: not more than three signs as defined herein; provided, that the total
sign area for all allowable signs, for each site or occupancy, shall not exceed
two square feet of sign area for each lineal foot of street or occupancy
frontage. Further, in no case shall the allowable sign area for each site or
occupancy exceed 300 square feet. See divisions (H) and (I) below, for
limitations on advertising signs or billboards and portable signs.
   (H)   The various limitations on advertising signs or billboards are set
forth in § 154.098(D)(1).
   (I)   The various limitations on portable signs are set forth in § 154.098
(D).
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.098  SIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Signs allowed without permit in all districts or zones. The following
signs may be placed in all districts or zones of the city without a permit,
subject to the restrictions and limitations contained in this subchapter and as
contained in §
153.097.
      (1)   Community activity signs.
         (a)   Community activity signs are allowed in business and industrial
districts or zones. Such signs are allowed in residential zones only if located
on the site of the activity and a permit is issued. Additionally, off-premises
signs of a temporary nature that are displayed out of doors require that a
permit be issued by the city, except where conforming existing signs of another
type allow a community activity signs to temporarily replace their sign
message.
         (b)   Community activity signs are generally associated with
religious, charitable, cultural, civic, or educational organizations:
            1.   Size. Shall not exceed 12 square feet of the sign area;
            2.   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property line in
residential zones, and not less than one foot inside the property line in
business and industrial zones; and
            3.   Other restrictions. Shall be temporary signs permitted for a
period of 14 days prior to the date of the activity and five days following the
activity. Shall be non-illuminated signs and shall identify the organization
and shall be at a level consistent with adequate identification and readability
without causing excessive complaints from neighboring property owners.
      (2)   Governmental or other signs required by law.
         (a)   Size. As required by law;
         (b)   Height. As required by law and not to exceed the height of free-
standing sign allowance;
         (c)   Location. As required by law; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Shall be non-illuminated unless required by
law.
      (3)   Political signs. Shall be permitted on each lot for a period of 60
days prior to a primary or general election (including special elections), and
ten days following a general or special election. Political signs shall not
exceed 16 square feet in aggregate area. Political signs are prohibited on
public property or public right-of-way;
      (4)   Real estate signs for property of less than one acre. Signs
offering developed or undeveloped property of less than one acre for sale,
lease, or rent.
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed 12 square feet in sign area. In the event
that the sign refers to a single-family home, then the size of the sign shall
not exceed six square feet in area;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed six feet in height if free-standing;
         (c)   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property lines in
residential zones, and not less than one foot inside the property lines in
business and industrial zones (if existing conditions permit); and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Shall not be illuminated. Only one such sign
may be displayed on each street frontage of the property to which it refers. A
solid sign may be attached to such real estate sign; both signs shall be
removed within seven days from the time the premises were sold, rented, or
leased.
      (5)   Owner-occupied sign. One residential sign not exceeding one square
foot in area for each sign face and bearing only property numbers, address
numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other identification of premises
not denoting commercial activity. The maximum aggregate sign area shall be two
square feet;
      (6)   Manager or office of manager signs.
         (a)   Generally. Signs which identify the location of the manager or
the location of the manager of the property; and
         (b)   Location. In all zones; but not less than five feet inside the
property line in residence zones, and not less than one foot inside the
property lines in business and industrial zones. Four square feet in area, each
side, allowed.
      (7)   Window signs. Window signs with less than 50% coverage, signs
placed or displayed on a window or window frame, covering less than 50% of the
window area announcing special sales, change of management, or similar
information, and designed to be viewed from adjacent streets, sidewalks, public
rights-of-way, or parking lots.
         (a)   Height. Not applicable;
         (b)   Location. Not applicable; and
         (c)   Other restrictions. Shall be temporary signs. Where not
temporary, then permanent window signs shall be counted as part of the total
allowable sign area and total allowable number of signs.
      (8)   Changeable copy signs (moveable).
         (a)   Signs of this nature are typically 22 inches by 28 inches in
size with replaceable copy poster. Such signs may be displayed within four feet
of the primary access door of a business.
         (b)   Such signs shall be pedestal mounted and shall not interfere
with pedestrian traffic or cause a nuisance or hazard:
            1.   Size. Signs shall be 22 inches by 28 inches, plus the sign
frame;
            2.   Height. Sign holders or frames must be between four feet, six
inches and five feet in height. The base or the sign shall be of the pedestal
style customarily used in retail trade;
            3.   Location. Limited to business zones; and
            4.   Other restrictions. Shall be free-standing and taken inside at
the close of the business day. Signs may not be made of iridescent or
phosphorescent colors or be illuminated. The frame shall be black, brown, gold,
or silver in color. One sign may be allowed per business, which sign shall not
count as part of the total signage per §
153.097(G).
      (9)   Governmental units. Flags and insignia of any governmental unit, or
civic, educational, or religious organization, except when displayed in
connection with promotion:
         (a)   Memorial plaques, historical markers, integral decorative, or
architectural features of buildings, except trademarks, moving parts, or moving
lights; and
         (b)   Legal notices, identification, information, warning,
trespassing, or directional signs erected or required by governmental units.
   (B)   Signs allowed by permit in all zones. The following signs may be
placed in all zones by permit, subject to the restrictions and limitations
specified in this division (B) and §
153.097 and §
153.099.
      (1)   Construction announcement signs. Signs placed on real property upon
which construction is to take place, or is taking place, which contain
information regarding the individuals and firms directly connected with the
construction project, including the name of the contractor, the contractors,
the real estate licensee, and the future tenants:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed six feet on a parcel of land less than
one acre. Not to exceed 64 square feet in sign area per facing on a parcel of
land of one acre or more;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed six feet on a parcel of land less than
one acre and shall not exceed eight feet on a parcel of land of one acre or
more;
         (c)   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property line in
residential zones, and not less than one foot inside the property line in
business and industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Shall be non-illuminated signs. Shall be
removed within seven days after issuance of certificate of occupancy. Only one
such sign may be displayed on each street frontage of the property to which it
refers.
      (2)   Institutional signs. Signs identifying the premises of, or
announcing the activities conducted by a church, school, hospital, nursing
home, or similar institutional facility:
         (a)   Size. The aggregate size of all signs pursuant to this
subchapter shall not exceed 24 square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed five feet, if free-standing;
         (c)   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property line in
residential zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Only one such sign may be displayed for each
street frontage.
      (3)   Real estate signs for property of one acre or more. Signs offering
developed or undeveloped property of one acre or more for sale, lease, or rent:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed 32 square feet in sign area. In the event
that a sign does not exceed 12 square feet in sign area, a sign permit shall
not be required, and the provisions of division (A)(4) above shall be
applicable;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed eight feet, if free-standing;
         (c)   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property line in
residential zones, and not less than one foot inside the property line in
commercial and industrial areas (if existing conditions permit); and
         (d)   Other restrictions.
            1.   Shall not be illuminated signs;
            2.   Only one such sign may be displayed per street frontage of the
property to which it refers; and
            3.   Shall be removed no later than immediately after sale or
development is completed.
   (C)   Signs allowed by permit in all residential zones. The following signs
may be placed in all residential zones by permit, subject to the restrictions
and limitations specified in this division (C) and §
153.097 and §
153.100:
      (1)   Apartment/multi-family identification signs. Identifying an
apartment or multi-family building or an apartment or multi-family complex by
name and/or address:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed 24 square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Height. Shall not be more than five feet in height;
         (c)   Location. Not less than five feet inside the property line; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Only one such sign may be displayed on each
street frontage, if illuminated, must be subdued.
      (2)   Subdivision signs. Signs identifying a subdivision or unit
development plan:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed 15 square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed six feet in height; and
         (c)   Other restrictions. May be displayed at street entrance to
subdivision. Not more than two such non-illuminated signs may be displayed at
each entrance if they are an integrated part of an entrance or boundary wall;
otherwise, only one such sign at each entrance.
      (3)   Subdivision model home signs. Signs identifying a model home:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed six square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed six feet in height; and
         (c)   Other restrictions. May be displayed only on the premises of the
model home which it identifies. Only one such sign may be displayed per model
home.
   (D)   Signs allowed by permit in business and industrial zones. The
following signs may be placed in business and industrial zones by permit,
subject to the restrictions and limitations specified in this division (D) and
§
153.097 and §
153.100.
      (1)   Advertising signs or billboards.
         (a)   It is the intent of this division (D)(1) to establish reasonable
and uniform limitations, safeguards, and controls for the operation and use of
advertising signs or billboards in highway-oriented business locations.
Advertising requirements are deemed necessary in the public interest to protect
the list and value of adjoining properties, as well as the best interests of
the community. Advertising signs or billboards may be permitted as a special
exception subject to the requirements of this division (D)(1) and §
153.014.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (D)(1), an advertising sign shall
be construed in accordance with the definition and subject to the provisions of
this subchapter and as a special exception as set forth in §
153.014.
         (c)   One advertising sign shall be permitted on any lot of at least
300 feet of frontage on a street designated as a primary arterial in the PB,
GB, and I-2 Districts, and one additional advertising sign shall be permitted
for each 300 feet of additional frontage.
         (d)   Minimum setback lines shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of the applicable district, or 50 feet, whichever is greater.
         (e)   No advertising sign shall be permitted within 100 feet of a
residential zone district unless the sign is provided with landscape screening.
         (f)   The number of traffic access points shall not exceed one for
each such sign frontage.
         (g)   The face of an advertising sign shall not be greater than 18
feet in vertical dimension nor greater than 55 feet in horizontal dimension,
except as provided in division (D)(1)(i) below and shall not contain more than
two advertising signs per facing.
         (h)   The full face of the sign shall be viewed along the line of
travel to which it is exposed for a distance of at least 250 feet along the
centerline of the frontage street measured from a point opposite the center of
the sign and perpendicular to the street’s centerline; however:
            1.   In the case of a sign parallel (or within 20 degrees of
parallel) to a one-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least
400 feet;
            2.   In the case of a sign which is from three to 20 degrees of
parallel to a two-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least
400 feet;
            3.   In the case of a sign parallel (or within three degrees of
parallel) to a two-way street, the required viewing distance shall be at least
250 feet in each direction; and
            4.   In the case of a sign so placed that it can be viewed from
more than one street, the above viewing distance requirements shall be
applicable to only one street.
         (i)   The vertical dimension of the sign face may be increased to 22
feet provided the required viewing distance in division (D)(1)(h) above is
increased to 500 feet and the facing contains only one sign, and the sign is
perpendicular or within 15 degrees of being perpendicular to the frontage
street.
         (j)   The maximum height of advertising signs erected on the ground
shall not exceed 40 feet above the street elevation to which the sign is
oriented.
      (2)   Barber poles. Rotating or stationary cylindrical poles of the
traditional red, white, and blue spiral striped design, identifying the
premises as a barber shop:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed two and one-half feet in length;
         (b)   Height. Not applicable;
         (c)   Location. In all business zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Shall be attached by brackets to the barber
shop being identified. Top of sign shall not extend above the roofline of the
barber shop being identified. Such signs may move or rotate, notwithstanding
the general prohibition of moving or rotating signs in §
153.099(C). Also, such signs if illuminated, must be subdued.
      (3)   Changeable copy signs (permanent).
         (a)   Exterior signs or sections, that are fixed in place, and
designated to be used with removable graphics to allow changing of copy. Such
signs shall be allowed for facilities used primarily for the presentation of
theatrical, cultural, or sports events and shall be computed as part of the
total sign area allowed.
         (b)   Size, height, location, and other restrictions. Applicable under
the appropriate division, depending upon the type of sign utilized.
      (4)   Commercial banners; commercial flags, pennants. Banners, flags, and
pennants generally made of flexible material, displayed for business promotion
purposes:
         (a)   Size. Banners are not to exceed 30 square feet;
         (b)   Height. Not to extend above the roof of the building;
         (c)   Location. In all business and/or industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Shall be temporary signs. Shall be non-
illuminated signs. Not more than four permits for signs pursuant to this
division (D)(4) shall be issued to any one business entity in any one calendar
year. Length of time to be specified in the permit application. See §
153.022(A)(6) and §
153.067(C)(16) for additional restrictions and procedure for pennants and other
similar attracting or advertising devices.
      (5)   Directory signs. A sign, or set of similarly designed individual
signs, placed or displayed in sequence, to list all or part of the businesses
within a building or business complex. Directory signs may be a part of a free-
standing sign or may be placed separately on a building. For conditions
regarding free-standing signs see division (D)(6) below:
         (a)   Size. When placed on a building, signs shall not exceed six
square feet in sign area for any one business so identified. This division (D)
(5) refers only to those signs that are to be placed upon an exterior wall or
facade of the building. The total area of occupancy signs shall be limited to
10% of the facade of the building and shall not exceed 40 square feet in area;
         (b)   Height. When mounted on a building, shall not extend above the
roofline of the building on which the sign display is placed;
         (c)   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrict ions. Directory or occupancy signs may be
combined with a free-standing sign. When combined with a free-standing sign,
the combination shall be counted as part of the allowable sign area. For
double-faced signs that are free-standing, the double-faced sign may not exceed
24 inches in thickness. As with free-standing signs, they shall be required to
be placed in a landscaped area no less than 70 square feet in size. They should
be monument base style signs. When it is not possible or feasible to use a
monument base style sign, then pole signs may be used as long as they do not
exceed eight feet in height. The design, materials, and color of the structure
supporting a free-standing sign or business directory or combination thereof,
shall be required to have a design, similar materials, and colors of the
structure or structures being identified. Materials allowed are wood, masonry,
stucco over wood, or steel frame, and pre-cast concrete,
      (6)   Free-standing business center identification signs.
         (a)   Free-standing signs which identify a business center. These may
be a combination of business center identification sign as well as occupancy
signs. These may be double-faced signs. They shall be maintained in a
landscaped area surrounding the base of the sign not less than 70 square feet
in area. In the event it is not possible or feasible to provide the minimum
landscaped area, then a pole sign may be used without a structural base. When a
structural base is provided it shall be limited to wood, masonry, stucco over
wood, or steel frame, and pre-cast concrete.
         (b)   The design, color, and materials shall be similar to the
structure or structures being identified.
            1.   Size and height. Height shall be limited to eight feet. The
total sign area may not exceed 120 square feet (including both sides of a
sign). Free-standing signs may be combined with directory signs;
            2.   Location. Not less than one foot inside the property line,
except in all business and industrial/ones; except for the PB District, not
less than 20 feet inside the property line; and
            3.   Other restrictions. See “directory signs - other
restrictions”. Only one such sign may be displayed in each business center, or
at each business existing on an individual legal parcel of land. In the event
that a business center being identified by one sign consists of three or fewer
individual businesses, then each business may be identified on the free-
standing sign. Such signs shall be encouraged as a means of reducing the need
for additional signage on the face of the buildings.
      (7)   Free-standing individual business signs. Free-standing signs which
identify a building, business, profession, or industry not associated with a
business center:
         (a)   Size and height. See “free-standing signs” above;
         (b)   Location. In all business and industrial zones, not less than
one foot inside the property line; and
         (c)   Other restrictions. No more than one such sign may be displayed
on a legal parcel or lot; however, in the event that such parcel on which the
individual business is located has two or more street frontages, each of which
has 200 feet or more, an additional sign shall be allowed for each such
frontage. See also, “directory signs - other restrictions”.
      (8)   Gasoline price signs. On-premises signs identifying the brand and/
or type and price of gasoline sold:
         (a)   Size. Governed by state law; however, the town recommends that
these not exceed 12 square feet in sign area unless dictated by law;
         (b)   Height. Eight feet;
         (c)   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Such signs shall be mounted as specified by
law and shall be mounted in such a fashion that they are in a unified sign
display.
      (9)   Off-premises signs. Signs identifying a business activity,
property, or product at some location other than where the sign is displayed:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed 12 square feet in sign area for a sign
mounted flat on a building, or 25 square feet for a free-standing sign;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed eight feet if free-standing;
         (c)   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Such signs may only identify a building,
business, profession, or industry not fronting on any road or street, but only
having a vehicle access to a road or street by means of an easement. Only one
such sign should be displayed for each building, business, profession, or
industry. See also “directory signs - other restrictions”.
      (10)   On-building identification signs.
         (a)   Permanent signs mounted flat on a building which identify a
building and/or which identify one or more businesses, professions, or
industries conducted on the premises.
         (b)   Such signs shall be allowed as long as no more than three signs
for identification purposes are provided for any business, profession, or
industry. For further definition, see §
153.096.
            1.   Size. Shall be computed as part of the allowable 120 square
feet of signage;
            2.   Height. Shall not exceed above the roofline of the same
building upon which the sign is placed or displayed;
            3.   Location. In all business or industrial zones; and
            4.   Other restrictions. Only one on-building identification sign
shall be displayed per side of a commercial or industrial building with no more
than four such signs per building. In no event shall such signs face onto a
residential area. The Executive Director may issue a temporary permit, not to
exceed 90 days, for provision of temporary signs until such time as permanent
signs can be installed on buildings. Such temporary signs shall be governed by
all of the rules and regulations specified in this subchapter.
      (11)   Parking lot signs.
         (a)   Signs placed or displayed in parking lots to supply information
to people using such lots, including such information in respect to liability,
entry, exit, and directional information, as necessary to facilitate the safe
movement of vehicles served by the parking area. Handicap parking provision
signs are also covered under this division (D)(11).
         (b)   Such signs are not intended to be advertising signs:
            1.   Size. Shall not exceed four square feet in area;
            2.   Height. Shall not exceed eight feet, unless there are
extenuating circumstances requiring identification of handicapped stall
locations, as a result of changes in topography, or ground level, that do not
permit handicapped persons access to visibility of such signs upon entry to
parking lot areas;
            3.   Location. In all business and industrial zones, or on public
use sites located in residential zones; and
            4.   Other restrictions. Not applicable.
      (12)   Portable signs.
         (a)   A temporary sign designed to be moved from place to place; not
permanently affixed to a building, structure, or the ground.
         (b)   It may be permitted as a temporary use by the Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the procedure and requirements herein and as set forth in §
153.067:
            1.   Size. Shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign area;
            2.   Height. Shall not exceed six feet;
            3.   Location. In LB Local Business Districts and GB General
Business Districts, and never closer than three feet to a street right-of-way
line, or within vision clearance on corner lots; and
            4.   Other restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this subchapter, a permit for a portable sign shall not be issued unless such
sign has been approved by the Executive Director, and is in conformance with
the Building Code. Under no circumstances shall portable signs have flashing or
intermittent lights, be animated, display words such as “stop”, “slow”, “go”,
“caution”, or be shaped like a traffic sign. All portable signs shall be
anchored with chains, and attached to bolts embedded in the ground. See §
153.067(C)(12) for locating portable signs in business districts and see §
153.067(C)(13) for locating portable signs in a residence district.
      (13)   Projecting signs. A sign characterized by its attachment at an
angle to the face of the building as opposed to being mounted flat on the
surface of a building:
         (a)   Size. The area of such signs shall be in accordance with
division (D)(9) above. Such signs shall be counted as part of the total sign
allowance on a particular site. Such signs shall be discouraged where it is
possible to provide adequate signage flat against a building and below the
roofline of a building. In no event, shall such signs extend above the roofline
of a building;
         (b)   Height. Shall not exceed the height of the building as measured
to the top of roof or mansard;
         (c)   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
         (d)   Other restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
subchapter, a permit for a projecting sign shall not be issued unless such sign
has been approved by the Building Inspector and in conformance with the
Building Code.
      (14)   Time and temperature signs. Signs displaying the time or the
temperature, or both:
         (a)   Size. Shall not exceed eight feet if free-standing;
         (b)   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
         (c)   Other restrictions. If mounted on a building, the top of such
sign shall not extend above the roofline of the building on which it is
displayed. The sign area shall be computed as part of the total signage
allowance for each business, profession, or industry being identified.
      (15)   Under canopy signs.
         (a)   Signs suspended no lower than eight feet above a walkway, under
a canopy of a building, which identify a business, profession, or industry
conducted on the premises; and
         (b)   Shall be computed as part of the total allowable sign area.
            1.   Size. Shall not exceed four square feet in sign area per face;
            2.   Height. Such sign shall extend no lower than eight feet above
the area over which it is suspended;
            3.   Location. In all business and industrial zones; and
            4.   Other restrictions. Such signs shall identify only a building,
business, profession, or industry. Only one such sign shall be displayed per
entrance.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.099  SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Bus bench signs. Signs located on benches or on other similar
structures provided for the use of passengers along the route of a bus are
prohibited.
   (B)   Flashing signs. Signs containing lights which flash, blink, or which
give the appearance of the same are prohibited, except for “time and
temperature signs” as allowed by §
153.098(D)(15).
   (C)   Moving or rotating signs. Signs designed to move or rotate in whole or
in part are prohibited, except for barber poles as allowed in §
153.098(D)(2).
   (D)   Off-premises advertising signs. Signs used to advertise the
availability of goods, property, or services at locations other than the
premises on which the sign is located are prohibited, except for advertising
signs or billboards as allowed by division §
153.098(D)(1) and subdivisional directional signs, and off-premises signs as
allowed by §
153.098(D)(9).
   (E)   Portable signs. Sandwich board “A” frame signs are prohibited, either
on the ground or carried by a person. Other portable signs may be permitted as
a temporary use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (F)   Roof signs. Signs which project above the roofline of the building are
prohibited.
   (G)   Signs interfering with traffic safety. Signs adversely affecting
vehicular traffic and pedestrian safety are prohibited.
   (H)   Vehicle signs. Signs placed or displayed on vehicles parked primarily
for the purpose of displaying the sign are prohibited, except for such signs as
required by law.
   (I)   Obsolete signs. Signs no longer identifying a business, profession, or
industry that they were intended to identify. Such signs shall be removed
within 90 days following the dissolution of a business, professional office, or
industrial activity.
(Ord. passed - -1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.100  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public
property without the written consent of the owner or agent thereof.
   (B)   No sign or sign structure other than official highway signs shall be
placed upon, over or in any street or highway right-of-way or any sidewalk.
   (C)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location where it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal, or device. No rotating beam, beacon, or flashing
illumination resembling any emergency lights shall be used in connection with
any sign display, nor shall any sign make use of the words “stop”, “look”,
“danger”, or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as
to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   (D)   No sign or sign structure shall be located in such a manner as to
materially impede the view of any street or highway intersection, or in such a
manner as to materially impede the view of the intersection of a street or
highway with a railroad grade crossing.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain:
      (1)   Any sign which is not included under the types of signs permitted
in this chapter;
      (2)   Any portable or movable sign, except as permitted under the
provisions of this chapter (see §
153.067);
      (3)   Any sign or sign structure affixed to a rooftop or known as a
rooftop sign, which superstructure extends above the highest point of the roof;
or
      (4)   A business sign and advertising sign on the same lot.
   (F)   Signs or sign structures located on a marquee or canopy shall be
affixed flat to the surface thereof, and shall not:
      (1)   Be greater than three feet in vertical measurement above the
marquee or canopy; and
      (2)   Extend vertically below or horizontally beyond more than 18 inches
from the marquee or canopy limits.
   (G)   Signs located on awnings shall be affixed flat to, or painted upon the
surface thereof, shall not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits
of said awning, and shall not be illuminated. Only the name and address of the
use shall be indicated.
   (H)   No sign or sign structure, except a projecting sign structure,
attached to the wall of a building shall extend more than 18 inches
horizontally from such wall.
   (I)   No sign or sign structure attached to the wall of a building shall
extend above the roof or parapet lines of such building; provided, however, in
the case of unified center, including unit development plans, shopping centers,
planned business areas, and enclosed industrial parks, in single ownership or
under unified control, the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a special
exception in accordance with §
153.014, for one such sign per occupant extending not more than four feet above
the roof or parapet line of such building.
   (J)   Business and advertising signs may be illuminated, unless specified
otherwise; provided, however, light reflectors shall not extend more than 12
feet from face of the sign. Where a sign is illuminated by light reflected upon
it, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of adjoining property.
   (K)   Not more than one projecting business sign structure shall be allowed
for each lot or occupant thereof, and the maximum surface area of such sign
shall not exceed 240 square feet per side. Only one side of a projecting sign
shall be considered in computing total allowable sign surface area. In no case
shall the sign structure extend more than eight feet from or beyond its
supporting building. No projecting sign shall be at its lowest point less than
eight feet above grade level.
   (L)   Free-standing signs shall not be higher than 40 feet above the street
elevation to which the sign is oriented, and the maximum surface area of such
sign shall not exceed 300 square feet per side.
   (M)   Signs or sign structures shall be setback in accordance with the
building setback lines required by the district; provided, however:
      (1)   In case the supporting building for a projecting sign is located
closer than eight feet to the building setback line, the projecting sign may
extend in front of said setback line, but in no case shall such sign extend
beyond the property line, in accordance with the standards of this division
(M); or
      (2)   In the case of free-standing signs where graphic illustration is
exhibited to the Board of Zoning Appeals, indicating extensive landscaping,
compliance with all other standards of this chapter, and appropriate safeguards
for the public safety, such sign or sign structure located no closer than 20
feet to the front property line shall be deemed a sign setback special
exception, and in accordance with the requirements of §
153.014, the Board of Zoning Appeals may approve such special exception.
(Ord. passed - -1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.101  ACCESSORY SIGNS AND SIGN STRUCTURES.
   Accessory signs and sign structures shall be permitted for all buildings,
structures, or premises used for purposes permitted by this chapter in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.102  MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All signs shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
   (B)   (1)   Signs which are no longer functional or are abandoned shall be
removed or relocated in compliance with the regulations of this chapter within
30 days following such abandonment.
      (2)   Signs shall be considered no longer functional and abandoned when
such sign is materially obstructed from view, when its essential elements are
no longer readable, or when a condition of dilapidation is in evidence.
   (C)   (1)   Any legally established nonconforming sign shall be permitted
without alteration in size or location, unless movable or unattached, in
accordance with §
153.012(F).
      (2)   If such sign is damaged or dilapidated to an extent of more than
50% of its replacement cost at time of damage or repair, as determined by the
Executive Director, it shall not be rebuilt; provided, however, that nothing
herein shall prevent maintenance, repainting, or normal repair of legally
established nonconforming signs.
   (D)   Whenever any movable or unattached sign is erected or maintained in
violation of this chapter, said sign may be removed by action of the Executive
Director after due notice is given to the person in interest.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.103  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   All signs identified by this chapter as requiring the issuance of a permit,
shall be governed by the criteria for permit applications established by the
Plan Commission.
   (A)   Criteria for all signs requiring a permit. A permit application for a
sign otherwise in compliance with this subchapter shall be approved if said
sign complies with the following criteria.
      (1)   The sign should serve primarily to identify the business, the
establishment, or the type of activity conducted on the same premises, of the
project, service, or interest being offered for sale, lease, or rent thereon,
except as otherwise specifically provided above.
      (2)   Illumination of signs, where not specifically prohibited by this
chapter, should be at a level consistent with adequate identification and
readability.
      (3)   Signs requiring approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals for special
exceptions in §
153.014 or temporary uses set forth in §
153.067(C)(12) through (C)(14) must first receive the Board’s approval.
      (4)   Appropriate fees have been paid.
   (B)   Permit application procedure.
      (1)   Generally. When a sign permit is required. Applicants are required
to apply for permits prior to undertaking any construction. See §
      (2)   Sign program. Only one sign permit shall be required for each sign
program. Applicants shall be encouraged to provide a sign program as opposed to
obtaining single permits for groups of businesses, professional offices, or
industrial complexes.
      (3)   Application. Application shall be made on an application form
provided by the Executive Director.
   (C)   Sign permit application and fees. Before a sign permit application is
approved, the applicant must submit information to the Executive Director, as
specified in the permit procedures required under §
153.081(F)(1), and post required fees.
   (D)   Duration of permit. All permits are good for the life of the sign
except for permits for those signs which are expressly specified as temporary
signs pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   Nullity of permit. A sign permit shall become null and void if the
sign or sign program for which the permit was issued has not been installed
within 12 months of issuance of said permit.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
§ 153.104  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   After notice and public hearing, any sign permit granted in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked upon a finding by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, that the sign, or sign program, for which the permit was
granted advertises the availability or sale of goods, property, or services no
longer available, or is constructed, installed, or maintained in a manner that
is not in accordance with the approved application.
(Ord. passed - -1996)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
154.01   Adopted by reference
§ 154.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Flood Hazard Areas Ordinance of the county and all amendments thereto,
is hereby adopted into this chapter as if fully set forth herein.  Copies of
the ordinance and said amendments can be found at the County Auditor’s office.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014; Res. 2014-04-014, passed 4-14-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   SEWER DISTRICTS
      
III.   ROAD AND STREET MAINTENANCE; ACCEPTANCES
      
IV.   ROAD, STREET, AND ALLEY VACATIONS
      
V.   ZONING AMENDMENTS; MAPS AND RE-ZONINGS
TABLE I:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
05-02-05-5    - -         Interlocal agreement between the county and
                          Southeastern Indiana Solid Waste District
96-04-30G     4-30-1996   Ratifying and endorsing Pinnacle Gaming Development
                          Corporation proposal and development agreement
-             1-1-2008    Agreement between the Board of Commissioners and the
                          County Sheriff
-             2-6-2011    Sponsorship agreement between the County Council and
                          the Cincinnati Reds LLC
-             - -2013     Agreement between Ohio County, the county, the County
                          Sheriff, and the Ohio Circuit Court
-             6-12-2013   Consulting services agreement between the county and
                          GFC
                         
 
TABLE II:  SEWER DISTRICTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
09-02-08      - -         Establishing the Moorefield-Bennington Sewer District
                         
 
TABLE III:  ROAD AND STREET MAINTENANCE; ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Res. 97-09-02M 9-2-1997    Accepting Mary Ann Drive
                           Accepting and maintaining certain roads in District
12-16-02       12-16-2002  No. 1; to be maintained by the County Highway
                           Department
                           Accepting and maintaining certain roads in District
12-16-02-1     12-16-2002  No. 3; to be maintained by the County Highway
                           Department
                           Accepting and maintaining certain roads in District
03-17-03       3-17-2003   No. 2; to be maintained by the County Highway
                           Department
                          
 
TABLE IV:  ROAD, STREET, AND ALLEY VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             2-16-1993   Vacating a 30-foot right-of- way known as Gridley
                          Road
-             4-19-1993   Vacating a portion of Liberty Street
             11-1-1993   Vacating a portion of Broadway Street
1996-12-02-17 12-2-1996   Closing a part of Harry Tapp Road
1996-12-02-18 12-2-1996   Closing a part of Old Dugan Road
97-10-06-0    10-6-1997   Vacating a certain public way in Cotton and Jefferson
                          Township
                         
 
TABLE V :  ZONING AMENDMENTS; MAPS AND RE-ZONINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Res. -         5-26-1983   Re-zoning a part of Section 31 Town 2, Range 1 west
                           from Residential to Industrial
                           Amending a part of the southwest quarter of Section
-              8-3-1992    3; Township 2 north, Range 2 west of Cotton Township
                           from Agricultural to General Business
                           Amending a part of the northwest quarter of
Res.           3-15-1993   fractional Section 1, Township 1 north, Range 2
                           west, York Township to be classified as GB General
                           Business
-              4-5-1993    Re-zoning certain real estate owned by Vevay Deposit
                           Bank to GB General Business
                           Amending a portion commencing at the northwest
96-01-02-1     1-2-1995    corner of fractional Section 2, Township 1 north,
                           Range 2 west
                           Amending a part of Section 11, Township 2 north,
-              6-5-1995    Range 2 west from A Agricultural to GB General
                           Business
Res. -         6-5-1995    Re-zoning certain real estate from A Agriculture to
                           GB General Business
                           Amending two tracts of property as recorded in
-              8-29-1995   Record Book No. 52, page 51 at the County Records
                           office from A Agricultural to GB General Business
                           Amending a part of Section 2, Township 1 north,
96-01-02-2     1-2-1996    Range 2 west in York Township from RE Recreational
                           to A Agricultural
96-01-02-3     1-2-1996    Re-zoning the maps covering lands in Posey Township
                           from Primary Residence R-1 to GB General Business
                           Amending a part of the incorporated zoning ordinance
96-02-06C      2-6-1996    for Cotton Township from Agricultural A to General
                           Business GB
                           Amending a part of the northeast quarter of
                           fractional Section 35, Township 1 north, Range 1
96-02-06-4     2-6-1996    west of the first principal meridian located in
                           Posey Township from A Agricultural to GB General
                           Business
                           Amending a part of Section 5, Township 2 north,
96-02-06-5     2-6-1996    Range 2 west located in Cotton Township from A
                           Agricultural to GB General Business
96-08-051-10   8-5-1996    Establishing the UD- RGR Riverboat Gaming Resort
                           District
Res. 96-08-05P 8-5-1996    Creating a new Riverboat Gaming Resort land use area
                           and a proposed zone or district
                           Amending a part of Section 34, Township 3 north,
97-03-03-E     3-3-1997    Range 2 west from Single-Family and Two-Family
                           Residence District R1A to GB General Business
97-01-06-A     6-1-1997    Incorporating parcles in the northwest corner of
                           Union Street and Pike Street as GB General Business
                           Reclassifying a zone map from the present
99-08-02       8-2-1999    classification or zones to the UD RGR Riverboat
                           Resort Gaming District, except the FP Floodplain
                           District shall be overlapped by the UD-RGR District
00-03-20       3- -2000    Re-classifying the Riverboat Gaming Resort District
                           to UD-RGR Riverboat Gaming
                           Amending a part of Section 10, Township 4 north,
-              11-21-2005  Range 12 east, Pleasant Township from A Agricultural
                           to GB General Business
                           Amending a part of fractional Section 3, Town 1,
05-02-05-3     5-2-2005    Range 2 west that lies north of the Vevay and
                           Florence Gravel Road from FR Forest Recreational to
                           UD Unit Development Plan
                           Amending a part of fractional Section 9, Town 1
05-02-05-1     5-2-2005    north, Range 2 west from Residential to GB General
                           Business
                           Amending a part of Section 22, Township 5 north,
-              11-21-2005  Range 12 east, Pleasant Township from Agricultural
                           to GB General Business
                           Re-zoning a part of the southwest quarter of Section
08-02-07-2     8-20-2007   18, Township 2, Range 2 west, Jefferson Township
                           from FR Forest Recreation to UD Unit Development
                           Amending a part of Section 32, Township 3 north,
-              12-3-2007   Range 2 west, Cotton Township from A Agriculture to
                           UD Unit Development
                           Amending a part of fractional Section 3, Town 1
04-20-09       4-20-2009   north, Range 2 west from FR Forest Recreational and
                           FP Floodplain to GB General Business
                           Amending a part of the north half of Section 2,
07-06-09       7-6-2009    Township 1 north, Range 2 west, York Township from
                           FR Forest Recreational and FP Floodplain to UD Unit
                           Development
                           Amending a portion of the south half of Section 35,
-              8-8-2009    Township 2 north, Range 2 West York Township from FR
                           Forest Recreation and FP Floodplain to UD Unit
                           Development
                           Amending a part of Section 13, Township 2 north,
07-19-10-1     7- -2010    Range 3 west located in Jefferson Township from FR
                           Forest Recreational to RB Roadside Business
                           Amending a part of Section 26, Township 4 north,
11-01-10       11-1-2010   Range 3West Cotton Township from FR Forest
                           Recreational to GB General Business
11-01-10-1     11-1-2010   Amending Attachment A from A Agriculture to UD Unit
                           Development Plan
                           Amending a part of fractional Section 7, Township 2
02-07-11       2-8-2011    north, Range 1 east from MR Mineral Reserve to FP
                           Floodplain
02-21-11-2     2-21-2011   Amending a part of Exhibit A from FR Forest
                           Recreational to RB Roadside Business
                          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                        10.04,
                               10.05
1-1-1-7                        10.12
1-1-1-8                        10.06
1-1-5-1                        10.11
1-1-6-1                        10.08
2-9.5-2-13                     94.02
Title 3                        33.06
3-5-2-40.1                     33.06
3-11-6.5-4                     30.04
3-11-8                         30.04
3-11-15-13.3                   30.04
4-21.5-1-9                     110.01
4-21.5-3-7                     150.32
5-2-10.1-7                     32.02
5-4-1-18(d)                    30.05
5-14-1.5 et seq.               35.15
5-14-1.5-5(d)                  35.36,
                               35.37
5-14-3-2                       34.40
5-14-3-3                       34.40
5-14-3-3(e)                    34.40
5-14-3 et seq.                 35.15
5-14-3-3.6                     34.40
5-14-3-3.6(e)                  34.40
5-14-3-4                       34.40
5-14-3-8(j)                    34.40
5-14-3-8(k)                    34.40
5-14-3-8.5                     34.40
5-14-3-8.5(b)                  34.40
5-15-6 et seq.                 35.15
5-22-8-2                       34.10
5-22-8-3                       34.10
6-2.5                          34.26
6-3.5-6-9(a)                   34.25
6-8.1-8-3                      34.07
8-1-26                         92.03
8-23-2-15(b)                   70.01
Title 9                        34.42,
                               70.03
9-21-5-11                      70.99
10-14-3-1                      35.16
10-14-3-15                     35.40
10-14-3-16                     35.02
                               32.06,
10-14-3-17                     35.04,
                               35.37
10-14-3-17(b)                  35.15,
                               35.02
10-14-3-17(d)(2)               35.02
10-14-3-17(h)                  35.02
10-14-3-17(i)                  35.17
10-14-3-22                     35.37
10-14-3-26                     35.17
10-14-3-27                     35.17
                               35.02,
10-14-3-29                     35.35,
                               35.36,
                               71.02
10-14-3-29.5                   35.36
10-14-3-31                     35.41
10-19-2-1                      35.02
11-8-8-21                      34.41
12-10-15                       110.01
12-13-5                        110.01
13-1-3                         153.004,
                               153.014
13-1-5.7                       153.004,
                               153.014
13-2-22                        153.053
13-4.1                         153.082
13-7-1                         153.014
13-7-10-5                      153.082
13-7-11                        153.082
13-7-12                        153.082
13-7-22-2(b)                   153.004
13-26-15-11(b)                 31.16
14-4-9-14                      153.026
14-4-9-18                      153.026
14-4-9-19                      153.026
14-16-1                        70.03
15-17-6-11                     90.40
16-10-2                        153.004,
                               153.014
16-10-2.1                      153.065
16-10-2.1-1                    153.004
16-14-4                        153.004
16-18-2-137                    110.04
16-20-1-14                     110.01
16-20-1-26                     110.04
16-20-1-27                     110.04
16-20-2-16                     110.01,
                               111.02
16-21-2                        110.01
16-25-11                       110.01
16-31.1                        153.065
16-41-31                       110.01
16-42-5                        110.01
16-42-5-4                      110.01
20-18-2-2                      32.02
22-9-1-4 et seq.               94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.               94.01
22-9.5-2-2                     94.02
22-9.5-2-3                     94.02
22-9.5-2-4                     94.02
22-9.5-2-8                     94.02
22-9.5-2-9                     94.02
22-9.5-2-11                    94.02
22-9.5-3                       94.03,
                               94.10
22-9.5-4-8                     94.11
22-9.5-5-1                     94.03
22-9.5-5                       94.02
22-9.5-6                       94.02,
                               94.11
22-11-1-1                      153.020
22-11-1-1.5                    153.004
22-11-1-9                      153.004
22-13-2-7                      150.32
22-13-2-7(b)                   150.18
22-15-4                        150.19
32-1-6                         153.014
32-24                          35.41
34-28-5 et seq.                34.42
32-29-7-3                      34.07
35-7-4-1103                    153.014
35-31.5-2-186                  34.08
35-33-11-3                     34.08
35-45-4.1                      153.004
35-50-5-4                      34.08
Title 36                       34.42
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                10.99
                               50.02,
36-1-6-2                       50.05,
                               91.05
36-2-2-8                       35.36
36-2-2-8(b)                    35.37
36-2-4-3                       35.02
36-2-4-8                       130.09,
                               150.01
36-2-5-3                       35.17
36-2-6-17                      34.01
36-2-13.5(b)(4)                34.07
36-2-14-22.3                   33.06
36-2-19-1 et seq.              152.01
36-2-19-4                      152.01
36-5-2-2                       10.15
                               153.002,
                               153.004,
36-7-4                         153.006,
                               153.026,
                               153.053
36-7-4 et seq.                 32.10
36-7-14                        32.11
36-7-4-217                     32.10
36-7-4-218(a)                  32.10
36-7-4-218(e)                  32.10
36-7-4-218(f)                  32.10
36-7-4-220                     32.10
36-7-4-220                     32.10
36-7-4-902 through 36-7-4- 907 153.081
36-7-4-1106                    153.020
36-7-9                         150.01,
                               150.99
36-7-9-1 et seq.               150.01
36-7-9-2                       50.04,
                               150.01
36-7-9-3                       150.01
36-7-10.1-3                    91.05
36-7-10.1-4                    50.05,
                               91.05
36-7-12-4                      32.05
36-7-12-9                      32.05
36-7-12-10                     32.05
36-7-12-11                     32.05
36-7-12-12                     32.05
36-7-12-13                     32.05
36-7-12-14                     32.05
36-7-12-15                     32.05
36-7-12-16                     32.05
36-7-14-3                      32.11
36-7-25                        32.11
36-7-4-211                     32.10
36-8-3-20                      32.07
36-8-10-5                      33.06
36-9-23-30                     31.04
                               
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.                Date Passed Code Section
03-19-12                - -         30.04
Council Res. 03-14-12   - -         30.04
–                     5-26-1983   TSO Table V
–                     5-6-1991    34.61
–                     3-15-1993   TSO Table V
–                     11-15-1993  33.04
–                     1-3-1994    31.02
–                     4-17-1995   92.02
–                     6-5-1995    TSO Table V
Council Res. 96-04-10-6 4-10-1996   34.61
96-08-05P               8-5-1996    TSO Table V
97-03-24F               3-24-1997   34.25
97-09-02M               9-2-1997    TSO Table III
98-09-08-AAJ            9-8-1998    34.01
00-05-01-A              5-1-2000    34.61
00-05-01-C              5-1-2000    34.61
01-04-02                4-2-2001    32.01
Council Res. 06-14-03-4 6-14-2003   34.61
Council Res. 06-14-03-5 6-14-2003   34.61
11-15-04                11-15-2004  34.47
10-13-10                10-13-2010  30.04
06-04-12                6-4-2012    33.06
06-04-12-1              6-4-2012    33.07
04–01-13              4-1-2013    92.05
09-16-13                9-16-2013   33.01
02-18-2014              2-18-2014   33.05,
                                    33.07
2014-04-04              4-4-2014    154.01
05-04-2016-1            5-2-2016    34.48
07-05-2016              7-5-2016    33.09
05-10-2017              5-10-2017   34.61
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                 Date Passed Code Section
–                      - -         32.09
–                      - -         34.61
–                      - -         34.61
05-02-05-5               - -         TSO Table I
09-02-08                 - -         TSO Table II
08-02-10                 - -         33.01
12-06-10                 - -         34.03
06-17-13                 - -         32.02
2009-02-02-09            - -         33.01
1991-6                   - -1991     151.01 -
                                     151.10
1-1991                   5-6-1991    34.46
91-5                     9-3-1991    32.08
4                        10-26-1991  34.26
Council Ord. 4           10-26-1991  34.26
–                      12-30-1991  31.01
–                      12-30-1991  31.15
–                      8-3-1992    TSO Table V
–                      2-16-1993   TSO Table IV
–                      4-5-1993    TSO Table V
–                      4-19-1993   34.61
–                      4-19-1993   TSO Table IV
9                        7-31-1993   95.01
–                      11-1-1993   TSO Table IV
96-01-02-1               1-2-1995    TSO Table V
                                     150.15 -
6-5-95B                  6-5-1995    150.34,
                                     150.99
6-5-95C                  6-5-1995    32.10
–                      8-29-1995   TSO Table V
–                      9-18-1995   34.61
87                       11-20-1995  71.99
                                     153.001 -
                                     153.026,
                                     153.040 -
                                     153.053,
–                      - -1996     153.065 -
                                     153.067,
                                     153.080 -
                                     153.082,
                                     153.095 -
                                     153.104
96-01-02-1               1-2-1996    TSO Table V
96-01-02-2               1-2-1996    TSO Table V
96-01-02-3               1-2-1996    TSO Table V
96-02-06C                2-6-1996    TSO Table V
96-02-06-4               2-6-1996    TSO Table V
96-02-06-5               2-6-1996    TSO Table V
96-04-30G                4-30-1996   TSO Table I
                                     94.01 -
96-07-01-8               7-1-1996    94.08,
                                     94.10,
                                     94.11
96-08-051-10             8-5-1996    TSO Table V
96-10-07-11              10-7-1996   34.61
1996-12-02-17            12-2-1996   TSO Table IV
1996-12-02-18            12-2-1996   TSO Table IV
97-01-21-B               1-21-1997   30.01
97-03-03-C               3-3-1997    34.61
97-03-03-E               3-3-1997    TSO Table V
97-04-07G                4-7-1997    34.61
97-01-06-A               6-1-1997    TSO Table V
97-10-06-0               10-6-1997   TSO Table IV
98-03-02-0               3-2-1998    34.61
98-07-20-AY              7-20-1998   34.08
99-05-17                 5-17-1999   70.03
99-08-02                 8-2-1999    TSO Table V
00-03-20                 3- -2000    TSO Table V
00-05-16                 5-16-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
00-08-07                 8-7-2000    71.99
00-11-20                 11-20-2000  32.11
2001-01-09-04            9-4-2001    34.02
2001-01-09-4A            9-4-2001    150.02
02-02-18                 2-18-2002   92.01
                                     51.01 -
04-15-02                 4-15-2002   51.08,
                                     51.99
Council Ord. 08-10-02-11 8-10-2002   32.05
09-03-02                 9-3-2002    30.01
11-04-02                 11-4-2002   34.27
12-16-02                 12-16-2002  TSO Table III
12-16-02-1               12-16-2002  TSO Table III
01-21-03                 1-21-2003   32.07
03-17-03                 3-17-2003   TSO Table III
06-16-03                 6-16-2003   34.09
09-02-03                 9-2-2003    34.45
10-20-03                 10-6-2003   Ch. 72, Schd. I
Council Ord. 11-8-03-9   11-8-2003   34.61
09-07-04                 9-7-2004    34.61
10-18-04                 10-18-2004  152.03
11-01-04                 11-1-2004   34.61
–                      12-6-2004   34.61
04-18-05                 4-18-2005   33.03
04-18-05-1               4-18-2005   33.03
05-02-05-1               5-2-2005    TSO Table V
05-02-05-3               5-2-2005    TSO Table V
07-05-05                 7-9-2005    34.61
09-06-05                 9-6-2005    70.03
09-19-05                 9-19-2005   152.02
09-19-05-1               9-19-2005   34.06
10-03-05                 10-3-2005   34.44
11-07-05                 11-7-2005   32.06
–                      11-21-2005  TSO Table V
–                      11-21-2005  TSO Table V
01-17-06                 1-17-2006   92.03,
                                     92.99
02-21-06                 2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-1               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-2               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-3               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-4               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-5               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-6               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-7               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-8               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-9               2-21-2006   34.61
02-21-06-10              2-21-2006   34.61
08-21-06-2               8-21-2006   34.61
09-05-06                 9-5-2006    34.61
09-18-06                 9-18-2006   30.02
12-18-06                 12-18-2006  34.61
03-19-07                 3-19-2007   34.02
03-19-07-1               3-19-2007   34.61
06-18-07                 6-18-2007   34.61
07-02-07                 7-18-2007   34.43
08-20-07-1               8-20-2007   92.04
08-02-07-2               8-20-2007   TSO Table V
09-17-07                 9-17-2007   93.01
10-1-07                  10-1-2007   34.61
Council Ord. 11-10-07    11-10-2007  32.04
11-19-07                 11-19-2007  34.61
Council Ord. 11-19-07    11-19-2007  34.61
–                      12-3-2007   TSO Table V
–                      1-1-2008    TSO Table I
03-03-08-6               3-3-2008    34.42
                                     111.01 -
                                     111.18,
04-21-08                 4-21-2008   111.30 -
                                     111.40,
                                     111.99
06-02-08                 6-2-2008    32.03
Council Ord. 06-02-08    6-17-2008   32.03
Council Ord. 06-02-2008  6-2-2008    32.03
2008-07-12-08-1          7-12-2008   32.03
08-18-08                 8-18-2008   34.61
09-02-08                 9-2-2008    32.12
09-15-08                 9-15-2008   34.61
09-15-08-1               9-15-2008   34.61
11-03-08                 11-3-2008   34.61
01-05-09                 12-29-2008  33.01
2008-01-05-09-1          12-29-2008  34.05
01-05-09-2               1-1-2009    34.07
Council Ord. 01-05-09-2  1-1-2009    34.07
01-20-09                 1-20-2009   34.61
01-20-09-1               1-20-2009   34.61
04-06-09                 4-6-2009    33.02
04-06-09-1               4-6-2009    34.61
04-06-09-3               4-6-2009    34.61
04-20-09                 4-20-2009   TSO Table V
07-06-09                 7-6-2009    TSO Table V
07-20-09                 7-20-2009   152.01
09-08-02                 8-2-2009    TSO Table V
08-03-09                 8-3-2009    34.61
–                      8-8-2009    TSO Table V
08-17-09                 8-17-2009   34.61
02-24-10                 2-24-2010   34.61
02-24-10-1               2-24-2010   34.61
03-01-10                 3-1-2010    34.61
04-19-10                 4-19-2010   34.61
06-21-10                 6-21-2010   34.61
07-19-10-1               7- -2010    TSO Table V
06-21-10-1               7-14-2010   34.41
Council Ord. 06-21-10-1  7-14-2010   34.41
07-19-10                 7-19-2010   34.61
08-02-10-1               8-2-2010    34.61
10-04-10                 10-4-2010   34.61
10-04-10-1               10-4-2010   34.61
10-04-10-2               10-4-2010   34.61
                                     130.01 -
10-18-2010               10-18-2010  130.09,
                                     130.99
11-01-10                 11-1-2010   TSO Table V
11-01-10-1               11-1-2010   TSO Table V
01-03-11                 1-3-2011    31.03,
                                     31.16
–                      2-6-2011    TSO Table I
02-07-11                 2-8-2011    TSO Table V
02-22-11                 2-21-2011   33.01
02-21-11-2               2-21-2011   TSO Table V
03-07-11                 3-7-2011    34.61
2010-03-21-11            3-21-2011   31.04
                                     71.01 -
09-19-11                 9-19-2011   71.03,
                                     71.99
09-19-11-1               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-2               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-4               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-5               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-6               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-7               9-19-2011   34.61
09-19-11-8               9-19-2011   34.61
12-19-11                 12-19-2011  34.61
10-03-11                 10-3-2011   34.61
10-17-11                 10-17-2011  34.61
12-05-11                 12-5-2011   34.61
12-05-11-1               12-5-2011   34.61
12-05-11-2               12-5-2011   34.61
12-19-11                 12-19-2011  34.61
12-05-11-3               12-5-2011   34.61
12-19-11-1               12-19-2011  34.61
12-19-11-2               12-19-2011  34.61
02-06-12                 2-6-2012    34.61
04-02-12                 4-2-2012    34.60
05-07-2012               5-7-2012    34.10
05-07-2012-1             5-7-2012    70.02,
                                     70.99
05-07-2012-2             5-7-2012    70.01,
                                     70.99
05-21-12                 5-21-2012   34.03
06-18-12                 6-18-2012   33.01
06-18-12-1               6-18-2012   33.01
08-20-12                 8-20-2012   34.61
08-20-12-1               8-20-2012   34.61
08-20-12-2               8-20-2012   34.61
08-20-12-3               8-20-2012   34.61
10-01-12                 10-1-2012   34.61
10-01-12-1               10-1-2012   34.61
11-05-12                 11-5-2012   34.61
11-05-12-1               11-5-2012   71.99,
                                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
12-17-12                 12-17-2012  34.61
–                      - -2013     TSO Table I
01-07-13                 1-7-2013    34.61
03-04-13                 3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-1               3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-2               3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-3               3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-4               3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-5               3-4-2013    34.61
03-04-13-6               3-4-2013    34.61
                                     35.01 -
                                     35.04,
03-18-13                 3-18-2013   35.15 -
                                     35.21,
                                     35.35 -
                                     35.41
04–01-13               4-1-2013    92.05
04-15-13                 4-15-2013   131.01 -
                                     130.03
–                      6-12-2013   TSO Table I
07-01-13                 7-1-2013    91.01 -
                                     91.07
07-01-13-1               7-1-2013    150.01
08-19-13                 8-19-2013   34.61
10-07-13                 10-7-2013   50.01 -
                                     50.06
10-07-13-1               10-7-2013   34.61
10-07-13-2               10-7-2013   34.61
10-07-13-3               10-7-2013   34.61
12-02-13                 12-2-2013   34.61
12-16-13                 12-16-2013  34.61
                                     90.01 -
                                     90.07,
                                     90.20 -
2014-01-03               1-13-2014   90.27,
                                     90.40 -
                                     90.50,
                                     90.99
03-03-2014               3-3-2014    34.61
03-12-2014               3-12-2014   34.40,
                                     34.99
Council Ord. 03-12-2014  3-12-2014   34.40,
                                     34.99
03-17-2014               3-17-2014   154.01
08-18-2014               8-18-2014   34.61
12-29-2014               12- -2014   30.03
03-16-2015               3-16-2015   34.61
04-20-2015               4-20-2015   34.61
03-16-2015               3-16-2015   34.61
04-20-2015               4-20-2015   34.61
05-04-2015               5-4-2015    33.04
08-03-2015               8-3-2015    34.61
08-03-2015-1             8-3-2015    34.61
10-05-2015               10-5-2015   34.61
10-05-2015-1             10-5-2015   34.61
12-21-2015               12-21-2015  34.61
Council Ord. 01-13-2016  1-13-2016   30.05
02-16-2016-1             2-16-2016   34.61
02-16-2016-2             2-16-2016   34.61
04-04-2016               4-4-2016    90.40
04-18-2016               4-8-2016    34.61
04-18-2016-1             4-8-2016    34.61
05-16-2016               5-16-2016   34.61
05-16-2016-1             5-16-2016   34.61
05-16-2016-2             5-16-2016   34.61
05-16-2016-3             5-16-2016   34.61
05-16-2016-4             5-16-2016   110.01 -
                                     110.07
07-15-2016-1             7-5-2016    33.08
08-01-2016               8-1-2016    33.04
08-01-2016-1             8-1-2016    94.01 -
                                     94.11
08-15-2016               8-15-2016   34.61
09-06-2016               9-6-2016    34.61
11-21-2016               11-21-2016  34.61
11-21-2016-1             11-21-2016  34.61
11-21-2016-2             11-21-2016  34.61
11-21-2016-3             11-21-2016  34.61
11-21-2016-4             11-21-2016  34.61
11-21-2016-5             11-21-2016  34.61
03-06-2017               3-6-2017    92.03,
                                     92.99
05-15-2017               5-15-2017   90.41
05-15-2017-1             5-15-2017   34.61
08-21-2017               8-21-2017   34.61
08-21-2017-1             8-21-2017   34.61
08-21-2017-2             8-21-2017   34.61
08-21-2017-3             8-21-2017   34.61
                                    
 
