CITY OF TELL CITY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-20 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1215, passed 7-1-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Tell City
Code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified ordinances" or
"code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the City Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The City Common Council.
      COUNTY. Perry County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the city is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment to this code stating that the
provisions of an act are severable as provided in division (B) does not affect
the operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-ways,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The city shall be entitled to recover as a part of the prosecution of
any portion of this code its reasonable attorney fees and other legal costs
incurred by the city in enforcing this code.
(Am. Ord. 1085, passed 2-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT; CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
      
35.   CITY POLICIES
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
37.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
38.   CIVIL DEFENSE
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT; CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Organization
Executive Branch
   
30.15   Mayor
   
30.16   Board of Public Works and Safety
Legislative Branch
   
30.30   Common Council
   
30.31   Order of Business
   
30.32   Contempt and disorder in the Council room
   
30.33   Introduction and adoption of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.34   Questions of order
   
30.35   Appeal of decision of presiding officer
   
30.36   Suspension of rules
   
30.37   Elections; Councilmanic districts
Fiscal Branch
   
30.50   Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The government of the city shall consist of three branches, those being:
   (A)   Executive branch;
   (B)   Legislative branch; and
   (C)   Fiscal branch.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 30.15 MAYOR.
   The Mayor is the Chief Executive and head of the executive branch. He or she
shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in the state
statutes. The Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments, the heads of the
Department of Law, the Sewer Department and the Street Department are appointed
by the Mayor and shall serve at his or her pleasure.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.16 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Public Works and Safety within
the executive branch. The Board shall be the chief administrative body of the
city and shall have the control of the day-to-day operations of the following
executive departments, which are hereby established:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Sewer Department; and
      (4)   Street Department.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety are the Mayor and
two voters of the city, who shall be chosen by the Mayor and serve at his or
her pleasure.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 30.30 COMMON COUNCIL.
   (A)   The legislative branch of the city is the Common Council. The Common
Council shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and appropriate tax
monies received by the city and to perform other necessary and desirable
legislative functions.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall
perform the duties prescribed by state statutes and any other duties as the
Council may direct.
   (C)   The regular meeting date and time for the Common Council shall be at
7:00 p.m. on the first Monday of each month.
(Ord. 791-A, passed 4-7-1997)
   (D)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the President of the Common
Council, shall be the presiding officer of the Council pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-
8, and meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the following rules contained in
§§
30.31 through
30.36, and in accordance with the applicable statues of the state, which are
hereby adopted as a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.31 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business to be followed at the meeting of the Common Council
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Reading of minutes and approval of same;
   (C)   Comments of citizens;
   (D)   Unfinished business, including reports from committees, boards or
commissions or including ordinances or resolutions already introduced;
   (E)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
   (F)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already considered;
and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.32 CONTEMPT AND DISORDER IN THE COUNCIL ROOM.
   No person shall use violent or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly
manner, or refuse to obey the orders of the Mayor or presiding officer in the
Council room while the Common Council is in session. The Mayor or presiding
officer may order the removal from the Council room of anyone who intentionally
disturbs the decorum of a council meeting.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.33 INTRODUCTION AND ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)    All ordinances shall be read three times before being passed, and no
ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced unless the
provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-13, as amended, are complied with.
   (B)   Resolutions shall be subject to the same rule and the method of
introduction and adoption as ordinances.
   (C)   On the passage or adoption of any ordinance or resolution, the yeas
and nays shall be entered in the record and the ordinance shall be processed in
accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14 through 36-4-6-17, as amended.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.34 QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
   The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide all questions of order. He or
she shall decide whether any questions submitted to the Council for adoption or
rejection are decided in the affirmative or negative.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.35 APPEAL OF DECISION OF PRESIDING OFFICER.
   From any decision of the presiding officer any member may appeal to the
Council. The appeal shall be by motion duly made and seconded. A majority vote
of all the elected members of the Council is necessary to overrule the chair.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.36 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The order of business may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members
of the Council.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 30.37 ELECTIONS; COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   First councilmanic district. The first councilmanic district of the
city hereby includes all of that territory bounded as follows: Beginning at the
Ohio River at the centerline of Humboldt Street extended; thence east to the
intersection of Sixth and Humboldt; thence north to the intersection of Sixth
and Franklin; thence east along the centerline of Franklin to the intersection
of Franklin and 18th Street; thence south along the centerline of 18th street
to the point where it intersects Windy Creek; thence westerly meandering along
the centerline of Windy Creek through Block 236 across 17th Street and into
Block 216; thence southwesterly through Block 216 and south across Humboldt
Street and into Block 217; thence south-southwesterly through Block 217 until
it intersects 16th Street near the southwest corner of Block 217; thence south
along the centerline of 16th Street until it intersects with Pestalozzi Street;
thence east along the centerline of Pestalozzi Street to the middle of the
intersection of 19th and Pestalozzi Street and all of that territory that lies
south of the above-described line within the corporate limits of Tell City.
   (B)   Second councilmanic district. The second councilmanic district of the
city hereby includes all that territory bounded as follows: All of that
territory within the corporate limits of the city which lies to the east of the
below described west boundary line of the city and between the centerline of
Pestalozzi Street to the south and the centerline of Tell Street to the north
and thence east to the eastern boundary of the corporate limits of the city:
Commencing at the intersection of 15th and Tell Street; thence south along the
centerline of 15th Street to the intersection of 15th and Fulton Street; thence
west along the centerline of Fulton Street to the intersection of Fulton and
12th Street; thence south along the center of 12th Street to the intersection
of 12th and Mozart Street; thence east along the centerline of Mozart Street to
its intersection with 15th Street; thence south along the centerline of 15th
Street to its intersection with Franklin Street; thence east along the
centerline of Franklin Street to its intersection with 18th Street; thence
south along the centerline of 18th Street to its intersection with Windy Creek;
thence westerly meandering along the centerline of Windy Creek through Block
236 across 17th Street and into Block 216; thence southwesterly through Block
216 and south across Humboldt Street and into Block 217; thence south-
southwesterly through Block 217 until it intersects 16th Street near the
southwest corner of Block 217; thence south along the centerline of 16th Street
until it intersects with Pestalozzi Street.
   (C)   Third councilmanic district. The third councilmanic district of the
city hereby includes all that territory bounded as follows: For the southern
boundary of this district, commence at the intersection of the Ohio River and
extended Humboldt Street; thence east along the centerline of Humboldt Street
to its intersection with Sixth Street; thence north along the centerline of
Sixth Street to its intersection with Franklin Street; thence east along the
centerline of Franklin Street to its intersection with 15th Street for the
eastern boundary of this district; thence north long the centerline of 15th
Street to its intersection with Mozart Street; thence west along the centerline
of Mozart Street to its intersection with 12th Street; thence north along the
centerline of 12th Street to its intersection with Fulton Street; thence east
along the centerline of Fulton Street to its intersection with 15th Street;
thence north along the centerline of 15th Street to its intersection with Tell
Street; thence east along the centerline of Tell Street to the eastern boundary
of the corporate limits of Tell City; thence north along the eastern boundary
of the corporate limits of the city to extended Herrman Street for the northern
boundary of this district; thence west along the centerline of extended Herrman
Street to its intersection with 24th Street; thence south on 24th Street until
it coincides with Dauby Lane and along the centerline of Dauby Lane to its
intersection with extended Lafayette Street; thence west along the centerline
of extended Lafayette Street and Lafayette Street to its intersection with the
Ohio River for the western boundary of this district; thence southeasterly
meandering along the Ohio River to its intersection with extended Humboldt
Street.
   (D)   Fourth councilmanic district. The fourth councilmanic district of the
city hereby includes all that territory within the corporate limits of the
city, with the west boundary being the Ohio River and the south boundary being
Lafayette Street from its intersection with the Ohio River to its intersection
with Dauby Lane; and the area north of the south boundary as described above
and east of the west boundary as described above within the corporate limits of
the city.
   (E)   Elections. The district candidates receiving the most votes in the
respective district shall be elected to the Common Council and the at large
candidate receiving the most votes from the entire city shall be elected to the
Common Council.
(Ord. 756, passed 11-7-1994; Am. Ord. 889, passed 11-4-2002; Am. Ord. 1064,
passed 12-27-2012; Am. Ord. 1198, passed 12-19-2022)
FISCAL BRANCH
§ 30.50 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the Fiscal Officer of the city and the head of
the fiscal branch. He or she shall perform the duties as prescribed by I.C. 36-
4-10 et seq. and any other duties as the Common Council may require by
ordinance.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4,
as amended, to appoint one Deputy Clerk-Treasurer to be paid solely from funds
appropriated for the office of Clerk-Treasurer. The Deputy shall work under the
exclusive direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, and serve at the pleasure of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office for
the administrative records of the city's utilities. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
be compensated for services he or she shall render to the city's utilities.
(Ord. 733, passed 4-5-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to make advance payments, see § 35.11
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
31.01   Plan Commission
   
31.02   Department of Planning and Engineering
   
31.03   Economic Development Commission
   
31.04   Electric Utility Board
   
31.05   Water Board
   
31.06   Department of Law
   
31.07   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.08   Revolving Loan Fund Board
   
31.09   Non-Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Board
   
31.10   Department of Planning and Development
   
31.11   Stormwater Management Department
§ 31.01 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is established a City Plan Commission under the authority
provided in Chapter 174 of the Acts of the State General Assembly of 1947, as
amended.
   (B)   The membership of the City Plan Commission shall consist of seven
members, appointed as follows:
      (1)   Three persons in the city government, to be appointed by the Common
Council, whose term shall be co-extensive with the terms of office to which
they were elected or appointed; and
      (2)   Four citizen members residing within the corporate limits of the
city, to be appointed by the Mayor. Each citizen member shall be appointed for
a term of four years.
(`81 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 338, passed 2-11-1958)
§ 31.02 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND ENGINEERING.
   There is hereby established a Department of Planning and Engineering to be
operated and controlled by the Board of Public Works and Safety, and the
Director of Planning and Engineering is appointed by the Mayor and serves at
the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 733, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 31.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is a City Development Commission, which Commission shall be the
City Department of Economic Development.
   (B)   This Commission shall have five members, all to be appointed in the
manner provided division (C) below.
   (C)   The members of the City Development Commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor in the following manner: three of the members to be so appointed
shall be selected by the Mayor; one member shall be nominated by the County
Council; and one member shall be nominated by the City Common Council. The City
Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly notify each body required to make a nomination
or selection at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the current term of a
particular member of the Commission. The body or person required to make a
nomination or selection shall do so within 15 days after receiving the notice.
Each of the nominees and selectees shall then be appointed by the Mayor within
ten days after receiving the nomination or selection. Each member shall serve
for a term of four years. In the event that the County Council or the City
Common Council shall fail to make a nomination within the time specified
herein, the Mayor may select and appoint a person without a nomination. In the
event any person appointed as a Commissioner shall fail to qualify within ten
days after the mailing to him or her of the notice of his or her appointment,
or if any commissioner, after qualifying, shall die, resign, vacate the office
or be removed, a new Commissioner shall be selected or nominated and appointed
to fill the vacancy in the same manner as the Commissioner in respect to which
the vacancy occurs, and the commissioner so appointed shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term. Commissioners shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until the respective successors have been duly
appointed and have qualified. The Commissioners shall receive no salaries but
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed as a Commissioner who is not either a
resident of the city, employed in the city, or owner of a business in the city.
If any Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above categories, his
or her appointment on the Board shall thereby terminate and his or her office
shall become vacant.
      (1)   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall
take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Commission originally appointed shall meet within 30 days after
his or her appointment at a time and place designated by the Mayor for the
purpose of organization, and shall meet to reorganize in February of each
succeeding year.
      (3)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as President, one as
Vice-President, and one as Secretary, each of which shall serve from the day of
his or her election until January 31 next following his or her election, and
until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (E)   The Commission shall adopt any by-laws, rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings. Regular or
special meetings shall be held at times as the Commission may determine and
upon notice as it may fix, and a majority of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum, and concurrence of a majority shall be necessary to authorize any
action.
   (F)   Any Commissioner may be removed from office for neglect of duty,
incompetency, disability to perform his or her duties or any other good cause
by the officer or board which nominated him or her. A Commissioner so removed
may obtain judicial review of the removal by filing a complaint in the County
Circuit Court, but the burden of proof shall be upon the officer or board which
removed the Commissioner. The cause shall be placed on the advanced calendar
and be tried as other civil cases are tried by the court without the
intervention of a jury. An appeal from the judgment may be taken as in civil
actions.
   (G)   No Commissioner shall have any pecuniary interest in any contract,
employment, leases, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this act, and
any transaction made in which any Commissioner has a pecuniary interest shall
be void ab initio; provided, however, that any property required for the
purposes of this act in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be
acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
   (H)   The City Development Commission is hereby granted all the powers and
duties set out in I.C. 18-6-4.5 and acts amendatory thereto.
(`81 Code, § 17-2) (Ord. 423, passed 9-11-1967; Am. Ord. 478, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 31.04 ELECTRIC UTILITY BOARD.
   (A)   The City Electric Utility Board shall consist of six members, not more
than a majority of whom shall be members of the same political party. Four
members of the Electric Utility Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, and two
members of the Electric Utility Board shall be appointed by the Common Council.
All members shall serve a term of four years. In the event a member fails for
any reason to complete his or her term of office, a successor shall be
appointed to complete the term of office. If the office was one originally
appointed by the Mayor, the Mayor shall appoint a successor. If the office was
one originally appointed by the Common Council, the Common Council shall
appoint a successor. Not more than two of the appointees by the Mayor shall be
members of the same political party, and not more than one of the appointees of
the Common Council shall be members of the same political party.
   (B)   Within seven days after the Mayor or the Common Council has appointed
a person to serve as a member of the Electric Utility Board, the person shall
file with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city an executed oath of office in a form
customarily used for the qualification of municipal officers. In the event that
a member fails to take and file the oath of office within seven days after his
or her appointment, his or her place on the Board shall automatically be
vacant.
   (C)   The Mayor may suspend or remove from office any member of the Electric
Utility Board appointed by him or her or a prior executive by notifying the
members to that effect and sending a written statement of the reasons for the
suspension or removal to the Common Council. The Common Council may suspend or
remove from office any member of the City Electric Utility Board appointed by
it or a prior council by notifying the member to that effect and sending a
written statement of the reason for the removal to the Mayor.
   (D)   The members of the Electric Utility Board shall hold regular meetings
at least once in each calendar month. The members of the Electric Utility Board
shall elect a chairman who shall serve for a period of one year and until his
or her successor is duly elected. In addition, the Electric Utility Board shall
adopt rules and regulations governing the time and place for the holding of its
regular meetings, and provide for the procedure of calling special meetings. A
copy of the rules and regulations and all subsequent amendments thereto shall
be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer within three days
after their adoption. The Chairman of the City Electric Utility Board and each
other Board member shall receive a salary as determined by the Common Council.
   (E)   The Electric Utility Board shall have all powers and duties prescribed
by the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-3-4, except as specifically set forth herein.
   (F)   The Chairman of the Electric Utility Board, or his or her designee,
shall submit a monthly written report to the Mayor and the Common Council
describing the condition and operations of the Municipal Electric Department.
In addition, upon the request of the Common Council, the City Electric Utility
Board Chairman, or his or her designee, shall personally appear before the
Common Council to describe the operations of the Municipal Electric Department.
   (G)   The Common Council shall have all the authority vested in it pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 8-1-2-101. The Electric Utility Board, prior to
awarding or entering into any contract involving a project covered by the
provisions of I.C. 8-1-2-101, shall obtain the prior approval of the Common
Council.
   (H)   The Electric Utility Board shall submit to the Common Council its
annual budget within ten days after its completion for the Common Council to
review and approve.
(Ord. 604, passed 1-10-1985)
§ 31.05 WATER BOARD.
   (A)   The City Water Board is hereby created for purposes of operating the
City Water Department.
   (B)   The Water Board shall consist of the duly elected and qualified
members of the City Common Council.
(Ord. 618, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 31.06 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   There is hereby created a Department of Law.
(Ord. 586, passed 8-15-1983)
§ 31.07 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a municipal Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   (B)   A Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of four members
appointed by the Executive of the city on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more than two members may be
affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   Each appointment is for a four-year term. All terms expire on the
first Monday in January, but a member continues in office until his or her
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
Mayor by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If
a vacancy occurs, the Mayor shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall select a
President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have authority to act as
the president of the board during the absence or disability of the President.
The board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct any programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3-10 and 36-10-3-11
et seq.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as the other departments of city government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Ord. 692, passed 5-20-1991)
§ 31.08 REVOLVING LOAN FUND BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Revolving Loan Fund Board, which shall
be known as the City Revolving Loan Fund Board. The Board shall be composed of
five members of the City Economic Development Commission, its attorney, its
Executive Director, the Mayor, a member of the City Common Council with the
representative being appointed by the Council itself, and two representatives
selected from any of the following groups: local and community leaders,
business organizations, the financial community, citizens’ representatives and
governmental areas.
(Ord. 658, passed 1-16-1989)
   (B)   Each member of the City Economic Development Commission shall serve on
the Revolving Loan Fund Board upon the same terms and conditions under which
they each serve as Commissioners of the Economic Development Commission. The
Economic Development Commission Attorney shall serve at the discretion and
leisure of the Economic Development Commission and subject to the authorization
of the City Attorney. The Executive Director shall serve at the discretion and
leisure of the Mayor, but subject to the approval of the Economic Development
Commission.
   (C)   The two remaining members of the Revolving Loan Fund Board shall be
nominated and appointed by the Mayor. Each of the two Board members shall serve
a term of four years. In the event any person appointed as a Board member by
the Mayor shall fail to qualify within ten days after the mailing to him or her
of a notice of his or her appointment, or if any Board member appointed by the
Mayor after qualifying shall die, resign, vacate the office or be removed, a
new Board member shall be selected or nominated and appointed to fill the
vacancy in the same manner as the Board member in respect to which the vacancy
occurs, and the Board member so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the
vacated term. The Board member shall hold over after the expiration of their
terms until their respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Each Board member, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take
and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall elect one of its members as
President, one as Vice-President, and one as Secretary, each of which shall
serve from the day of his or her election until the December 31 next following
his or her election, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (F)   The Revolving Loan Fund Board shall adopt any by-laws, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings.
Regular or special meetings shall be held at a time as the Board shall
determine. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and concurrence
of the majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
   (G)   Any Board member may be removed from office for neglect of duty,
incompetency, disability to perform his or her duties, or other good cause, by
the officer or board which nominated him or her. A Board member so removed may
obtain judicial review of the removal by filing a complaint in the County
Circuit Court, but the burden of proof shall be upon the officer or board which
removed the board member. The cause shall be placed on the advance calendar and
be tried as other civil cases as tried by the Court without intervention of a
jury. An appeal from the judgment may be taken as in civil actions.
   (H)   Any member of the Revolving Loan Fund Board having a pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement, or any other contract made
under the Revolving Loan Fund Plan shall disclose the pecuniary interest before
any action is taken by the Board on it, and shall not vote on any matter of
this kind. In the event a Board member has a pecuniary interest in any
employment, financing agreement, or other contract and fails to disclose his or
her pecuniary interest and votes on the matter, then any transaction made in
which any Board member has a pecuniary interest shall be void ab initio.
(Ord. 588, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 31.09 NON-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION REVOLVING LOAN FUND BOARD.
   (A)   The Non-Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Board
shall be composed of the same members of the Economic Development
Administration Revolving Loan Fund Board, and the terms for this Board shall
coincide with the terms of the other Board. It is the intention of this section
to have the same people who compose the Economic Development Administration
Revolving Loan Fund Board to administer these funds in conformity with the
requirements of this section, but not be restricted in the administration of
the funds as restrictions which presently are imposed under the Economic
Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Board.
   (B)   Each member of the City Economic Development Commission shall serve on
the Board upon the same terms and conditions under which each of them now serve
as Commissioners of the Economic Development Commission. The attorney for the
Economic Development Commission shall serve at the discretion and leisure of
the Mayor, and subject to the authorization of the City Attorney. The Executive
Director of the Economic Development Commission shall serve at the discretion
and leisure of the Mayor, but subject to the approval of the Economic
Development Commission.
   (C)   The member to be first appointed to this Board by the Common Council
shall be the same representative of the Common Council who is now serving on
the Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Board. The two
remaining Board members of this Board shall be those appointed by the Mayor who
presently are on the Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund
Board. Each of the two Board members shall serve terms of four years each.
   (D)   In the event any person appointed as a Board member by the Mayor shall
fail to qualify within ten days after the mailing to him or her of a notice of
his or her appointment, or if any Board member appointed by the Mayor after
qualifying shall die, resign, vacate the office or be removed, a new Board
member shall be appointed to fill the vacancy by the same authority who
approved the renewed member, and the Board member so appointed shall serve for
the remainder of the vacated term. The Board members shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until their respective successors have been duly
appointed and qualified.
   (E)   Each Board member before entering upon his or her duties, shall take
and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   This Board shall elect one of its members as President, one as Vice-
President, and one as Secretary, each of which shall serve for one year, and
elections for these officer will be held at the first meeting in each calender
year.
   (G)   The Board shall adopt any by-laws, rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings. Special meetings
shall be held at a time as the Board shall determine. A majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum, and a concurrence of the majority shall be necessary
to authorize any action.
   (H)   Any Board member may be removed from office for neglect of duty,
incompetency, disability to perform his or her duties, or other good cause by
the officer or the Board, or by the appointing authority which appointed him or
her. A Board member so removed may obtain judicial review of the removal by
filing a complaint in the County Circuit Court, but the burden of proof shall
be upon the appointing authority which removed the Board member. The cause
shall be tried as other civil cases as tried by the court without the
intervention of a jury. An appeal from the judgment may be taken as in other
civil actions.
   (I)   Any member of this Board having a pecuniary interest in any
employment, financing agreement or any other contract made under any of the
loans which this Board may consider shall disclose the pecuniary interest
before any action is taken by the Board on it, and shall not vote on the
matter. In the event a Board member has a pecuniary interest in any employment,
financing agreement or other contract and fails to disclose the interest and
votes on the matter, then the transaction made in which any Board member has a
pecuniary interest shall be void ab initio.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-21-1990)
§ 31.10 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the city a Department of Planning and
Development, the members of which shall be the following: Mayor, Police Chief,
Fire Chief, Wastewater Department Superintendent, Street Commissioner, Electric
Department Superintendent, and Perry County Health Officer.
   (B)   The Department of Planning and Development shall have all of the
powers and duties of a Department of Planning and Development referenced in §§
151.45 through
151.51, and also those set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
(Ord. 944, passed 11-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1127, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 31.11 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   I.C. 8-1.5-5 addressing the matter of stormwater management is hereby
adopted, making that chapter and any and all amendments thereto effective and
operative as to the city.
   (B)   Pursuant to that chapter, a Department of Stormwater Management
(“Department”) shall be and is hereby created for the purpose of providing for
the collection, disposal, and drainage of storm and surface water and relieving
of sanitary sewers of such water in the special taxing district which is also
hereby created pursuant to that chapter. The Department shall have the
authority to exercise all powers provided by I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq.
   (C)   The Department of Stormwater Management of the city shall be
administered and governed by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   (D)   The territory initially included in the special taxing district shall
be and is all of the territory now and hereafter included within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (E)   The acquisition, construction, installation, operation and maintenance
of facilities and land for the stormwater system may be financed through the
proceeds of special taxing district bonds of the stormwater district; the
assumption of liability incurred to construct the stormwater system being
acquired; service rates; revenue bonds; or any other available funds. The
Board, after approval by the Common Council of the city, may assess and collect
user fees from all of the property of the stormwater district for the operation
and maintenance of the stormwater system.
(Ord. 975, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Rules and regulations of the City Police Department
   
32.02   Vacation schedule
   
32.03   Workmen’s compensation and residency
   
32.04   Policemen’s Pension Fund
   
32.05   Police Reserve Department
§ 32.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department should consist of a number of officers as the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall from time to time designate, but not
less than five. There shall be at all times one Chief of Police who shall be
designated and hold the rank of Captain, and one Assistant Chief of Police who
shall be designated as and hold the rank of Lieutenant. Each officer shall
secure and wear appropriate insignia as shall be designated by the Board of
Public Works and Safety. There are hereby further created the classifications
of Sergeant, Patrolman and Probationary Patrolman.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor from the
membership of the Police Department and shall be a member who has served his or
her probationary period of at least six months with the Police Department. The
Assistant Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor from the membership
of the Police Department.
   (C)   A probationary patrolman is a member of the Police Department who has
served less than one year. During this one-year period, the Probationary
Patrolman may be discharged from the Police Department with or without cause,
as determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety. If retained on the
Police Department beyond the one-year period, the probationary patrolman shall
become a full patrolman, as defined in division (D) below.
   (D)    A patrolman is a member of the Police Department who has fully
completed his or her probationary period and been retained on the Police
Department of the city. No patrolman, nor any other member of the Police
Department higher in rank, shall be discharged except for cause stated by
written complaint and after hearing before the Board of Public Works and
Safety, of which hearing the officer shall have at least ten days prior written
notice and at which hearing he or she shall have the right to appear in person,
confront the witnesses against him, present evidence in his or her own behalf
and be represented in person or by counsel.
   (E)   It shall be hereafter required that at least one member of the Police
Department each year attend a school in criminology, traffic safety or other
appropriate branch of police work conducted by the State Police or by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. The city shall appropriate annually a sum
estimated to be sufficient to pay the expenses of the officers, including
tuition and supplies, while in attendance at the school, and the salary of the
officer during the time of attendance at the school shall be paid as though the
officer was on active duty within the city. So far as possible, the officers
attending the schools shall be rotated so as to allow all officers and members
of the Police Department to attend training, except that due consideration be
given to those officers volunteering for the training and officers expressing
no desire to attend.
   (F)   Appointments to the Police Department shall be made on a non-political
basis, and members of the Police Department shall refrain from engaging in
partisan politics and shall not, while members of the Police Department, make
donations to any political party or accept office in any political party.
   (G)   The following are duties of the members of the Police Department:
      (1)   Chief of Police.
         (a)   The Chief shall establish duty hours of all police officers of
the city.
         (b)   He or she shall be on active duty a minimum of 48 hours per
week.
         (c)   He or she shall be subject to call 24 hours a day.
         (d)   He or she shall keep and maintain daily records of all arrests,
misdemeanors, accidents and the like, as reported by any police officer within
the boundaries of the city.
         (e)   He or she shall hold monthly briefings with all members of the
Police Department. The Mayor and President of City Council shall be notified of
the time and place and permitted to attend.
         (f)   He or she shall be responsible for cooperation with other city
police, county police, state police and federal officers.
         (g)   He or she shall keep and maintain complete operating costs of
Police Department equipment such as radios, cars, parking meters and the like.
         (h)   He or she shall be a representative of the Department of Police,
subject to approval or direction of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (i)   He or she shall establish the official uniforms for the
Department of Police, subject to the approval of the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
         (j)   He or she shall be in full uniform at all times while on duty.
      (2)   Assistant Chief of Police.
         (a)   The Assistant Chief shall be responsible for all duties of the
Chief of Police when the Chief of Police is unable to do so, subject to the
direction of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (b)   He or she shall be familiar with all records and duties of the
Chief of Police.
         (c)   He or she shall submit to the office of the Chief of Police all
information, data and reports as required by the Chief of Police, upon
completion of each day’s tour of duty (in writing).
         (d)   He or she shall conduct himself in a manner, at all times, that
will be a credit to himself and the City Department of Police.
         (e)   He or she shall keep himself physically fit at all times. A
physical examination must be passed every four years and complete reports
submitted by the secretary of the Board of Health to the City Board of Public
Works and Safety.
         (f)   All officers shall at all times strive to maintain high safety
standards for the city, through safety programs, using every agency available
to them.
      (3)   Sergeant.
         (a)   The Sergeant shall be subject at all times to the direction of
the Chief of Police or the Assistant Chief of Police, whoever is in charge.
         (b)   In the absence of the Chief of Police and the Assistant Chief of
Police, he or she shall assume, and be responsible for, all duties of Chief of
Police.
         (c)   He shall be qualified to administer tests legally recognized by
the state to determine blood alcohol content.
   (H)   The city shall furnish to each appointed officer of the Police
Department all uniforms and equipment as are prescribed for a member of the
Department. Equipment and uniforms shall be maintained by the members of the
Police Department, except that the city shall further pay in addition to any
and all basic salaries, the minimum sum of $50 per officer per year for
replacement and maintenance of uniforms and equipment, as budgeted by the Board
of Public Works and Safety. Any and all uniforms and equipment shall at all
times belong to the city and shall be turned in by each officer and accounted
for in the event of discharge or resignation from the City Police Department.
   (I)   The following are rules governing police officers in the city, and
apply to the Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police, Patrolmen and
Probationary Patrolmen:
      (1)   Officers shall be in proper uniform as prescribed by the Chief of
Police.
      (2)   Officers shall conduct him or herself in a proper manner at all
times, including off duty time or on duty time.
      (3)   Officers shall be entitled to one day off each working week,
subject to the approval of the Chief of Police as to which day.
      (4)   At the end of each day of duty, the officer being relieved shall
log all arrests, accidents, misdemeanors, miles driven and the like. This
information shall be filed in the office of the Chief of Police, in which the
Chief shall keep and maintain all records pertaining to any official action of
any Policeman or Deputy.
      (5)   The Chief of Police is required to attend State Police Department
schooling as soon as possible after appointment to the office. The expense of
this shall be borne by the city.
      (6)   Upon completion of training, the Chief of Police shall be required
to hold instructions for all officers of the City Police Department not less
than one time each year.
      (7)   All special orders to officers of the City Police Department must
be issued in writing to each and every officer, and posted for 30 days in the
Office of the Police Department.
   (J)   The following are requirements to be met by any and all new
applicants:
      (1)   He or she shall be in sound physical condition.
      (2)   He or she shall submit physical examination reports of a qualified
doctor.
      (3)   He or she shall not be under 21 nor over 35 years of age.
      (4)   His or her height shall be at least five feet eight inches.
      (5)   His or her weight shall be not less than 160 pounds.
   (K)   In the event of the resignation or termination of employment as a
member of the Police Department for any reason whatsoever, all privileges and
benefits of this chapter shall be deemed terminated, and at an end to the
effect that if the member later rejoins the City Police Department he or she
shall be deemed a probationary patrolman and shall be treated as though he or
she had never been a member of the Police Department for the purpose of basic
pay, all other allowances and qualifications for senior grade ranks.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 5-2-16)
§ 32.02 VACATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All personnel are entitled to a vacation after completion of one year
of service with the Police Department. After one year of service personnel are
entitled to an annual vacation, according to the following schedule.
Years of Service Completed Days of Vacation Time
Years of Service Completed Days of Vacation Time
1                          7
2                          8
3                          9
4                          10
5                          11
6                          12
7                          13
8-13                       14
14                         15
15                         16
16                         17
17                         18
18                         19
19                         20
20-24                      21
25                         28
 
   (B)   Only one person from each department shall take a vacation at a time.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall have the right to set the time of each
vacation period. The days of the vacation earned shall be based on the period
of time beginning with the date of employment, and in the case of an employee
who has more than one period of employment, the beginning date used will be the
last period of employment. There will be no accumulation of days of vacation,
and the days of vacation earned must be taken during the year earned.
(Ord. 721, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 32.03 WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION AND RESIDENCY.
   (A)   The city shall purchase and procure workmen's compensation insurance
to insure the members of the Police Department under the provisions of the
State Workmen's Compensation Act, and the provisions of the Act shall apply to
the members of the Police Department who are also members of the Policemen's
Pension Fund, and the premiums therefor shall be paid out of the funds of the
city.
(`81 Code, § 18-3)
   (B)   All members of the Police Department must maintain their residence
within 15 miles of the corporate boundaries of the city, and within the county,
and must also have adequate means of transportation into the city and maintain
telephone service either by land line to their residence or adequate cell phone
service.
(Ord. 580, passed 11-1-1982; Am. Ord. 1112, passed 9-6-16)
§ 32.04 POLICEMEN’S PENSION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Policemen's Pension Fund in the city, and a Board
of Trustees for the management of the Policemen's Pension Fund, all as provided
by Chapter 51 of the 1925 Acts of the State General Assembly, and all acts
supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof.
(`81 Code, §18-1)
§ 32.05 POLICE RESERVE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is a City Police Reserve Department, pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 19-1-17.5-1.
   (B)   The number of Police Reserve Officers shall be any number not in
excess of 50.
   (C)   All members of the Police Reserve Department shall be appointed by the
Mayor.
   (D)   The members of the Police Reserve Department shall have all the police
powers as provided for by the provisions of I.C. 19-1-17.5-1.
   (E)   No member of the Police Reserve Department shall be appointed until he
or she has completed the training and probationary period specified by the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (F)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall prepare and approve a
course of study for the Police Reserve Department, and rules and regulations
covering the operation and conduct of the Police Reserve Department. The rules
and regulations may, among other things, provide for rules relating to the
conduct of the Police Reserves, disciplinary provisions and all other matters
affecting the operation of the Police Reserve Department.
(`81 Code, § 18-4) (Ord. 505, passed 3-6-1978)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Fire Department personnel
   
33.02   Duties of the Chief
   
33.03   Rules of conduct and duties of firefighters
   
33.04   Disruption of Fire Department duties; destruction of Fire Department
equipment
§ 33.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The City Fire Department shall consist of a Chief Engineer, a First
and Second Assistant Engineer, and any fire engine, hook, ladder and hose
personnel as may, from time to time, be appointed by the Common Council.
   (B)   The Chief Engineer of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the
Mayor immediately after assuming the duties of his or her office for a term of
four years and until his or her successor is appointed and duly qualified. The
First and Second Assistant Engineers of shall be appointed by the Chief
Engineer from members of the Fire Department immediately after the Chief’s
appointment, which appointment shall be presented in writing under the hand of
the Chief Engineer to the Council at its next meeting for confirmation, and
they shall hold their respective offices during the term of the Chief Engineer.
(Ord. 144, passed 4-13-1915)
   (C)   The respective fire companies may choose or elect out of their own
number a captain and any other officers as they may see fit, and in a manner
and at times as they may think proper, and it shall be their duty to cause
their hose, hooks, ladders and other implements to be conveyed to the place
where any fire may happen, and to apply and use the same, agreeably to the
direction of the Chief or assistant Engineer, to their several places of
deposit and as soon thereafter, as may be, wash and cleanse the same, and they
are also required to exercise with the fire implements as the whenever the
Chief Engineer shall direct; and if any member shall willfully neglect to
perform any of the aforesaid duties, he or she shall forfeit and pay the sum of
$2, and if he or she shall neglect to attend at any fire or not perform his or
her duty upon the occasion of any fire, without reasonable excuse, he or she
forfeit and pay the sum of $2, or be expelled from the Fire Department by the
Common Council.
(Ord. 470, passed 2-10-1903)
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the secretary of each company to keep a
record, upon which he or she shall enter the name of each member, and date of
his or her election, his or her age and occupation; and they shall report in
writing to the Council the name of each person so elected, the date of his or
her election and his or her age and occupation. The Council shall then approve
or reject the persons as members of the companies, and it shall be the duty of
the City Clerk-Treasurer to notify the Secretary of the company of the approval
of rejection.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the secretary of each engine, hose and hook
and ladder company to furnish the Clerk-Treasurer a certified list if the names
of the members of their respective companies, on or before June 1 of each year,
and the Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon issue a certificate of membership to
each of the members, countersigned by the Chief Engineer, on demand, which
certificate shall entitle the holder to the exemptions and benefits set forth
in §
33.04(B).
   (F)   The Chief Engineer, each Assistant Engineer and each captain of a
company, after his or her election and confirmation, shall take and subscribe
to an oath or affirmation for the faithful discharge of the duties of his or
her office, and the Chief Engineer shall execute his or her official bond in
the penal sum of $500, payable to the city, conditioned for the honest and
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(`81 Code, § 10-1)
§ 33.02 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief Engineer shall have full power, control and command over all
persons whatever at any fire, and in his or her absence the Assistant Engineer
shall perform his or her duties; and he or she shall have power to require all
persons present and not attached to any fire company to work in the
extinguishment of the fire, or in aiding to save property from destruction or
injury, and to order bystanders, who are unemployed, to remove to a distance as
the Engineer or his or her assistants may prescribe, and any person who shall
refuse to obey any order or direction lawfully given by the Engineer or his or
her assistants shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief Engineer to direct, at all fires,
any measures as he or she shall deem advisable for the effectual extinguishment
of the fires. He or she shall in all cases of fire have the sole and absolute
control over all members of the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to report quarterly to the Common Council at its first regular meetings in
the months of March, June, September and December, in each year, the condition
and standing of each company, and the number of its members; also, the names of
members who have withdrawn from each company or have been expelled. He or she
shall also report the condition of all fire apparatus pertaining to the Fire
Department and the conditions of buildings in which the same is kept, and shall
recommend the alterations and improvements in the fire apparatus as he or she
may deem necessary. He or she shall cause annual reviews of the Fire Department
to be held each year and shall appoint a day for the review and give notice
thereof to the Mayor and members of the Council. On the day appointed for the
review, it shall be the duty of all persons belonging to the Fire Department to
appear at the place designated be the Chief Engineer, fully equipped with
uniform and apparatus, for the review. The Chief Engineer, whenever any fire
apparatus shall require to be repaired, shall cause the same to be done
immediately.
(‘81 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 144, passed 4-13-1915)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.03 RULES OF CONDUCT AND DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Every hose company and every hook and ladder company shall be
officered and governed according to rules and regulations as the organization
shall prescribe, subject to the approval and ratification of the Common
Council.
(Ord. 190, passed 12-26-1922)
   (B)   If any firefighter shall neglect to do his or her duty as firefighter,
or shall disobey or refuse to obey the orders of his of her superior officers,
or, if he or she shall leave while at a fire, without permission from the Chief
Engineer or officer in command, he or she shall for so doing be subject to
expulsion from the Fire Department. The Chief Engineer is hereby authorized,
and it is made his or her duty, to dismiss from any and every company connected
with the Fire Department all firefighters acting in violation of this section.
   (C)   No person shall be elected a member of any fire company unless he or
she is able bodied, has become a resident of the city, and is over 21 and under
45 years of age.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the captain of each company, after each fire,
to call and take a roll of its members and report the same within a reasonable
time to the Chief Engineer, who shall report and present the same to the Common
Council at its first regular meeting thereafter.
(`81 Code, § 10-1)
§ 33.04 DISRUPTION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES; DESTRUCTION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT
EQUIPMENT.
   Any citizen or other person who shall, during the time of any fire, hinder,
resist or refuse to obey the Chief Engineer or his or her assistants, while
acting in the discharge of his or her duty, or conduct him or herself in a
noisy or disorderly manner, or who shall willfully injure in any manner any
hose, fire engine or other apparatus or property belonging to the city, the
person shall for each offense, upon conviction, be fined.
(`81 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 470, passed 2-10-1903)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 34: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
34.02   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.03   Sewer Department Cash Reserve Fund
   
34.04   Water Department Cash Reserve Fund
   
34.05   Promotional Fund
   
34.06   Revolving Loan Fund
   
34.07   Non-Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Account
   
34.08   Port Fund
   
34.09   Change Fund
   
34.10   Designation of city depositories
   
34.11   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.12   River Boat Fund
   
34.13   Floodwall Certification Grant Fund
   
34.14   Pre-approved payment of claims
   
34.15   Way-Finding Signage Fund
   
34.16   Utility Cash Change Fund
   
34.17   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
34.18   William Tell Complex Fund
Cross-reference:
   Electric Department Cash Reserve Fund, see §
51.02
   Solid Waste Clean Up Fund, see §
55.29
   Vehicle inspection fee, see §
70.09
§ 34.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. The construction or improvement of any property
owned by the city, including, but not limited to, streets, thoroughfares and
sewers and the retirement of general obligation bonds of the city issued, and
the proceeds used for the purpose of constructing capital improvements. The
term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include salaries of any public officials or
employees, except those which are directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
   (B)   In accordance with the requirements of Section 8 of Chapter 225, Acts
of the 1965 General Assembly, there is hereby created a special fund to be
known as the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund, into which the cigarette
taxes allotted to the city by reason of Subsection C(1)(C) of Section 27C and
27D of the State Cigarette Tax Law, being Chapter 222 of the Acts of 1947, as
amended, shall be deposited. The Fund shall be a cumulative fund, and all of
the monies deposited into the Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for
capital improvements, as hereinafter defined, and none of the monies shall
revert to the General Fund or be used for any purposes other than capital
improvements.
(`81 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 397, passed 7-5-1965)
§ 34.02 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5-1 et seq., the City
Cumulative Capital Development Fund is hereby created.
   (B)   The City Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be funded as
follows:
      (1)   An ad valorem property tax levy is hereby imposed on all taxable
property within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The maximum ad valorem property tax levy which may be imposed
pursuant to division (B)(1) above shall be set by the Common Council.
      (3)   Any and all revenues generated through the ad valorem property tax
levy shall be retained in the City Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The Common Council shall have the authority to reduce or rescind the
ad valorem property tax levy referred to in division (B) above.
   (D)   Any and all funds retained in the City Cumulative Capital Development
Fund shall be used for the following:
      (1)   For the construction, maintenance and repair of bridges, approaches
and grate separations;
      (2)   To provide for the erection of levees, gates and pumping stations
or other similar facilities which are necessary for the addition or improvement
of levees;
      (3)   For flood prevention and control; for the improvement of drainage;
to provide for irrigation; for the providing of water (including treatment and
distribution for domestic, industrial and public use); and for the collection,
treatment and disposal of liquid waste;
      (4)   For the development of forests, wild life areas, parks and
recreation facilities, where feasible, in connection with beneficial water
management.
      (5)   For the prevention of injurious water erosion, and the storage of
water for augmentation of stream flow;
      (6)   For the operation, maintenance and improvement of any work or
improvement for water based recreation.
      (7)   To purchase, construct, equip and maintain buildings for municipal
purposes; and to acquire the land and any improvements thereon which are
necessary for the construction of municipal buildings.
      (8)   To demolish any improvement on any land where required for the
purpose of constructing municipal buildings;
      (9)   To acquire land or rights-of-way to be used as a public way or
other means of ingress or egress to land acquired for construction of a
municipal building.
      (10)   To improve or construct any public way or other means of ingress
or egress to land acquired for the construction of a municipal building.
      (11)   To acquire land or rights-of-way to be used for public ways or
sidewalks; to construct and maintain public ways or sidewalks; to acquire land
or rights-of-way for the construction of sanitary or storm sewers, or both; to
construct and maintain sanitary or storm sewers, or both; to acquire, by
purchase or lease, or to pay all or part of the purchase price of a utility; to
purchase or lease land, buildings or rights-of-way for use of any utility that
is acquired or operated by the municipality; to purchase or acquire land, with
or without buildings, for park or recreational purposes; to purchase, lease or
pay all or part of the purchase price of motor vehicles for the use of the
Police or Fire Department, or both, including ambulances and firefighting
vehicles with the necessary equipment ladders and hoses; to retire in whole or
in part any general obligation bonds of the municipality that were issued for
the purpose of acquiring or constructing improvements or any property described
herein; and to purchase or lease equipment and other non-consumable personal
property needed by the municipality for any public transportation use;
      (12)   For the planning, erection, remodeling, extension and repair of
sewage disposal plants and sewers to convey sanitary sewage to the plants; the
construction remodeling, repair and extension of storm sewers, relief sewers
and drains of the sanitary sewer system or storm sewers; and for the payment of
the city’s part of the costs of any public sewer or drainage project which:
         (a)   Lies partly or wholly within the corporate limits of the city,
or;
         (b)   Aids or is connected to the sewage collection or drainage system
of the city;
      (13)   For all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-6-1984)
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall
be used for any purpose for which property taxes may be imposed within the city
under the authority of I.C. 36-9-15.5-2, and the statutory citations listed
thereunder.
   (F)   Notwithstanding divisions (D) and (E) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in divisions (D) and (E) above if the purpose is to protect the
public health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this division only
after the Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or safety
is an immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund.
(Ord. 738, passed 7-7-1993; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 34.03 SEWER DEPARTMENT CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A Cash Reserve Fund shall be created for the City Sewer Department and
carried on the records of the same in accordance with the accounting procedures
established by the Commission or the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Contributions, loans, deposits, and all monies held in the
aforementioned Cash Reserve Fund shall be held, administered, transferred and
loaned in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-11.
(Ord. 634, passed 8-31-1987)
§ 34.04 WATER DEPARTMENT CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A Cash Reserve Fund shall be created for the City Water Department and
carried on the records of the same in accordance with the accounting procedures
established by the Commission or the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Contributions, loans, deposits and all monies held in the
aforementioned Cash Reserve Fund shall be held, administered, transferred and
loaned in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-11.
(Ord. 635, passed 8-31-1987)
§ 34.05 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   The City Promotional Fund is hereby established. The City Common
Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the
betterment of the city.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the city belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the municipality, including meeting room rental, decorations,
meals and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates or objects such as
commemorative keys; and/or
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Mayor to directly relate to
the promotion or betterment of the city.
   (C)   Claims for expenses under this section shall be allowed as prescribed
by law.
(Ord. 571, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 34.06 REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Revolving Loan Fund. The Revolving Loan
Fund shall be based upon and shall comply with the Revolving Loan Fund Plan, as
approved on April 4, 1984 by the United States Department of Commerce, Economic
Development Administration. The Revolving Loan Fund Plan is hereby adopted by
reference and made part of this section the same as if set forth in full
herein. Two copies of the Revolving Loan Fund Plan are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection during the regular business
hours of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   From and after the effective date hereof, and thereafter as amended,
there is hereby established a Revolving Loan Fund Account, which shall be
assigned account number 380 by the Clerk-Treasurer. All money received by the
city pertaining to the business of operating and managing the Revolving Loan
Fund shall be segregated from the other money received by the city not
pertaining to the business of operating and managing the Revolving Loan Fund,
and shall be deposited, invested and reinvested, as required from time to time,
in the name of the Revolving Loan Fund, bearing account number 380. Any money
deposited, invested and reinvested, shall be accomplished at all times in
observance of the terms and conditions of the Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
(Ord. 588, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 34.07 NON-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION REVOLVING LOAN FUND ACCOUNT.
   From and after the effective date hereof, and thereafter as amended, there
is hereby established a Non-Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan
Fund Account, which shall be assigned account number ___ by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The monies received from the city from grants from any state agency,
the proceeds of the sale of any promissory notes now payable to the city or
other eligible promissory notes in the future payable to the city, or the
proceeds of bonds issued under this section and I.C. 36-9-32 et seq. shall be
placed into this account, invested and reinvested, as required from time to
time, in the name of this account.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-21-1990)
§ 34.08 PORT FUND.
   (A)   The City Port Fund shall receive and disburse funds related to the
City Port.
   (B)   The Fund shall require local appropriation by the Common Council prior
to disbursement of funds.
   (C)   The Fund shall also be established as part of the Economic Development
Commission.
(Ord. 813, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 34.09 CHANGE FUND.
   The Cash Change Fund for the City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby established, and
the Clerk-Treasurer is further authorized to maintain $200 in cash in this fund
for the purpose of providing change to customers who pay various fees and
expenses in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 866, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 34.10 DESIGNATION OF CITY DEPOSITORIES.
   Old National Bank, Fifth Third Bank, German American and Hoosier Hills
Credit Union, are hereby approved and designated as depositories for funds of
the city, as all of these financial institutions have previously been approved
as depositories of state funds.
(Ord. 860, passed 3-5-2001; Am. Ord. 1148, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 34.11 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Established. A Rainy Day Fund is established to receive unused and
unencumbered funds raised by a general or special tax levy on taxable property
whenever the purpose of such tax levy has been fulfilled and unused and
unencumbered balances remain.
   (B)   Purpose. The funds deposited in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for the
operation of the city in its various departments when the city does not have
sufficient funds to pay such costs, including but not limited to, salaries and
wages, costs of services, equipment, capital improvements, repairs and similar
expenses.
   (C)   Transfer of funds. On or before December 31 of each year the Common
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the city's budget for that year.
   (D)   Appropriation. The Common Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the other funds that are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon
making a finding that the proposed use is consistent with the intent of the
fund.
(Ord. 886, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 34.12 RIVER BOAT FUND.
   (A)   A River Boat Fund is hereby established by Tell City for the city to
use as its share of the river boat revenues distributed in the year 2003.
   (B)   This fund shall be used by the city to carry out any governmental
purpose for which this fiscal body appropriates these monies.
(Ord. 903, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 34.13 FLOODWALL CERTIFICATION GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The city will receive federal grant funds in the amount of $225,000 to
allow for the securing of planning services and technical assistance relating
to the evaluation leading to the certification of the floodwall in Tell City,
Indiana; and
   (B)   The Common Council hereby establishes a non-reverting Floodwall
Certification Fund until all funds are depleted for their intended purpose and
use.
(Ord. 1042, passed 4-4-2011)
§ 34.14 PRE-APPROVED PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make payments for the
following kinds of expenses prior to the written approval of the Common
Council:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
Government, its agencies or political subdivisions.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   General grant program where advance funding is not prohibited, and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements.
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements.
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Claims with finance charges that will become due before the next
meeting of the Common Council.
      (14)   Refunds.
      (15)   Claims with discounts available if paid before the next Common
Council meeting.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill, and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Common Council shall review and ratify the claim at its next
meeting following the prepayment of the claim.
(Ord. 1041, passed 4-4-2011)
§ 34.15 WAY-FINDING SIGNAGE FUND.
   (A)   Established. The Common Council hereby establishes a Way-Finding
Signage Fund until all funds are depleted for their intended purpose and use.
   (B)   Purpose. The Development and Action Committee, established by the city
developed a project to design and create way-finding signage to direct citizens
and visitors to various businesses, not-for-profit organizations and historic
buildings in the downtown area.
   (C)   The Way-Finding Signage Fund shall be self-sustaining with the sale of
advertising space on each sign for the businesses to purchase advertising space
for the business name, however, not-for-profit organizations and historic
buildings will be permitted without cost.
   (D)   The city shall act as the fiscal agent for all deposits and
expenditures of non-appropriated funds received from the purchase of
advertising space on the signage for the establishment and maintenance of
future and existing signage.
   (E)   At this time this fund shall become dormant any remaining funds will
be declared dormant by the Common Council and be transferred to the city’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 34.16 UTILITY CASH CHANGE FUND.
   The Common Council ordains as follows:
   (A)   The cash change fund for the utility office of the city which is
hereby established is authorized to maintain $200, $100 from wastewater and
$100 from water, in cash for the sole purpose of making and supplying change
for the utility office’s cash drawers and/or for persons paying utility bills
or other related fees and charges at the office.
   (B)   A weekly audit will be performed and recorded with the date and
initials of the person conducting the audit and that office personnel shall
maintain an audit record.
(Ord. 1149, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 34.17 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new local grant fund within the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office that shall be titled “ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund,” that
the Clerk-Treasurer has issued a fund number of 176 with respect to these
monies, and that such monies shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The uses of this Fund are specified in § 603(c) of the ARPA and shall
be used in accordance with U.S. Treasury guidance, as amended:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible works of the
metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county that are
performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers
that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county prior to the
emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
      (5)   A metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government, or
county receiving a payment from funds made available under this section may
transfer funds to a private nonprofit organization (as that term is defined in
paragraph (17) of § 401 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. § 11360(17)), a public benefit corporation involved in the
transportation of passengers or cargo, or a special-purpose unit of state or
local government.
   (C)   The monies of the Fund shall be appropriated by the City Council (the
“Council”) before expenditure and all expenditures shall be approved by the
Council with any and all claims to be paid from the Fund.
   (D)   The Council will encourage public input in order to create the plan,
conditions, and rules (together, the “Plan”), upon which the monies are to be
requested and used.
   (E)   The Plan is attached to Ord. 1175 as “Exhibit A” and may be amended.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all monies deposited into and paid
from the Fund.
   (G)   Any unused monies of the Fund shall be paid back to the U.S. Treasury,
as required.
   (H)   Monies of the Fund shall not be deposited into any pension fund.
   (I)   The plan for the use of funds received by the city from the American
Rescue Plan and placed in the “ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund” is
hereby amended to provide that 100% of the $1,631,126.97 awarded to the city,
plus any interest accrued thereon, shall be designated as the Standard
Allowance of Revenue Loss and that said money may be used for general
government services subject to the restrictions of the final rule, as agreed to
by the Common Council of the city.
   (J)   All applications and requests for expenditures from the Fund shall be
submitted directly to the Common Council.
   (K)   The Common Council shall either approve the expenditure request, deny
said expenditure request, or seek further review or modification of said
expenditure request from the applicants.
(Ord. 1175, passed 5-3-2021; Am. Ord. 1185, passed 4-4-2022; Am. Ord. 1212,
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 34.18 WILLIAM TELL COMPLEX FUND.
   (A)   There shall be established a non-reverting fund known as the William
Tell Complex Fund.
   (B)   Any amounts located in said fund shall be dedicated to the payment of
utilities for, and the costs of maintenance and upkeep of, the real estate at
647 Main Street, including upgrades and infrastructure improvements to the real
estate, or as aid to the entities listed in I.C. 36-10-2-4 or I.C. 36-10-2-5.
   (C)   The William Tell Complex Fund shall not revert to the general fund,
and the Common Council of the city shall have control of the budgeting and
appropriation of funds from said account.
(Ord. 1184, passed 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Designation of Purchasing Agency
   
35.02   Leasing of city-owned property
   
35.03   Transfer of city-owned real estate
   
35.04   Payment of membership dues to organizations
   
35.05   Access to criminal records
   
35.06   Restricted access to public records under Common Council jurisdiction
   
35.07   Designation of non-smoking areas
   
35.08   Credit card use
   
35.09   Internal control standards
   
35.10   Electronic fund transfers
   35.11   Authorizing purchasing agents to make advance payments
§ 35.01 DESIGNATION OF PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The City Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby designated as the
Purchasing Agency for the city with all of the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22 et seq. The Purchasing Agency shall designate in writing the
Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agency may also designate in writing
additional purchasing agencies and agents necessary.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies for the city with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
   (C)   It is hereby determined that each agency and all of the departments of
the city may purchase services in whatever manner the purchaser determines to
be reasonable under the circumstances.
   (D)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases, and shall be purchased unless the city determines:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 814, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 35.02 LEASING OF CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL UNIT. Includes any city, town, county, township,
school corporation, special taxing district, municipal corporation, political
subdivision or agency of the state.
      PRIVATE PERSON. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A for-profit corporation organized under the laws of the state
or duly admitted to do business in the State of Indiana;
         (b)   A firm;
         (c)   A partnership;
         (d)   An association; or
         (e)   An individual.
(`81 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 557, passed 2-16-1981; Am. Ord. 761, passed 3-20-1995)
   (B)   The following is the procedure to be followed in the leasing of real
property owned by the city to private persons:
      (1)   Whenever the City Common Council shall deem or determine by
resolution that any real estate owned by the city is not then needed for
municipal purposes, and the city desires to offer the real estate for lease to
a private person, it may offer the real estate for lease in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this division (B).
      (2)   Prior to the offering of any real estate owned by the city for
lease to a private person, the Common Council shall cause two separate
appraisals of the rental value to be made by independent appraisers. In making
the appraisals, the appraisers shall take into consideration not only the size,
location and physical condition of the land, but also the advantages accruing
to the city and public from carrying out the lease and all factors having a
bearing on the value.
      (3)   The appraisals shall be solely for the information of the Common
Council, and shall not be open to inspection by the public.
      (4)   A notice shall be published, at least one time in a newspaper
published and of general circulation in the city, that at a designated time,
not less than ten days after the publication, the Common Council will open and
consider written offers from private persons for the lease of the real estate.
In giving the notice it shall not be necessary to specify the exact terms of
the lease, but the notice shall state the general location of the land and
attention shall be called generally to any limitations of the use to be made of
the real estate to be offered to private persons.
      (5)   At the time fixed in the notice, the Common Council shall proceed
to open and consider any offers received from private persons. All offers so
received shall be opened at a public meeting of the Common Council, and the
offers shall be open for public inspection. The Common Council shall have the
power to reject any and all bids and to make awards to the highest and best
bidder. After receipt of the offers, the Mayor or other designee of the Common
Council shall have the authority to negotiate with the successful bidder any
and all of the terms of the lease, including rent to be paid therefor and
payment of any and all expenses relating to the negotiation of the lease.
      (6)   In determining the best bid, the Common Council shall take into
consideration the character and purpose of the use proposed to be made by the
bidder, his or her plans and abilities to carry out the purposes for which he
or she proposes to use the real estate, the bidder's proposed rental offer, and
any factor which the Common Council shall determine will best serve the
interests of the community, both from the standpoint of human and economic
welfare.
      (7)   No lease shall be made at a rental price less than the average of
the aforementioned appraisals.
      (8)   The lease shall be executed in the name of the city or any
subdivision, agency or department thereof, and shall be signed by the Mayor and
attested by the Clerk-Treasurer or other signatory as authorized and directed
by the resolution herein before provided.
   (C)    The following is the procedure to be followed in the leasing of real
property owned by the city to local governmental units.
      (1)   Whenever the City Common Council shall deem or determine by
resolution that any real estate owned by the city may be used more efficiently
by enabling the city to contract with other local governmental units on a basis
of mutual advantage and thereby provide services and facilities in a manner
pursuant to forms of governmental organization that will accord best with
geographic, economic, population or other factors influencing the needs and
development of the city, and the city desires to offer the real estate for
lease to a local governmental unit or units, it may offer the real estate for
lease in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section.
      (2)   The provisions of an act entitled Local Governmental Units:
Contractual Agreements, hereinafter referred to as the Act, without limitation,
including I.C. 18-5-1.5-1 through and including I.C. 18-5-1.5-7, as the same
are in force and effect hereafter, and as the same are amended from time to
time hereafter, are incorporated herein by reference and made part of this
section the same as if set forth in full herein.
      (3)   In addition to, and not in limitation of, the provisions provided
for in the Act, the Common Council may, in the resolution provided for in
division (1) above, require any other necessary and proper matters which the
Common Council in its sole discretion deems advisable under the circumstances
to the extent that the necessary and proper matters further the purpose of the
leasing of the real estate, as set out in I.C. 18-5-1.5-1.
      (4)   All leases of real estate heretofore entered into by and between
the city and/or private persons or local governmental units, pursuant to Ord.
497, are hereby ratified and confirmed as lawful of the city and declared to be
of public benefit to the health, safety and general welfare of the city and its
citizens.
(`81 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 557, passed 2-16-1981)
§ 35.03 TRANSFER OF CITY-OWNED REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRACT. Any area of land that is under common ownership and is contained
within a continuous border as presently defined under I.C. 6-1.1-1-22.5 as
amended.
   (B)   On those occasions when the city attempts to sell certain real estate
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-11-4, as amended, and the disposing agent rejects all
bids or there are no bids submitted to the disposing agent for its
consideration, the city shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   Without any further public notice other than the ones required by
I.C. 36-1-11-4(c) and I.C. 36-1-11-4(e), the disposing agent shall conduct
negotiations and transfer of the real estate as follows:
         (a)   Without further appraisal or notice, the disposing agent shall
offer to negotiate for the sale of the real estate with all abutting landowners
whose identity and location can be determined through reasonable inquiry under
the same terms and conditions as the original published notices except for the
consideration to be paid.
         (b)   If more than one abutting landowner submits an offer to purchase
the tract, the other abutting landowners who submit offers shall be informed of
the highest bids received and be given an opportunity to submit additional
offers. The real estate shall be sold to the eligible abutting landowner who
submits the highest offer for the tract.
      (2)   If no eligible abutting landowner submits an offer to purchase the
tract, the disposing agent may transfer the tract to any person who submits the
highest offer for the tract except for a person who is ineligible to purchase
the tract under I.C. 36-1-11-16, as amended.
(Ord. 654, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 35.04 PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The City Common Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the city
and the elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality's
boards, councils, departments or agencies in local, regional, state and
national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which has
as their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Common Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate
funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the city belongs.
(Ord. 572, passed 7-19-1982)
§ 35.05 ACCESS TO CRIMINAL RECORDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CRIMINAL HISTORY DATA. Information collected by criminal justice agencies
or individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of
arrests, indictments, information or other formal criminal charges and any
disposition, including sentencing and correctional system intake, transfer and
release. CRIMINAL HISTORY DATA includes information obtained from a Federal
Department of Justice information system.
      CRIMINAL JUSTICE AGENCY. Any agency or department of any level of
government whose principal function is the apprehension, prosecution,
adjudication, incarceration, rehabilitation or post-conviction representation
of criminal offenders.
      DEPARTMENT. The State Police Department.
      DISPOSITION. Information disclosing that criminal proceedings have been
concluded or indefinitely postponed.
      INSPECTION. Visual perusal, and includes the right to make memoranda
abstracts of the information.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An agency or department of any level of
government whose principal function is the apprehension of criminal offenders.
      LIMITED CRIMINAL HISTORY. Information with respect to any arrest,
indictment, information or other formal criminal charge which must include a
disposition. However, information about any arrest, indictment, information or
other formal criminal charge which occurred less than one year before the date
of a request shall be considered a LIMITED CRIMINAL HISTORY even if no
disposition has been entered.
      RELEASE. The furnishing of a copy or edited copy of criminal history
data.
      REQUEST. The asking for release or inspection of a limited criminal
history by non-criminal justice organizations or individuals in a manner which:
         (a)   Reasonably insures the identification of the subject of the
inquiries; and
         (b)   Contains a statement of the purpose for which the information is
requested.
   (B)   On request, the City Police Department shall release or allow
inspection of a limited criminal history to non-criminal justice organizations
or individuals only if the subject of the request:
      (1)   Has applied for employment with a non-criminal justice organization
or individual;
      (2)   Has applied for a license in criminal history data as is required
by law to be provided in connection with the license;
      (3)   Is a candidate for public office or a public official;
      (4)   Is in the process of being apprehended by a law enforcement agency;
      (5)   Is placed under arrest for the alleged commission of a crime;
      (6)   Has charged that his or her rights have been abused repeatedly by
criminal justice agencies; or
      (7)   Is the subject of a judicial decision or determination with respect
to the setting of bond, plea bargaining, sentencing or probation.
   (C)   A non-criminal justice organization or individual which received a
limited criminal history may not utilize it for purposes:
      (1)   Other than those stated in the request; or
      (2)   Which deny the subject any civil right to which the subject is
entitled.
   (D)   On request for release or inspection of a limited criminal history,
the Police Department shall do the following:
      (1)   Require a form, provided by them, to be completed. This form shall
be maintained for a period of two years and shall be available to the record
subject upon request;
      (2)   Collect a $3 fee to defray the cost of processing a request for
inspection;
      (3)   Collect a $7 fee to defray the cost of processing a request for
release; and
      (4)   The Police Department shall edit information so that the only
information released or inspected is information which:
         (a)   Has been requested; and
         (b)   Is limited criminal history information.
   (E)   The Police Department shall, upon request and proper identification of
the person about whom criminal history data is maintained, provide that person
with a copy of the criminal history data for a fee of $7. The person may
challenge the information contained in that file.
   (F)   This section is not applicable to and does not prevent the release or
inspection of information contained in:
      (1)   Wanted person posters or announcements;
      (2)   An original record of entry, such as a police blotter, maintained
by a criminal justice agency;
      (3)   Published court or administrative opinions, or records of public,
judicial, administrative or legislative proceedings;
      (4)   Records of traffic offenses maintained by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles; or
      (5)   Announcements of pardon or executive clemency.
(Ord. 587, passed 7-18-1983)
§ 35.06 RESTRICTED ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS UNDER COMMON COUNCIL JURISDICTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-4(b), all public records, as set out in I.C. 5-14-3-
4(b), as amended, over which the Common Council has jurisdiction from
inspection, copying and disclosure are excepted from public disclosure.
(Ord. 710, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 35.07 DESIGNATION OF NON-SMOKING AREAS.
   (A)   Except for the rest room areas in each public building, all portions
of City Hall, the fire station at 711 Humbolt Street and the newly constructed
fire house at the intersection of 12th and Humbolt Streets, the sewage
treatment plant, the electric utility plant, the water plant and the Street
Department are hereby designated non-smoking areas.
(Ord. 731, passed 3-15-1991)
   (B)   The warehouse portion of the operations building of the City Electric
Department located at 5th and Fulton Streets in is hereby designated a smoking
area and the rest room portion of the building is hereby designated a non-
smoking area.
(Ord. 642, passed 4-4-1988)
   (C)   All portions of the police station are hereby designated non-smoking
areas, except for the kitchen area, which is hereby designated as a smoking
area.
   (D)   Only that portion of the first floor of the high rise building at 1648
10th Street in the city occupied by the Executive Director and the staff of the
City Housing Authority is hereby designated a non-smoking area.
   (E)   The community building of the City Housing Authority located at the
corner of 16th and Franklin Streets is hereby designated a non-smoking area.
   (F)   The executive offices of the City Housing Authority located in the
Spring Hill Apartments of the City Housing Authority located on Pestalozzi
Street is hereby designated a non-smoking area.
   (G)   The entire indoor area of the Schergens Center located at 1140 31st
Street is hereby designated a non-smoking area.
    (H)   The Board of Commissioners of the City Housing Authority shall cause
conspicuous signs that read Smoking is Prohibited by State Law Except in
Designated Smoking Areas to be posted in appropriate areas in each of the
aforementioned buildings of the City Housing Authority.
(Ord. 838, passed 11-1-1999)
   (I)   A violation of this section constitutes a Class C Infraction for which
a judgment may be entered and a fine imposed.
   (J)   The attorney representing the city shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney fees and reimbursement of all costs and expenses incurred in the
enforcement of this section.
   (K)   All of City Hall Park is hereby designated as a tobacco-free area,
including City Hall itself, the gazebo, and all other real estate within the
park.
   (L)   All of Hagedorn Park (tennis courts, baseball field, swimming pool,
men’s softball field, girls’ softball fields, Perry County Greenway and parking
lot), Dennis Kress Memorial Park (Little League park), Kiwanis Park (Babe Ruth
League park) and Roy Fenn Park (soccer fields) are hereby designated as
tobacco-free areas including the entirety of each park itself, all buildings
and structures on the grounds of each park, and all other real estate within
each park.
(`81 Code, § 18-2) (Am. Ord. 1011, passed 6-1-2009; Am. Ord. 1019, passed 9-8-
2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.08 CREDIT CARD USE.
   (A)   The city shall apply for and obtain a credit card account for the use
of city officials and employees authorized to use such credit card account
pursuant to the terms and conditions of this section. The application for such
credit card account shall be prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
executed by the Mayor and the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the credit card account and the receipt of the
credit cards for use with such account, the further issuance and use of such
credit cards, shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this section. The
compliance with the terms and conditions of this section by the users of such
credit card account shall be monitored by the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer of
the city, who shall report periodically to the Common Council of the city.
   (C)   A separate credit card for such credit card account shall be kept in
the custody and control of each of the following city officials and department
heads, to wit:
      (1)   Mayor's Office;
      (2)   Clerk-Treasurer's Office;
      (3)   Street Department;
      (4)   Police Department;
      (5)   The Records Coordinator and each police officer of the Police
Department;
      (6)   Greenwood Cemetery;
      (7)   Fire Department;
      (8)   Recreation Department;
      (9)   Water Department;
      (10)   Sewage Department;
      (11)   Building Inspector; and
      (12)   Zoning Inspector.
   (D)   The public official occupying each of the aforesaid positions, or the
department head of each of the aforesaid departments, as the case may be, shall
be responsible for the use of the credit card issued to such official office or
department, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this section.
   (E)   The credit cards which are the subject of this section may be used
only by officials and employees of the city for the purchases of items for use
in said official offices or departments, or for traveling expenses of city
employees.
   (F)   The use of such credit cards shall be strictly in accordance with the
following procedures:
      (1)   An accounting log shall be kept in each public office or department
in which a credit card is kept. The public official in the office or the
department head, as the case may be, shall be responsible for the physical
custody of the credit card, except when it is being used by another member of
that office or a city employee working from that office.
      (2)   The log shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name and position of the individual using the card; the date
of the usage of the card; the purpose for which the card is being used on each
date of its usage; an estimate of the amount of the proposed charge to be made
to the credit card; the fund or account which will be charged with the expense
incurred with the credit card; and
         (b)   A record of the date, purpose, amount, and vendor, for each
charge actually made to the card.
   (G)   The person making charges on the credit card shall provide the
department head or public official, as the case may be, with a copy of the
credit card receipt for each purchase made, when applicable.
   (H)   Each public official or department head in charge of a credit card
shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer on a monthly basis with a copy of the
accounting log and all supporting receipts and documents for the previous
month.
   (I)   The usage of credit cards by public officials or employees of the city
shall not be used to bypass or compromise the existing accounting system used
for the city. In accordance therewith, claim forms shall continue to be used
for all purchases made with the credit card, in the same manner that such claim
forms are presently used for other purchases made on behalf of the city.
   (J)   Payment of the credit card charges shall not be made solely on the
basis of a statement or credit card charge receipt, and payment shall only be
made when the proper procedures for payments following the city's existing
accounting procedure of properly itemized claim forms and attached
documentation. Supporting documentation of credit card charges shall include
paid bills and receipts.
   (K)   It shall be the responsibility of the public official or department
head, as the case may be, in charge of each credit card issued in the name of
the city to provide proper documentation to the Clerk-Treasurer of all charges
made on the credit card, in order that the Clerk-Treasurer, through normal city
procedures, can pay the credit card charge in a timely fashion to avoid paying
interest or penalty charges on the credit card.
   (L)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay any normal and customary fees
charged by the issuer of the credit card, from the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 928, passed 2-7-2005; Am. Ord. 962, passed 10-2-2006; Am. Ord. 1049,
passed 6-4-2012)
§ 35.09 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts a minimum level of internal control standards
and procedures policy attached hereto as Exhibit A prior to June 30, 2016, to
provide reasonable assurance the objectives of the city will be achieved.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all appropriate
personnel receive training concerning the internal control procedures adopted
and approved herein prior to December 31, 2016. Any new hire meeting the
criteria set forth of the definition of "appropriate personnel" will be trained
in a timely manner.
(Ord. 1105, passed 6-6-16)
§ 35.10 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Electronic fund transfers. The city/city utilities is hereby
authorized to use electronic fund transfers for official business of the city.
   (B)   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and responsible for:
      (1)   Selecting the financial institution(s) to be used by the city for
electronic fund transfers;
      (2)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected financial
institution(s) for the city;
      (3)   Overseeing the use of electronic fund transfers for official city
business of the city;
      (4)   Maintaining the agreement and the relationship between the city and
the financial institution(s);
      (5)   Establishing appropriate security procedures for passwords, codes,
controls, and other authorizations to protect and preserve the funds and assets
of the city;
      (6)   Reviewing all transactions and confirmation in connection with the
use of electronic fund transfers for property authorization, documentation,
itemization, and purpose.
   (C)   Administration of payments. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a
warrant for an electronic fund transfer unless:
      (1)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
      (2)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the city employee or
representative receiving the goods or services;
      (3)   The invoice or bill is filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   The City Clerk-Treasurer audits and certifies before payment that
the invoice or bill is true and correct; and
      (5)   Payment of the invoice or bill is allowed by the Board of Public
Works and Safety on the accounts payable register.
      (6)   All electronic fund transfers must be for official business of the
city and shall not be personal in nature.
   (D)   Scope of electronic fund transfers. Electronic fund transfers shall
include automated clearinghouse payments (ACH), wire transfers, direct deposit,
on-line banking transactions, telephone transfers, and other electronically
authorized or implemented transfers or payments.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the city shall comply
with all other requirements regarding the payment of claims by a political
subdivision.
(Res. 1153, passed 7-1-2019)
Cross reference:
   Sewer, trash and water departments; electronic funds transfer, see §
50.02
§ 35.11 AUTHORIZING PURCHASING AGENTS TO MAKE ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent of the city, as defined and set forth in § 35.01,
may allow advance payment for the purchase of goods and services either
directly or as part of a public works project consistent with and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, and as further limited by the purchasing agent
for the purchase.
   (B)   The solicitation for a public works contract providing for advance
payments for contractors to purchase materials for public works projects under
I.C. 5-11-10-1.6 must include the following information:
      (1)   That the city will make advance payments to contractors to enable
contractors to purchase materials;
      (2)   Any limitations on the amount of advance payments that will be
made;
      (3)   Requirements for documentation relating to making advance payments
to contractors for materials;
      (4)   Any other information about advance payment for materials the city
considers useful to contractors that make offers.
   (C)   The City Fiscal Officer or the City Fiscal Officer’s designee must do
all of the following when advance payments are made for goods or services prior
to delivery of goods or completion of service:
      (1)   Track prepayments by defining the prepayment on a purchase order;
      (2)   Create a prepayment invoice that is associated with the purchase
order; and
      (3)   Require insurance or a surety bond in the amount of the prepayment
if the amount of the prepayment is more than $150,000.
   (D)   Advance payments made under divisions (A) and (B) may not exceed the
lesser of the following:
      (1)   Fifty percent (50%) of the entire cost of the contract; or
      (2)   Two million dollars ($2,000,000).
   (E)   All other requirements for the payment of public works projects,
goods, and services by the city remain in effect and ordinances not directly
contradicted by the provisions of this section remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1209, passed 11-6-2023)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Reimbursement of city employees for travel expenses
   
36.02   Vacation and sick pay for employees of the Street Department, Water
Department and Sewer Department
   
36.03   Coverage of OASI for employees
   
36.04   Public Employees Retirement Fund
   
36.05   Payment of employees
   
36.06   Nepotism and conflicts of interest
   
36.07   Code of Ethics
   
36.08   Policies for travel and conference expenses
§ 36.01 REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY EMPLOYEES FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   Upon the proper application with the City Clerk Treasurer, all employees of
the city shall be reimbursed for all personal motor vehicle travel in which
they may engage fulfilling their duties as employees of the city at the
approved rate of the Internal Revenue Service of the United States.
(Ord. 865, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 36.02 VACATION AND SICK PAY FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE STREET DEPARTMENT, WATER
DEPARTMENT AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Each regular employee of the City Street Department, Water Department
and Sewer Department who has been employed full time for at least one year will
be eligible for the following vacation:
      (1)   For one year of service but less than three years, five days of
vacation; and
      (2)   For three years of service or more, ten days of vacation.
   (B)   Vacation pay for each regular employee of the City Street Department,
Water Department and Sewer Department shall be the base hourly rate times the
vacation hours worked per week.
      (1)   For Maintenance personnel, vacation pay shall be calculated at 40
hours multiplied by the base rate.
      (2)   For clerical personnel, vacation pay shall be calculated at 37.5
hours multiplied by the base rate.
   (C)   Vacation earned by each regular employee of the Street Department,
Water Department, and Sewer Department, but not taken, may not be carried over
to the next calendar year, and no compensation will be paid for unused earned
vacation. No two maintenance personnel can be on vacation at the same time. The
scheduling of vacation is to be determined by the seniority of the employees in
each department.
   (D)   Each regular employee of the Street Department, Water Department, and
Sewer Department is allowed three personal days each year.
(Ord. 560, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 36.03 COVERAGE OF OASI FOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby elects coverage under the Old Age and
Survivors Insurance, as provided by Chapter 313, Acts of 1951.
   (B)   All positions not covered by an existing retirement plan are hereby
designated as those which are to be covered.
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of Title II, Sec. 218
of the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereof, the agreement
entered into between the state agency with the approval of the Governor and the
Social Security Administrator is hereby adopted by reference and made part of
this section the same as if set forth in full herein, and shall be termed as an
agreement between this political subdivision and the state agency and shall
become a part of the agreement or modification of the agreement between the
state and the Social Security Administrator.
(`81 Code, § 2-15) (Ord. 302, passed 8-28-1951)
§ 36.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city elects to become a participant in the Public Employees'
Retirement Fund as established by the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340 and all acts
amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The city agrees to make the required contributions under the Public
Employees Retirement Fund Act, which is the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340, and all
acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, including specifically the
Acts of 1955, Chapter 329, commonly designated as The Indiana Public Employees
Social Security Integration and Supplemental Retirement Benefits Act.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund:
      (1)   Employees of the Sewer Department;
      (2)   Employees of the Water Department;
      (3)   Employees of the Street Department;
      (4)   Radio operators of the Police Department;
      (5)   Mayor; and
      (6)   Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
(`81 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 453, passed 8-7-1972)
§ 36.05 PAYMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All city officials elected or appointed and all employees of the city
should be paid all salary, wages, compensation and earnings due them for
services rendered them for the city on the 15th day and last day of each month,
and the City Clerk-Treasurer is now hereby authorized and directed to make
payments in the form and manner as provided herein.
(‘81 Code, § 2-17) (Ord. 261, passed 12-23-1941)
   (B)   The salaries of the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer shall be paid in 24
equal installments payable on the first and fifteenth days of each month, and
the salaries Common Council shall be paid in monthly installments payable on
the first day of each month. All salary amounts are to be determined by the
Common Council.
(`81 Code, § 2-18) (Ord. 522, passed 3-19-1979)
§ 36.06 NEPOTISM AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism and the employment with the city and in
contracting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 with those statutes being identified as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C.
36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the city shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter nepotism policy) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter contracting with a
unit by a relative policy) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The city nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements and provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect on July 1 is attached to Ord. 1051.
   (D)   The city contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
hereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July
1, 2012 is attached to Ord. 1051.
   (E)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more details are necessary.
   (F)   The city further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority and a majority
of the body and therefore without authority by the majority he or she will not
be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (H)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. If an elected or
appointed official of the city fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (J)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: (a) posting a copy of this section
in its entirety in at least one of the locations in the city where it posts
employer posters or other notices to its employees; (b) providing a copy of
this section to its employees and elected and appointed officials; (c)
providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or (d) any other
action or actions that would communicate the polices established by this
section to its employees and elected or appointed officials. Upon any of taking
these actions these policies are deemed implemented by the city.
   (K)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed to Ord. 1051.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the city for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 1051, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 36.07 CODE OF ETHICS.
   The city’s Code of Ethics as adopted by Ord. 1135, and as amended from time
to time is hereby incorporated by reference, and shall hereby apply as if laid
out here in full.
   (A)   Purpose. This Cods of Ethics establishes the ethical standards for
elected officials and employees of the City of Tell City, Indiana.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The City Council of the City of Tell City, Indiana, and any City
of Tell City Administrative Board (e.g. Planning Board, Zoning of Board of
Appeals), Commission, or body comprised of two or more effected or appointed
officials or employees.
      CODE. This Code of Ethics.
      ELECTED OR APPOINTED OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE. A paid or unpaid officer or
employee of the City of Tell City, Indiana, including, but not limited to, the
members of any municipal board.
      INTEREST. A direct or indirect financial or material benefit, but does
not include any benefit arising from the provision or receipt of any services
generally available to the residents or taxpayers of the City of Tell City or
an area of the City of Tell City, or a lawful class of such residents or
taxpayers. An elected or appointed official or employee is deemed to have an
interest in any private organization when he or she, his or her spouse, or a
member of his or her household, is an owner, partner, member, director,
officer, employee, or directly or indirectly owns or controls more than 25% of
the organization's outstanding capital.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Tell City, Indiana. The word "municipal" refers
to the City of Tell City.
      RELATIVE. A spouse, parent, step-parent, sibling, step-sibling, sibling's
spouse, child, step-child, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, or
household member of an elected official or employee, and individuals having any
of these relationships to the spouse of the officer or employee.
   (C)   Applicability. This Code of Ethics applies to the elected and
appointed officials and employees of the City of Tell City, Indiana. The
provisions of this Code of Ethics shall apply In addition to all applicable
stats and local laws relating to conflicts of interest and ethics and all
rules, regulations, policies and procedures of the City of Tell City.
   (D)   Board of Ethics.
      (1)   The City Council shall establish a Board of Ethics for the City of
Tell City. The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members, a majority of
whom shall not be officers or employees of the City of Tell City, but at least
one of whom must be an elected official or employee of the City of Tell City,
The members of such Board of Ethics shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Tell City Common Council to serve at the pleasure of the City
Council, and receive no salary or compensation for their services as members of
the Board of Ethics.
      (2)   The Board of Ethics shall render advisory opinions to the officers
and employees of the City of Tell City with respect to this code. Such advisory
opinions must be rendered pursuant to the written request of any such officer
or employee under such rules and regulations as the Board of Ethics may
prescribe. The Board of Ethics shall have the advice of legal counsel by the
City of Tell City legal counsel. The Board of Ethics may make recommendations
with respect to the amendments to the Code of Ethics upon the request of the
City Council.
   (E)   Prohibition on use of municipal position for personal or private gain.
Elected or appointed officials or employees shall not use his or her municipal
position or official powers and duties to secure a financial or material
benefit for himself or herself, a relative, or any private organization in
which he or she is deemed to have an interest.
   (F)   Conflicts of interest: disclosure; recusal and abstention.
      (1)   An elected or appointed officials or employee may not participate
in any decision or vote if the elected or appointed official or employee has
knowledge that any of the following has a financial Interest in the outcome of
the matter:
         (a)   The official or employee.
         (b)   A member of the immediate family of the official or employee.
         (c)   A business organization in which the official or employee is
serving as an officer, a director, a trustee, a partner, or an employee.
         (d)   Any person or organization with whom the official or employee is
negotiating or has an arrangement concerning prospective employment.
      (2)   The official or employee shall disclose any such conflicts when the
matter requiring disclosure first comes before the official or employee, or
when the official or employee first acquires knowledge of the interest
requiring disclosure, whichever is earlier.
      (3)   In the case of a person serving in an elective office, the
disclosure shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Tell City, in
all other cases, the disclosure shall be filed with the person's supervisor or,
if the person does not have a supervisor, the disclosure shall be filed with
the elected official, employee or board having the power to appoint to the
person's position. In addition, in the case of a person serving on a municipal
board, a copy of the disclosure shall be filed with the board. Any disclosure
made to a board shall be made publicly at a meeting of the board and must be
included in the minutes of the meeting.
      (4)   In the event that this section prohibits an official or employee
from exercising or performing a power or duty:
         (a)   If the power or duty is vested in an official as a member of a
board, then the power or duty shall be exercised or performed by the other
members of the board; or
         (b)   If the power or duty that is vested in an official individually,
then the power or duty shall be exercised or performed by his or her deputy or,
if the officer does not have a deputy, the power or duty shall be performed by
another person to whom the officer may lawfully delegate the function.
         (c)   If the power or duty is vested in a municipal employee, he or
she must refer the matter to his or her immediate supervisor, and the immediate
supervisor shall designate another person to exercise or perform the power or
duty.
   (G)   Prohibition inapplicable; disclosure, recusal and abstention not
required.
      (1)   This code's prohibition on use of a municipal position(see division
(E)), disclosure requirements and requirements relating to recusal and
abstention (see division (F)), shall not apply with respect to the following
matters:
         (a)   Adoption of the City of Tell City annual budget;
         (b)   Any matter requiring the exercise of discretion that directly
affects any of the following groups of people or a lawful class of such groups:
            1.   All elected or appointed officials or employees;
            2.   All residents or taxpayers of the City of Tell City or an area
of the City of Tell City on; or
            3.   The general public;
         (c)   Any matter that does not require the exercise of discretion;
      (2)   Recusal and abstention shall not be required with respect to any
matter:
         (a)   Which comes before a board when a majority of the board's total
membership would otherwise be prohibited from acting by division (F) of this
section;
         (b)   Which comes before an elected official when the officer would be
prohibited from acting by division (F) of this code and the matter cannot be
lawfully delegated to another person.
   (H)   Investments in conflict with official duties.
      (1)   Elected or appointed officials or employees may not acquire the
following investments:
         (a)   Investments that can bs reasonably expected to require frequent
recusal and abstention under division (F) of this section; or
         (b)   Investments that would otherwise impair the person's
independence of judgment in the exercise or performance of his or her official
powers and duties.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit an elected or appointed official or
employee from acquiring any other investments or the following assets;
         (a)   Real property located within the City of Tell City;
         (b)   Less than 10% of the stock of a publicly traded corporation; or
         (c)   Bonds or notes issued by the City of Tell City and acquired mor
than one year after the date on which the bonds or notes were originally
issued.
   (I)   Private employment In conflict with official duties. An elected or
appointed official or employee, term in office or term of employment, may not
engage in any private employment when the employment:
      (1)   Can be reasonably expected to require frequent recusal an
abstention pursuant to division (F) of this section;
      (2)   Can be reasonably expected to require disclosure or use of
confidential information gained by reason of serving as an official or
employee; or
      (3)   Requires representation of a person or organization other than the
City of Tell City in connection with litigation, negotiations or any other
matter to which the City of Tell City is a party.
   (J)   Future employment.
      (1)   Elected or appointed officials or employees may not ask for, pursue
or accept a private post-government employment opportunity with any person or
organization that has a matter requiring the exercise of discretion pending
before the official or employee, either individually or as a member of a board,
while the matter is pending or within the 30 days following final disposition
of the matter.
      (2)   No elected or appointed official or employee, for a period of 12
months after serving as an official or employee, may represent or render
services to a private person or organization in connection with any particular
transaction in which he or she personally and substantially participated while
serving as an official or employee.
   (K)   Personal representations and claims permitted. This code shall not be
construed as prohibiting an elected or appointed official or employee from:
      (1)   Representing himself or herself, or his or her spouse or minor
children before the City of Tell City; or
      (2)   Asserting a claim against the City of Tell City on his or her own
behalf, or on behalf of his or her spouse or minor children.
   (L)   Use of municipal resources.
      (1)   An elected or appointed official shall not make use of municipal
materials, funds, property, personnel, facilities or equipment for any purpose
other than for official municipal business unless the use is expressly
permitted by a general written municipal policy or regulation.
      (2)   An elected or appointed official or employee shall not cause the
City of Tell City to spend more than is reasonably necessary for
transportation, meals or lodging in connection with official travel.
   (M)   Interests in contracts.
      (1)   Subject to division (2), no elected or appointed official or
employee shall knowingly have a financial interest in a contract made by the
City of Tell City.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (1) does not apply to:
         (a)   An official or employee who does not participate in or have
official responsibility for any of the activities for approving contracting
agency, if:
            1.   The contract is made after public notice or, where applicable,
through competitive bidding;
            2.   The official or employee flies with the contracting municipal
board a statement making full disclosure of all related financial interests in
the contract; and
            3.   The contract can be performed without compromising the
performance of the official duties and responsibilities of the elected official
or employee; or
         (b)   An official or employee who, acting in good faith, learns of an
actual or prospective violation of the prohibition in division (A), if, not
later than 30 days after learning of the actual or prospective violation, the
official or employee:
            1.   Makes a full written disclosure of any financial interests to
contracting municipal board; and
            2.   Terminates or disposes of the financial interest.
   (N)   Nepotism. The nepotism policy of the City of Tell City is set forth in
§
36.06.
   (O)   Political solicitations.
      (1)   An elected or appointed official or employee shall not engage in
political activity including solicitation of political contributions from:
         (a)   Another employee or official; or
         (b)   Any other person; when on duty or acting in an official
capacity.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit an elected or appointed official or
employee from engaging in such activity when not on duty.
      (3)   A elected or appointed official or employee shall not solicit
political contributions at any time from:
         (a)   Persons whom the official or employee knows to have a business
relationship with the official's or employee's office; or
         (b)   Employees directly supervised by the official or employee.
   (P)   Confidential information. An elected or appointed official or employee
shall not divulge information of a confidential nature except as permitted by
law.
   (Q)   Gifts.
      (1)   No elected or appointed official or employee may directly or
indirectly solicit any gift.
      (2)   No elected official or employee may accept or receive any gift, or
multiple gifts from the same donor, having an annual aggregate value of $100 or
more when;
         (a)   The gift reasonably appears to be intended to influence the
official or employee in the exercise or performance of his or her official
powers or duties;
         (b)   The gift could reasonably be expected to influence the official
or employee in the exercise or performance of his or her official powers or
duties; or
         (c)   The gift is intended as a reward for any official action on the
part of the official or employee.
      (3)   This section does not prohibit any other gift, including:
         (a)   Gifts made to the City of Tell City.
         (b)   Gifts from a person with a family or personal relationship with
the official or employee when the circumstances make it clear that the personal
relationship, rather than the recipient's status as an elected official or
employee, is the primary motivating factor for the gift;
         (c)   Gifts given on special occasions, such as marriage, illness, or
retirement, which are reasonable and customary;
         (d)   Unsolicited advertising or promotional material of little
intrinsic value, such as pens, pencils, note pads, and calendars;
         (e)   Awards and plaques having a value of $75 or less which are
publicly presented in recognition of service as an official or employee, or
other service to the community; or
         (f)   Meals and refreshments provided when an official or employee is
a speaker or participant at a job-related professional or educational
conference or program and the meals and refreshments are made available to all
participants.
   (R)   Affirmative responsibility to report. Any elected or appointed
official or employee of the City of Tell City who has reasonable suspicion that
another elected or appointed official or employee is violating this Code of
Ethics or any applicable Federal, state or local law, shall report the
suspected conduct to the Board of Ethics of the suspected violation, and if
such suspected violation is also a violation of any Federal, state or local
law, shall also report the suspected violation to appropriate law enforcement
officials.
   (S)   Posting and distribution.
      (1)   A copy of this code, and a copy of any amendment to this code,
shall bo posted publicly and conspicuously in each building under the City of
Tell City control. An amendment to the code must be posted within ten days
following the date on which the amendment takes effect.
      (2)   A copy of this code including any amendments to the code, shall be
distributed to every person who is or becomes an officer and employee of the
City of Tell City, Indiana.
      (3)   Every elected official or employee who receives a copy of this code
or an amendment to the code must acknowledge such receipt in writing. Such
acknowledgments must be filed Clerk of the City of Tell City, Indiana, who must
maintain such acknowledgments as a public record.
      (4)   The failure to post this code or an amendment to the code does not
affect either the applicability or enforceability of the code or the amendment.
The failure of an elected official or employee to receive a copy of this Code
of Ethics or an amendment to the code, or to acknowledge receipt thereof in
writing, does not affect either the applicability or enforceability of the code
or amendment to the code.
   (T)   Enforcement. Any elected or appointed official or employee who
violates this code may be reprimanded, fined, suspended or removed from office
or employment in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 1135, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 36.08 POLICIES FOR TRAVEL AND CONFERENCE EXPENSES.
   (A)   Mileage. Mileage for use of a personal vehicle will be reimbursed at
the Federal Standard Mileage Rate in effect at the time the travel expense was
incurred. Attendees are encouraged to use a city-owned vehicle if available in
lieu of receiving a mileage allowance. In addition; attendees are encouraged to
carpool if more than one attendee is attending the same function, and mileage
reimbursement will be allowable only to the attendee providing the personal
vehicle.
   (B)   Registration fees. Registration fees may be paid in advance of the
respective meeting or conference upon submission of a claim and proper
documentation (i.e., registration form, agenda, meeting notice, etc.) to the
Clerk-Treasurer. In most cases, registration fees are to be paid from budgeted
funds, unless otherwise stipulated by the state agency or organization
coordinating the conference. Certifications received after returning from city
business should be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer to be attached to the
appropriate travel claim.
   (C)   Meal subsistence. Meal subsistence will be provided up to a maximum of
$60 per day, except in the event of certain state statute which supersede this
section. The attendee must submit actual itemized meal receipts after returning
from city business to be entitled to reimbursement. Credit card receipts that
are not itemized which show only the total meal amount are not acceptable.
Gratuities or tips will be reimbursed at a rate not to exceed 15% of the meal
costs. Also, the purchase of snacks and soft drinks between meals is not a
reimbursable expense.
   (D)   Lodging. Lodging expenses will be allowed in an amount equal to the
conference rate for lodging or, if no conference rate is applicable, then at a
rate not to exceed the normal room rate at the conference facility or nearest
accommodations. No lodging allowances will be paid by the city for attendance
at meetings, training sessions or conferences that last only one day or less
and that are 45 miles or less from City Hall. Most hotels will recognize and
accept the sales tax exemption certificate in order that Tell City, as a
governmental unit, does not pay sales tax. Upon an attendee's making hotel
reservations, the attendee shall inquire as to the hotel's policy on accepting
tax exempt certificates to save the city the expense of paying sales tax. The
attendee shall submit a receipt to the Clerk-Treasurer's office from the hotel
or other meeting place where such accommodation was provided.
   (E)   Parking fees. Attendees shall be entitled to reimbursement equal to
the cost of the parking when required or necessary at the conference facility.
The attendee shall submit parking receipts upon return from travel.
   (F)   Toll fees. Attendees shall be entitled to reimbursement equal to the
cost of the toll fee when required to attend a conference. The attendee shall
submit toll fee receipts either upon return from travel or when received in the
mail.
   (G)   Long distance phone calls. Allowance will be provided only for long-
distance calls made from the conference facility and/or hotel for the purpose
of handling city business.
   (H)   Air travel. Allowance will be provided only if the cost of airline
tickets and rental vehicles is less costly than the traditional means of
travel, and/or in the event of air travel being advantageous due to time
constraints and the urgency of the situation.
   (I)   Documentation of travel claims. All travel expenses, except mileage,
for which attendees are requesting payment and/or reimbursement, must be
submitted on a state-prescribed city claim form and supported by substantial
documentation, including registration forms or meeting agendas giving the date,
purpose, and registration fee amount. Actual itemized receipts are necessary
for all other expenditures such as lodging, meals, and parking. Attendees must
submit completed travel expense claims for all individual expenses within 30
days after travel. Travel expenses for which an attendee seeks reimbursement
must have been budgeted by the City Council. Expenses not budgeted may not be
reimbursed, except for state-called meetings in which the expenses are to be
paid from funds not appropriated as dictated by state statute.
   (J)   Non-allowable travel charges. Certain travel expenses shall not be
reimbursed by the city, and therefore, if incurred, shall be the responsibility
of the attendee. Non-allowable travel charges include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Out-of-state travel, unless prior approval is granted by the Board
of Public Works and Safety;
      (2)   Hotel in-room charges, such as movies, bars, concessions, etc.;
      (3)   Personal entertainment or travel related thereto;
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Personal phone charges;
      (6)   Valet services, unless valet service is the only option available;
      (7)   In-city meal expenses prior to, or upon return from, travel;
      (8)   Snacks and drinks purchased between meals;
      (9)   Travel expenses for an accompanying spouse or non-city employee
guest of the attendee;
      (10)   Traffic fines for parking, speeding, etc.; and
      (11)   Meals more than $60 per day.
      (12)   Travel expenses incurred that are not otherwise addressed within
this section will be reviewed for approval at the discretion of the Board of
Public Works.
   (K)   Specific state statutes relating to travel expenses. It is recognized
that certain state statutes govern the amounts of allowable travel
reimbursements, and such state statutes shall supersede this section. Such
statutes include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   I.C. 5-11-14, regarding the State Board of Accounts called
conferences for all elected positions within the City of Tell City. All
payments, except registration fees, shall be paid from the city general fund
from funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (L)   Annual review of travel policy. This section may be reviewed annually
by the Tell City Board of Public Works and Safety and Tell City Common Council
with consideration being given to any changes in Indiana statute and the State
of Indiana's then existing travel policy and procedures.
   (M)   Abuse of travel policy. Abuse of this travel policy ordinance,
including falsifying expense reports to reflect costs not incurred by the
employee, can be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment.
(Ord. 1205, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 37: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
37.01   Ordinance Violations Bureau established
   
37.02   Violations Clerk
   
37.03   Civil penalties
§ 37.01 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created an City Ordinance Violations Bureau pursuant to I.C.
33-6-3-1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 671, passed 1-1-1990)
§ 37.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed and shall serve as the
Violations Clerk, who shall administer the Bureau.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and
payment of civil penalties in the amount of the violation.
(Ord. 671, passed 1-1-1990)
§ 37.03 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The schedule of penalties for violations of this code is hereby adopted by
reference and made part of this section the same as if set forth in full
herein. Copies of the schedule are on file with the Violations Clerk.
CHAPTER 38: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Title; purpose
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Publication of signals
   
38.04   Air raid rules and regulations
   
38.05   Coordination with county officials; adoption of State Defense Council
recommendation
Blackout Procedures
   
38.15   Prohibited illumination during blackout
   
38.16   Traffic regulations during blackout
   
38.17   Imitation of signals prohibited
   
38.18   Disturbances during blackout prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
38.30   Other ordinances, laws and regulations
   
38.31   Liability
   
38.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Air Raid Ordinance, and its provisions
shall be liberally construed in order to accomplish its purpose and to put into
effect in the city a system and method of precaution from enemy air attack,
described in the 1941 publications of the United States Office of Civilian
Defense entitled Blackouts and Air Raid Warning System, and any publication of
the Office of Civilian Defense supplementing those publications.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR RAID PERIOD. That interval of time between the sounding of a public air
raid warning signal and the sounding of a public all clear signal;
   AIR RAID WARDEN. Any person officially appointed and designated as the same
by the Chief of Police, subject to the approval of the Mayor, and while wearing
the official Air Raid Warden insignia or uniform. The term AIR RAID WARDEN
shall also mean and comprehend any Deputy Air Raid Warden officially appointed
by the appointing authority of the city. The air raid wardens shall serve
without pay and shall not be considered employees of the city.
   AIR RAID WARNING. A public signal indicating the danger of immediate air
attack, which shall consist of the display of lights with a hooded red lens at
the point or points designated by the Chief of Police, provided that the red
light or lights are not so displayed as to be visible from operating aircraft
and shall conform with all military regulations. The signal may be sounded by
the use of a siren and shall consist of the sounding of five distinct blasts of
15 seconds each to be repeated at four-minute intervals, utilizing a siren or a
steam whistle. However, it is provided that it shall be the duty of the Chief
of Police, with the consent of the Mayor, to adopt regulations specifying the
type of warning herein specified that shall be utilized in this city.
   ALL CLEAR. The public signal indicating that immediate danger of an air
attack has passed, which shall consist of the display of a light behind a
hooded white or clear lens at points designated by the Chief of Police,
provided that the hooded lights are not so displayed as to be visible to
operating aircraft, and provided further that the display of the lights shall
conform to all military regulations. The ALL CLEAR signal shall also consist of
the sounding of a short emission from a siren of not exceeding 45 seconds in
length, repeated at intervals of not less than four minutes; or may consist of
the sounding of a steam whistle for the same length of time at the same
intervals. However, it is further provided that it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police, with the consent of the Mayor, to adopt regulations specifying
the type of warning herein specified that shall be utilized in this city.
   AUXILIARY FIREMAN. Any person officially appointed and designated as the
same by the authority which has the power to appoint and control the regular
members of the City Fire Department, and while wearing the official auxiliary
fireman insignia or uniform. The auxiliary fireman shall serve without pay and
shall not be considered employees of the city.
   AUXILIARY POLICEMAN. Any person officially appointed and designated as the
same by the same authority which has the power to appoint and control the
regular members of the City Police Department, and while wearing the official
auxiliary policeman insignia or uniform. The auxiliary policemen shall serve
without pay and shall not be considered employees of the city.
   BLACKOUT. That interval of night time occurring within a period designated
by an order of the Chief of Police;
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of Police of Tell City, Indiana.
   EMERGENCY. That period of time between any proclamation by the Mayor that an
emergency exists, and the proclamation that the emergency has ceased to exist.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of Tell City, Indiana.
   PERSON. Includes every individual, person, co-partnership, corporation,
company, association, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
§ 38.03 PUBLICATION OF SIGNALS.
   The air raid warning and all clear public signals referred to in §
38.02 shall be deemed to have been described and proclaimed when a copy of the
description and proclamation has been published once by posting copies of the
description and proclamation in three places in each of the wards of the city.
A copy of the proclamation shall be filed at the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer
and in the Office of the Chief of Police.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
§ 38.04 AIR RAID RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the approval of the Mayor, is hereby
authorized, directed and empowered to prepare and promulgate any rules and
regulations and revisions and amendments thereof, as may in his or her
discretion be necessary for the conduct of persons during air raid periods.
   (A)   The rules and regulations shall be published once by the posting of
the rules and regulations in three public places in each ward of the city, and
shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. the day they are so published. A copy of
the rules and regulations shall be filed at the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer
and at the office of the Chief of Police. The rules and regulations shall
include rules and regulations governing traffic movements of emergency and
other vehicles and persons, evacuation of persons, congregation of persons on
the public streets and sidewalks and in public places or buildings, but this
enumeration shall not be taken as a limitation on the power to promulgate
orders, rules and regulations governing any other subject, persons or property
which must be regulated in order to insure the proper execution of any duly
authorized blackout or air protection measure.
   (B)   Practice blackouts and practice air raid drills may be carried out at
times and for purposes as the Chief of Police, with the approval of the Mayor,
shall deem appropriate and necessary, and subject, always, to the orders of the
Army and Navy, and in conformity with all military regulations and the
provisions of this chapter, and any rule or regulation adopted as authorized
herein.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, subject to the approval of the Mayor, may create,
form, control and conduct any auxiliary police force, and the auxiliary
policemen shall be appointed by the same authority which now has the power to
appoint and control regular members of the Police Department, to the end that
the provision of this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to
this section may be administered.
   (D)   All persons appointed pursuant to this chapter, shall serve without
compensation and shall not be considered employees of the city, and may be
dismissed from service by the appointing authority without any hearing
whatsoever.
   (E)   The failure of any person to obey the lawful order of any peace
officer, fireman, auxiliary fireman, auxiliary policeman, air raid warden or
member of the Indiana State Guard, given in order to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be a violation thereof.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.05 COORDINATION WITH COUNTY OFFICIALS; ADOPTION OF STATE DEFENSE COUNCIL
RECOMMENDATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and of the Mayor to confer with,
and when possible, to act in concert with the County Director of the Civilian
Defense Council and with the County Sheriff to the end that all methods of
precaution against enemy air attack and all blackouts in the city and the
county may be uniformly executed. It is enacted that the public policy of the
city shall be to adopt the recommendation of the State Defense Council. The
insignia adopted by the Office of Civilian Defense are hereby adopted as the
official insignia to be utilized by the emergency and auxiliary forces or
services serving this city under the provisions of this chapter or any
regulations adopted hereunder.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
BLACKOUT PROCEDURES
§ 38.15 PROHIBITED ILLUMINATION DURING BLACKOUT.
   (A)   During a blackout it shall be unlawful, except as otherwise specified
under the rules and regulations adopted as provided in §
38.04, for any person:
      (1)   To cause, display, operate, maintain or permit any lights whatever,
except within an opaque enclosed structure;
      (2)   To cause, maintain or permit any reflection or leakage of light
from any structure;
      (3)   To fail to prevent the display, operation, maintenance, reflection
or leakage of light from premises occupied, supervised or controlled by the
person.
   (B)   For the duration of any emergency it shall be unlawful to display the
following types of illumination:
      (1)   Any decorative street lighting;
      (2)   Illuminated house numbers, except when under the immediate manual
control of some responsible person over the age of 18 years;
      (3)   Any type of exterior flood lighting that projects lights upward;
      (4)   All billboard lighting or exterior building lighting, including
outline lighting, unless the light or lighting is at all times under the
immediate manual control of some responsible person over the age of 18 years;
      (5)   All exterior illuminated signs, all interior illuminated signs
visible from the exterior, all show window or other interior lights visible
from the exterior, whether in a private home, commercial establishment or any
other structure, which are not at all times under the immediate manual control
of some responsible person over the age of 18 years;
      (6)   No person shall leave a light on or burning in or upon any
structure during the daytime, which during the night time will not be under the
immediate manual control of some responsible person over the age of 18 years;
   (C)   It is further provided that additional restrictions may be placed on
lights and illuminations by rule or regulation adopted and published, as
provided in division (A) above.
   (D)   Any light displayed contrary to the provision of this section, or any
violation of the rules and regulations proclaimed, as provided in division (A)
above, constitutes a public nuisance, and the same may be summarily abated by
any fireman, auxiliary fireman, auxiliary policeman, peace officer, member of
the State Guard or air raid warden. Any house, store, building, other structure
or premises may be entered by any fireman, auxiliary fireman, peace officer,
auxiliary policeman, officer or member of the State Guard or an air raid
warden, using reasonable force, if necessary, for the purpose of abating the
nuisance by the extinguishment or obscuration of the lights. Any entry made for
the purpose of abating, extinguishing or obscuring the nuisance must be
reported by the person making the entry to the Chief of Police, or to any
person designated by the Chief of Police for the purpose, within a reasonable
time, but in no case later than 24 hours after the entry.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.16 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS DURING BLACKOUT.
   (A)   From the time any official air raid signal is given, continuously
until the official all clear signal is given thereafter, only the following
types of traffic shall be permitted to move:
      (1)   Vehicles of the Armed Forces of the United States of America;
      (2)   Ambulances, police and fire vehicles, and vehicles being then
officially used by the several branches of the Civilian Defense Administration,
including air raid wardens, demolition squads and bomb removal squads actually
in emergency service, and vehicles controlled or operated by the Unites States
Post Office when actually in use in transporting or on route to transport
United States mail;
      (3)   Vehicles actually in emergency service for the repair or control of
public utility equipment, whether privately or publicly owned;
      (4)   Vehicles under the actual control of officers or enlisted men of
the State Guard and actually in official or emergency services, or actually on
route to reporting for official or emergency duties; and/or
      (5)   Any other vehicles as may be permitted to move on special order of
the Chief of Police or military authorities.
   (B)   (1)   Vehicles described in divisions (A)(1) and (2) above shall be
deemed emergency vehicles, and as emergency vehicles shall have general right-
of-way over all other traffic, except that ambulances, police and fire vehicles
shall have the right-of-way over other emergency vehicles.
      (2)   All vehicles in emergency use not already visibly marked as the
same shall be lettered on the front, sides, and back with the letter E painted
in white to a height of not less than one foot.
   (C)   Operators of all other vehicular traffic shall:
      (1)   Immediately draw to the side of the road or street and stop in a
manner and in a place so as not to obstruct the reasonable use of the road or
street, or any intersecting road or street, fire hydrant or police or fire
station driveway or other emergency driveway. During the period of the air raid
alarm, parking regulations pertaining to lights, time limits, loading zones,
distances from intersections and parking in prohibited zones shall be suspended
except insofar as their violation may constitute a violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Extinguish all lights;
      (3)   Lock the ignition of the vehicle, but shall not in any case lock
the doors of the vehicle;
      (4)   Set the hand brake of the vehicle; and/or
      (5)   In the case of horse drawn vehicles, immediately halter the horse
or horses thereof firmly and securely to a fixed object if one is available,
and if none is available, to the vehicle itself, after unhitching the horses.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall operate to limit the authority
of any police officer, fireman, auxiliary fireman, auxiliary policeman, air
raid warden, or other duly authorized office to prescribe the place and manner
of the parking or storage of the vehicle or vehicles, in which event operators
of vehicles shall immediately comply with the lawful directions of the officer
or officers.
   (E)   During blackouts, no person, firm or corporation shall operate any
vehicle upon the public streets or highways which is not equipped with lights
so shielded as to prevent the lights or the reflection thereof from being
visible at an altitude as may be prescribed by the United States Army.
   (F)   Operators of vehicles moving during blackouts shall observe the
following rules and regulations:
      (1)   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 miles per hour, nor in a manner so as to endanger the life, limb or
property of any person.
      (2)   Operators shall obey and conform to all officially placed traffic
signs, signals and markings, whether the same be of a permanent, emergency or
temporary nature.
      (3)   Where special routes have been officially established, operators
shall conform to the route designations both as to direction and type of
vehicle.
      (4)   Where speeds of less than 20 miles per hour are designated by
official signs or markers or by direction of a police officer or other
authorized officer, operators shall not drive vehicles in excess of the lowered
speeds.
      (5)   No operator of a vehicle shall drive to the left of the center line
of the roadway except in cases where the right hand side of the roadway is
impassable, and then only in a manner so as not to endanger other traffic then
and there lawfully upon the roadway.
      (6)   No operator of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle proceeding in
the same direction and shall not drive within a distance of 50 feet from the
vehicle immediately ahead proceeding in the same direction, except in cases
where the pavement is of sufficient width to accommodate more than a single
lane of travel in the same direction and where the operator of the following
vehicle is in another lane than that in which he or she is overtaking.
      (7)   Any operator of a vehicle may elect to operate at a speed of less
than 15 miles per hour, but when operating his or her vehicle at the reduced
speed he or she shall, upon signal from the vehicle which may be immediately
following, turn over to the extreme right-hand side of the roadway, stop, and
allow the vehicle following to pass on his or her left.
      (8)   No operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle around on any
roadway so as to proceed in the direction from whence he or she came.
      (9)   During blackouts no person afoot shall cross or attempt to cross
any roadway at any place other than an established crosswalk, except in
compliance with the direction of an official sign or marking, or under the
direction of a police officer or other authorized officer.
      (10)   At all established cross-walks where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or other authorized officer, or by official signs or signals,
all pedestrians shall come to a stop before entering upon the street or
roadway; and shall obey the directions of the officer, sign or signal.
      (11)   At all established cross walks where traffic is not controlled by
a police or other authorized officer, or by any official sign or signal,
pedestrians shall come to a stop before entering upon the street or roadway.
      (12)   In all cases where pedestrian overhead crossings or tunnels have
been provided, pedestrians shall use the overhead crossings or tunnels instead
of crossing on the pavements.
      (13)   No domestic animals shall be allowed to roam or graze upon the
right-of-way of any public street or highways during blackouts, and it shall be
the responsibility of the person in whose custody and control the animals are
in to remove the domestic animals and to so confine them that they may not
return to the public highway for the period of the blackout.
      (14)   Divisions (1), (2), (3), and (4) above shall apply to the
operators of vehicles moving upon fixed rails upon any public street or
roadway.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed so as to regulate
traffic upon the public streets and roadways at times other than during air
raids and blackouts. Under all other conditions, laws and ordinances now in
effect or hereinafter enacted shall remain in force and be effective. During
the period of air raids and blackouts, all matters with reference to the
control and regulation of traffic which are not specifically legislated upon
herein shall be governed by other prevailing laws and ordinances which may
hereafter be effective.
   (H)   The fact that specific rules and regulations with reference to the
operation of vehicles are prescribed in this chapter shall not operate as a
limitation on the power of the Chief of Police, with the approval of the Mayor,
to prescribe additional rules and regulations with regard to operation of
vehicles from time to time as may be necessary, and the violation of any
additional rules and regulations shall be deemed to be a violation of this
chapter.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a fireman, auxiliary
fireman, peace officer, auxiliary policeman, air raid warden, member of the
State Guard or member of the armed forces of the United States, when acting
under orders of a superior officer, to control or attempt to control traffic on
the city streets, or to in any way molest or interfere with any other person
during an air raid or blackout period.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.17 IMITATION OF SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren, bell, whistle or other
device so as to simulate a blackout signal or air raid, or the termination of a
blackout or air raid, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and
shall be subject to fine.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.18 DISTURBANCES DURING BLACKOUT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, directly cause to be created
or to assist in creating any unnecessary or confusing noises, or to create any
disturbances or in any other manner create a state of confusion during a
blackout or air raid attack or period.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 38.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.30 OTHER ORDINANCES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede
all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state
or federal statute, or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
§ 38.31 LIABILITY.
   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health and safety, and neither the city,
the agents, officers or representatives of the city, or any air raid warden,
auxiliary fireman, auxiliary policeman, or any peace officer or any member of
the State Guard, or other authorized volunteer, or any individual, receiver,
firm, partnership, corporation, association, trustee, or any of the agents in
good faith carrying out, complying with, or attempting to comply with this
chapter, or with any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provision of this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to person or
property as the result of the activity.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or any order, rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine.
(`81 Code, § 9-1)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
      
52.   WATERWORKS
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
      
55.   REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Partial payment of utility bills
   
50.02   Electronic funds transfer
   
50.03   Water and sewer utility deposits
§ 50.01 PARTIAL PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   The Water Department, Trash Department, Sewage Department and their
appropriate personnel are hereby authorized and directed to bill customers for
their water, trash and sewage fees on one monthly billing. If any customer does
not pay all three bills in full on any one month’s payment, the departments are
directed to apply the partial payment as follows:
      (1)   First, to the outstanding water bill;
      (2)   Second, to the outstanding trash bill; and
      (3)   Third, to the outstanding sewage bill.
   (B)   If the customer is delinquent in the payment of these bills, the
delinquent payment by the customer should be applied as follows:
      (1)   First, to the outstanding bills up to 90 days in arrears;
      (2)   Second, to the outstanding bills up to 60 days in arrears; and
      (3)   Third, to the outstanding bills up to 30 days in arrears.
   (C)   With any partial payments by the customer, the respective departments
are authorized and directed to enforce collection of these fees pursuant to the
terms of the outstanding regulations and ordinances already in effect as to the
respective charges.
(Ord. 791, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 50.02 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby approves, adopts and authorizes the Board of
Public Works and Safety for the Sewer Department and the Trash Department, and
the Water Board for the Water Department, through authorization agreements for
preauthorized payments with their customers, to transact the department’s
business concerning public funds with the financial institution through the use
of electronic funds transfer, in accordance with I.C. 5-13 et seq.
   (B)   The authorization herein is limited to the following types of
transactions: receipt of customer payments for sewer utility bills, trash
utility bills, and water utility bills which are submitted under authorized
rates and charges.
   (C)   The Sewer Department, Trash Department and Water Department shall
maintain adequate documentation of all electronic funds transfer in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 845, passed 5-1-2000)
Cross reference:
   Electronic fund transfers, see §
35.10
§ 50.03 WATER AND SEWER UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Required deposits. The billing office of the Water and Sanitary Sewage
Utilities shall collect a deposit from all water and/or sewerage customers or
from the owner of the real estate at which such service is provided. The
deposit amount shall be $50.
   (B)   Refund of deposit. Utility deposits shall be credited to the regular
bill after 12 months of timely payments. If the deposit has not been refunded,
the deposit will be applied to the final utility bill. If the deposit has been
refunded due to timely payment and the customer moves to a different location,
no deposit will be charged at the new location. The credit or refund is issued
to the person who made the original deposit.
   (C)   Application for service. All new or moving water and/or sewer
customers applying for water and/or sewer service shall do so at the billing
office for the utilities located in City Hall and shall complete an
"Application for Utilities Service" and shall comply with all deposit
requirements as specified herein, all before any utility service will be
rendered. If a dwelling or building is owned or occupied by more than one
person, all owners are required to sign the deposit agreement. All owners or
occupants shall be jointly and severally liable for the service charges.
   (D)   Application and/or return of deposit. At the conclusion of the
customer's utility service received from the city, or upon a delinquency in the
charges therefore being incurred by the customer, all deposits shall be applied
to the customer's account, and the balance, if any, refunded to the customer.
   (E)   Connection fee. All water utility customers shall be required to pay a
re-connection fee at the re-connection of water service in the event the same
has been disconnected for non-payment of bill in the following amount: $30 for
re-connections. All re-connection fees shall be paid prior to the water service
being re-connected.
(Ord. 1151, passed 2-4-2019)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Protection of Electric Department equipment
   
51.02   Electric Department Cash Reserve Fund
   
51.03   Blanket bond
Terms and Conditions for Electric Service
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Tariff availability
   
51.17   Application, service request or contract
   
51.18   New home construction
   
51.19   Service deposit
   
51.20   Tap-in fee
   
51.21   Security for development
   
51.22   Services to be furnished
   
51.23   Character of service
   
51.24   Predication of rates
   
51.25   Rate schedule selection
   
51.26   Service extensions or changes in service requested by the customer
   
51.27   TCED equipment on the customer’s premises
   
51.28   Customer’s installation
   
51.29   Rendering and payment of bills
   
51.30   Budget payment plan
   
51.31   Customer’s request to discontinue service
   
51.32   TCED’s right to refuse or discontinue service
   
51.33   Meter accuracy; adjustment
   
51.34   Interruptions and variations in service characteristics
   
51.35   Non-permanent service
   
51.36   Service charges
   
51.37   Customer’s use of service; resale and redistribution
   
51.38   Auxiliary service and supplemental service
   
51.39   Purchase of energy from a qualifying facility
   
51.40   Unusual facility requirements
   
51.41   Security for payment of services
   
51.42   Dissemination of customer information
   
51.43   Net metering program
Electric Service Rates
   
51.55   Adoption of rate schedules by reference
Telecommunications Services
   
51.70   Telecommunications services
Internet Service
   
51.80   Internet service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PROTECTION OF ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises within
the city to permit or allow any tree or branch thereof, growing upon his or her
premises, or along the street, alley or sidewalk adjoining his or her premises,
to rest against or come in contact with any electric light wire, globe, light
or transformer belonging to the city, or in any way interfere with the wires,
globes, lights or transformers.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Electric Light Plant
to examine all electric light wires, globes, lights and transformers within and
belonging to the city, and ascertain if any tree of branch thereof is in any
way interfering or may interfere with the wires, globes, lights or
transformers. The Superintendent or the employees of the city working under him
or her shall have the right to enter upon any premises within the city and cut
away any part of any tree or trees that are interfering or may interfere with
any wires, globes, lights or transformers.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to meddle or interfere
with any of the electric lights, wires or transformers of the city without
authority to do so.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hitch or fasten any horse or
animal to any post forming a part of the city’s lighting system.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined.
(‘81 Code, § 21-1) (Ord. 136, passed 2-23-1916)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.02 ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to Chapter 153 of the 1949 Acts of the State General
Assembly, as amended by Chapter 235 of the 1961 Acts of the State General
Assembly, there is a Cash Reserve Fund for the City Electric Department.
   (B)   A sum shall be transferred from the funds of the City Electric
Department annually to the Cash Reserve Fund.
(`81 Code, § 21-2) (Ord. 359, passed 3-13-1962)
§ 51.03 BLANKET BOND.
   (A)   The City Electric Department, acting by and through its Board of
Directors, is allowed to file a blanket bond to cover the faithful performance
of all employees, including all appointed board members, commission members or
fiscal officers responsible for approving vouchers or payments.
   (B)   The Superintendent is hereby authorized to sign any documents which
may be necessary for the issuance and filing of the blanket bond.
(Ord. 672, passed 1-15-1990)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT or APPLICATION. A contract or service request for the supply of
electric service.
   AUXILIARY SERVICE. Service supplied for a part of the customer's load
requirements, the wiring for which is entirely separate and apart from the
wiring to the remainder of the customer's electric requirements when the latter
are furnished by the customer's privately-owned generating equipment.
   BILLING PERIOD. The interval between two consecutive meter readings that are
taken for billing purposes. The readings will be taken, as nearly as
practicable, every 30 days. All rate schedules are on the basis of charges per
month unless otherwise specifically stated in the rate schedule.
   BREAKDOWN, RESERVE or STANDBY CAPACITY. Service available for the customer's
load requirements in whole, or in part, in the event of:
      (1)   Use requirements in excess of contracted amounts;
      (2)   Use requirements due to temporary failure of the customer's normal
source of electric generation, if the service is from an electricity supplier
other than TCED;
      (3)   Use requirements of a temporary nature where a contractual
obligation does not exist; or
      (4)   Use requirements under a special standby tariff or standby
contract.
   COINCIDENT PEAK LOAD (COINCIDENT PEAK DEMAND). The maximum integrated use of
power during a specified time interval, as provided in the rate schedule,
expressed in KW or KVA, measured during the specific interval of time when the
TCED system is also at maximum load.
   CUSTOMER. The individual, partnership, corporation or other entity in whose
name service is rendered at a single premises.
   DELIVERY POINT. The point of the physical connection between TCED's and the
customer's facilities, beyond which point the customer receives and assumes
responsibility and liability for the service rendered. The DELIVERY POINT may
be one of the following:
      (1)   For overhead residential service, which is the standard service
offered by TCED, the DELIVERY POINT is the weatherhead located on the
customer's service mast. The customer is required to furnish the meter base and
the service mast.
      (2)   For underground residential service (meter on the house), the
DELIVERY POINT is TCED's pole, transformer, underground pedestal or hand-hole.
The customer is responsible for extending underground service to the meter base
and is required to own and maintain the underground service. TCED will provide
the underground cable in lieu of a credit for unused overhead service or will
provide a credit for a 65-foot length overhead service. The customer is
responsible for furnishing the meter base.
      (3)   For underground residential service (curb side metering), the
DELIVERY POINT is the integral meter base and breaker cabinet. The integral
meter base and breaker cabinet will be furnished by TCED in lieu of a credit
for a standard overhead service. The customer must extend, own and maintain the
underground service to the house.
   DELIVERY VOLTAGE. The voltage of TCED's facilities at the delivery point.
   DEMAND. The rate at which electric energy is delivered to the customers by a
system at a given instant, or averaged over a designated period, and usually
expressed in kilowatts or megawatts. The demand rate applicable to a particular
rate schedule is set forth in the rate schedule.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. Any electric line of TCED.
   ENERGY. As commonly used in the electric utility industry, ENERGY refers to
kilowatthours, as opposed to DEMAND, which refers to kilowatts.
   HORSEPOWER. A unit of delivered power typically used to rate the nominal
size of a motor and the load or demand which the motor imposes on an electric
supply system. The horsepower rating of a motor can be converted into
kilowatts. One horsepower equals 0.746 KW.
   KVA. Kilovolt-amperes. Unit of electric power representing rate of
consumption, and equivalent to one kilowatt at 100% power factor.
   KW. Kilowatt(s). A measure of electric power equal to one thousand watts.
   KWH. Kilowatt-hour(s). A measure of electricity consumption equivalent to
the use of one thousand watts of power over a one-hour period.
   MAXIMUM LOAD (MINIMUM DEMAND). The maximum integrated rate of use of energy
during a specified time interval as provided in the rate schedule, and
expressed in KW or KVA.
   METER. The complete installation of equipment needed to measure the maximum
load and/or energy supplied to the customer.
   OVERHEAD SERVICE. Service delivered from those parts of TCED's distribution
system which are constructed on and supported primarily by wooden poles.
   POWER FACTOR. The ratio of real power (KW) to apparent power (KVA) for any
given load and time.
   PREMISES. A distinct portion of real estate on which is located the living
quarters for the use of a single family, or the main building or main operation
of a commercial or industrial customer and which may include the immediate
outlying or adjacent buildings used by the same customer, provided the
character or use of service in the immediate outlying or adjacent buildings is
supplemental and is similar to the type of service furnished in the main
residence, main building or main operation.
   RATE SCHEDULE. A part of the tariff which sets forth the availability and
charges for service supplied to a particular group of customers with common
usage characteristics.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. An individual residence including mobile homes
and trailers, or a room or combination of rooms with facilities for private
living for a single family.
   RIDER. A part of the tariff setting forth supplemental provisions applicable
to specific rate schedules.
   SERVICE. Specifically includes the supply of electric energy delivered by
TCED to the customer, but may also include the provision of other services such
as street lighting, dawn to dusk lights, equipment rental, or other ancillary
services provided under approved tariffs or under specific contracts with the
customer.
   SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICE. Service which is normally supplied from the company's
facilities in addition to service supplied by the customer's privately owned
generating equipment or from another source of supply which is not TCED.
   TARIFF. The entire body of rate schedules, riders, and general terms and
conditions for electric service.
   TCED. Tell City Electric Department.
   TRANSMISSION SYSTEM. Any electric line of TCED operated at a voltage above
13,800 volts.
   UNDERGROUND SERVICE. Service provided by those parts of TCED's distribution
system which are constructed for and are installed beneath the surface of the
ground, or which are installed in vaults, conduits, buildings and the like.
   VA. Volt-amperes.
   W. Watts. The electrical unit of power or rate of doing work; the rate of
energy transfer equivalent to one ampere flowing under a pressure of one volt
at unity power factor.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.16 TARIFF AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   A copy of the tariff is on file with the Clerk-Treasurer, and is also
available at the TCED business office.
   (B)   The tariff has been approved by the Common Council, and the Common
Council has continuing jurisdiction over the tariff in its entirety. The
tariff, or any part thereof, may be revised, amended, or otherwise changed from
time to time, and any changes, when approved by the Common Council, will
supersede the present tariff.
   (C)   This subchapter sets forth the conditions under which service is to be
rendered, and govern all classes of service to the extent applicable. In case
of conflict between any provision of a rate schedule and/or rider and this
subchapter, the provisions of the rate schedule and/or rider shall prevail.
   (D)   TCED shall have the right to enter into contracts for service or
implement experimental programs under any rate schedule or rider, including
programs establishing rates and charges based on market or average prices,
price caps, index based prices, and prices that:
      (1)   Use performance based rewards or penalties, either related to or
unrelated to TCED's return or property; and
      (2)   Are designed to promote efficiency in the rendering of retail
energy services. TCED also shall have the right to enter into other contracts
for service which may contain provisions not included in the tariff subject to
the approval of the Utility Service Board.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.17 APPLICATION, SERVICE REQUEST OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   An application in the form of TCED's service request or a contract,
and a service deposit as provided for in §
51.19, may be required by TCED before service will be provided.
   (B)   TCED shall have the right to reject any application for service made
by or for the benefit of a former customer who is indebted to TCED for the same
class of service previously supplied at any premises in TCED's service area, or
for any other valid or legal reason.
   (C)   Certain rate schedules specify a term of contract. In the absence of
the requirement in any rate schedule, TCED may require a term of contract
commensurate with the size of the customer's load which TCED is obligated to
serve and/or TCED's cost of making service available to the customer.
   (D)   Subject to §
51.16(B) and (D), no agent or employee of TCED has the authority to amend,
modify, alter or waive any part of the tariff.
   (E)   In written contracts, no promises, agreements or representations of an
agent or an employee of TCED shall be binding unless the promises, agreements
or representations were incorporated in the contract before its execution and
approval.
   (F)   The benefits and obligations under any service request or contract
shall inure to and be binding upon the successors and assigns, survivors and
executors or administrators, as the case may be, of the original parties
thereto; provided, however, that no assignment shall be made by the customer
without first obtaining TCED's written consent. TCED may require the successor
either to execute with TCED an assignment agreement wherein the successor
customer assumes and agrees to be bound by the original contract, or to execute
a new contract for service.
   (G)   All deposits, contracts, performance or payment security, credit
arrangements and the like are location-specific and may not be transferred or
applied to service at another location.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.18 NEW HOME CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   For new residential electric customers who have made a proper request,
TCED will provide the necessary extension of electric facilities in accordance
with the tap-in fee and development policies of TCED. In these instances, the
customer may be billed the difference between the installation costs and the
estimated revenue in accordance with the tap-in fee and development policies.
   (B)   For new electric service, the customer shall furnish the meter base
and socket, and the conduit and installation, except that in certain
circumstances TCED may elect to require curb side metering, in which case TCED
will furnish the meter base and a circuit breaker. The meter base, conduit
riser, and other portions of the installation must be installed according to
the City Building Code regulations. The customer will be instructed as to the
requirements when applying for service. Requirements shall include, but not be
limited to, the location of service, minimum service height, character of
service, limit on capacity or other pertinent requirements.
   (C)   All required building inspections must be made before TCED will
install permanent meters. After certification of the builder and builder's
electrician TCED may, at its sole option, provide temporary construction power
through the permanent electrical facilities. The temporary construction power
may be terminated at any time upon failure of inspection, lack of safety
precautions or failure to obtain a certificate of inspection or a certificate
of occupancy from the inspecting authority. If the new home is in the city or
its extraterritorial jurisdiction, the customer will need an inspection
certificate from the inspecting authority. Before permanent service is offered,
TCED may, at it's sole option, require a certificate of occupancy from the
inspecting authority.
   (D)   All meters will be installed, maintained, owned and read by TCED. The
customers are specifically denied access to any meter or metering equipment,
except by prearrangement with TCED.
   (E)   All new services installed shall require a tap-in fee in accordance
with the tap-in fee schedule, and shall be subject to the TCED development
policy.
   (F)   All requirements of the tap-in fee schedule and the development policy
shall be met before new services are installed.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.19 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Customers applying for residential service for a dwelling owned by the
customer are required to pay a minimum $25 deposit. For all other service
customers, except rental residential units at a dwelling not owned by the
customer, a minimum $50 deposit is required. For deposits in excess of $50,
customer may provide other security, providing that 25% of the security must be
in case, and further providing that all other aspects of the security are
subject to approval of the Utility Service Board. If there is a service
contract, security for the contract and security for the payment of bills may
be defined in the contract. Customers requesting temporary or short term
service may be required to provide an aid to construction payment and/or
deposit to ensure payment of costs of construction and removal of necessary
facilities.
   (B)   An additional deposit may be required from a present residential
service customer who receives disconnect notices for two consecutive months, or
any five months in a preceding 12-month period. All other service customers
receiving disconnect notices for two consecutive months or any three months in
a preceding 12-month period, or whose service has been disconnected for
nonpayment, or have not paid a pervious final bill, may be required to pay a
new or additional deposit and in addition will be required to pay any
arrearages, including interest, penalties and collection costs, before service
is connected.
   (C)   If a current electric bill is not paid by the 10th day of the month
following the month in which the bill was mailed, a disconnect notice will be
mailed to the customer stating that unless the bill is paid in full by the date
stated on the disconnect notice, service will be disconnected. If the bill is
not paid, an employee of the Tell City Electric Department will go to the
structure receiving electrical service for which the bill is unpaid and will
affix on a door of such structure a notice, known as a “doorknocker” stating
that the electrical service is being disconnected on that date. When the
electric Department employee goes to the structure to hang the “doorknocker”,
the employee shall make no effort to have personal contact with either the
customer or anyone residing at or occupying such structure.
   (D)   Customers applying for residential service for a dwelling which is not
owed by the customer are required ro pay a minimum $200 deposit. Provided,
however, that upon such customer establishing good payment history showing
current payment of all billings for a 24-month period, then in the discretion
of the superintendent of the department, some portion of all of such deposit
may be refunded to the customer.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 904, 12-1-2003; Am. Ord. 979, passed 7-2-
2007)
§ 51.20 TAP-IN FEE.
   (A)   For all single phase service to be installed new, or to be upgraded to
a greater capacity, TCED will require the payment of a non-refundable tap-in
fee in an amount as specified in the rate schedules of the tariff. A new
service is an overhead or underground service or meter location, serving a load
that was not served at the location. An upgraded service is a change in the
capacity of an existing service, or meter location, which serves an existing
load at the location.
   (B)   For any three phase service or single phase service of a non-standard
configuration, TCED will require a written term contract in which all terms of
service will be determined, including a tap-in fee. A non-standard service is a
service that is a special voltage or size for the location, or a service for
which a significant change in location is proposed. TCED will make the final
decision as to the classification of services subject to a tap-in fee.
   (C)   The tap-in fee does not replace any minimum fee for non-permanent
construction service, a security deposit or other fees currently in effect. Nor
does the tap-in fee replace any aid to the construction deposit that may be
required of developers of residential and commercial properties in accordance
with this section. Owners of existing services will be required to pay the
entire cost of any change in character or location of existing services, in
addition to the tap-in fee.
   (D)   For multiple unit housing using ganged meters, each meter shall
constitute a service to which the tap-in fee is applicable. Multiple unit
housing developments using ganged meters will receive a discount equivalent to
10% of the tap-in fee for each additional ganged meter after the first meter.
   (E)   Owners of existing services which are temporarily discontinued due to
a fire, windstorm, reconstruction or other reasonable cause shall have 90 days
in which to apply for a waiver of the tap-in fee. Waivers will be granted only
where the service to be replaced is to the same location and is of the same
size.
   (F)   Before TCED will begin any work in providing a new service or change
in service, the tap-in fee must be paid in full.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the information set out above in divisions (A) through
(F), the Superintendent may waive any and all tap-in fees for residential
applications for service if those applicants are constructing an “all-electric”
home and request such service of the department.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 904, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 51.21 SECURITY FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All developers of residential and commercial properties must enter
into an agreement with TCED in order to obtain electric service to property
under development. The agreement must provide: a predetermined plan for the
development, including a site plan showing all existing and proposed utilities,
and including information related to possible future expansion of the
development; a time schedule; load requirements for all locations requiring
service; an estimate of minimum and maximum revenue to be derived from the
proposed loads; a specific plan and design for the electrical system, in
conformity with the easements and schedules provided, all at the sole
discretion of TCED; a recorded plat of the site providing for any required
easements; an estimated cost of providing electric service to all of the loads
in the development in accordance with the information provided; a provision for
changing the cost estimate, in case of changes in the electric system design
for any reason including addition of any administrative, engineering or legal
costs that may be incurred due to the change; the percentage of the electric
system construction costs the developer will provide as an aid to the
construction deposit until the project is determined to be completed; the basis
on which the project is determined to be complete; the period of time the
developer has to complete the project; the forfeiture of deposit in case the
project is not completed according to the terms and conditions of the contract.
   (B)   The aid to construction deposit does not replace any tap-in fees,
minimum fees for non-permanent construction service or other ordinary fees and
service contracts which may be required by TCED.
   (C)   Before TCED will begin any work in providing electric service to a new
development, the agreement provided for division (A) above must be executed,
and any aid to the construction deposit must be paid in full.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.22 SERVICES TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   When requested by TCED, the customer shall advise TCED fully with
respect to:
      (1)   The location of premises where service is desired; and
      (2)   All equipment to be operated.
   (B)   TCED shall advise the customer concerning the character of service to
be supplied, and shall determine the location of the delivery point and the
location of the meter. TCED may limit service to the character of service
available at the designated location of the service. TCED may, at its sole
option, limit service to service of one character only.
   (C)   As the facilities provided by TCED for supply service to the customer
have definite capacity limitations, the customer shall not make any significant
increase in requirements without sufficient advance notice to TCED in order to
provide a reasonable time in which TCED may increase the capacity of its
facilities. Failure to provide the notice to TCED shall make the customer
liable for damages which may be occasioned to the meters or other facilities of
TCED by overload. Failure to provide timely and adequate notice of any change
in requirements or use shall relieve TCED of any or all liability for quality
of service.
   (D)   Before TCED will make any changes in its facilities to increase
capacity to a customer, a new application or contract for service may be
required by TCED.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.23 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Available voltages and transformer size limits shall be according to
the following table and the table in division (B) below.
 
Voltage                     Transformer Size Limits
Single phase; 120/240 volts 250 KVA
 
   (B)   Voltages listed below are not available at all locations. TCED must be
consulted regarding voltage availability at any particular location. When the
customer's load requirements are greater than the maximum listed below, TCED
will supply additional or other facilities at the same location, which
facilities at TCED's option may be considered excess facilities.
Voltage                                      Transformer Size Limits
Three phase; 120/208                         750 KVA
Three phase; 120/240 volts (four-wire delta) 367 KVA1
Three phase; 240 volts delta                 750 KVA
Three phase; 277/480 volts wye               1,500 KVA
Three phase; 480 volts delta                 1,500 KVA
Notes to Table:
1 Customer size limit 357 KVA (2-100 KVA and 1-167 KVA transformer)
 
   (C)   (1)   Appliances or devices with a rating of greater than 20 amps
shall be connected at 240 volts.
      (2)   Single phase motors up to but not exceeding ten horsepower may be
connected to a single phase lighting service under the following conditions:
         (a)   Single phase motors not in excess of three-fourths horsepower
may be wound for 120 or 240 volts and may be operated from a lighting branch
circuit.
         (b)   Single phase motors, one horsepower to ten horsepower inclusive,
must be wound for 240 volts, be connected across the 240-volt legs of a 120/240
volts three-wire service, and be operated from a branch circuit separate from
any lighting.
         (c)   Upon approval by TCED, single phase service will be made
available to a phase converter where system conditions permit and where the
name plate rating of the largest three phase motor does not exceed 50
horsepower, and where the combined name plate ratings of all three phase motors
does not exceed 75 horsepower.
         (d)   Service to any intermittent or highly fluctuating load must be
reviewed and approved by TCED prior to the installation of the equipment.
Approval for installation does not relieve the customer of responsibility for
conditions that cause a deterioration in the quality of service either on the
customer's premises or on another customer's premises which is connected to the
same electrical system. TCED reserves the right to disconnect any service or
service premises which are impacting quality of service conditions for other
customers. This includes the customers whose connected equipment are generating
electromagnetic radiation which interferes with any communication equipment of
others.
         (e)   Service to any motor rated greater than ten horsepower must be
reviewed and approved by TCED prior to the installation of the equipment. Upon
approval, service to any motor rated greater than ten horsepower will be
considered a power installation and will be served under TCED's applicable
power rates, with the exception of a softstart single phase motor in excess of
10 horsepower, where the starting current of the motor does not exceed the
starting current of an equivalent conventional ten horsepower single phase
motor and where system conditions permit.
   (D)   (1)   TCED supplies different voltages and types of polyphase service
in various locations. In all cases, TCED must be consulted regarding the
character of service available at any particular location.
      (2)   TCED will supply single phase or polyphase service for power in
accordance with the following general provisions:
         (a)   Installations having motor load aggregating ten horsepower or
less will ordinarily be supplied with single phase service. The customers
requiring polyphase service within this rating should consult TCED regarding
the availability of the service for their particular application.
         (b)   Installations having a motor load aggregating more than ten
horsepower may be supplied either single phase or polyphase service, depending
upon the particular application and the availability of polyphase service at
the customer's premises.
         (c)   TCED may require the use of any starting or current limiting
equipment as may, in its opinion, be necessary for use with any motor or
apparatus to prevent undue disturbance, unbalance, or voltage fluctuations on
its lines. Electric welders, X-ray devices and similar equipment usually
require a separate power supply for satisfactory operation. TCED should be
consulted in every case prior to the installation of the equipment.
         (d)   Electric furnaces and other heating devices shall be energized
in a manner that TCED's system will not experience undue disturbances,
unbalance or voltage fluctuations.
   (E)   (1)   Voltages listed below are not available at all locations:
         (a)   Three phase; 2400- volts delta;
         (b)   Three phase; 2400/4180-volts wye; and
         (c)   Three phase; 8000/13,800-volts wye.
      (2)   TCED's Engineering Department must be consulted in each case
relative to service availability and transformer size limits.
   (F)   (1)   Customers may be supplied at the following voltages as
determined and specified by TCED:
         (a)   Three phase; 68 KV; and
         (b)   Three phase; 138 KV.
      (2)   TCED's Engineering Department must be consulted in each case
relative to service available and transformer size limits.
   (G)   (1)   TCED will designate the specifications and location at which
overhead service lines will be connected to the customer’s facilities.
      (2)   Underground service is subject to special conditions and policies
making it necessary to consult TCED before wiring or rewiring the premises.
When underground service is supplied, the customer must enter into an agreement
with TCED designating the point of connection of each underground service to
the customer’s facilities. In some cases TCED will require curb side metering.
      (3)   Any changes made in service connections, either overhead or
underground, at the customer’s request after the original installations shall
be at the customer’s expense.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.24 PREDICATION OF RATES.
   (A)   TCED's rate schedules, except as provided for in divisions (1), (2)
and (3) below, are predicated upon the supply of service to one premises, at
one standard voltage, at one delivery point and through one meter for the
ultimate use by one customer.
      (1)   When service is supplied to an individual residential dwelling unit
primarily for serving one family, and where boarders or roomers are
accommodated for incidental income, the service will be provided under the
residential rate schedule.
      (2)   When service is supplied to a residential dwelling unit where the
use is primarily for the accommodations of roomers or boarders, the service
will be provided under a nonresidential rate schedule, unless separate circuits
are furnished by the customer to permit TCED to separately meter and bill the
residential and nonresidential uses.
      (3)   When the principal use of service supplied to a residential
dwelling unit is for residential purposes, but a small amount of energy will be
used for nonresidential purposes, the nonresidential use will be permitted only
when the equipment for the use does not require an inrush current in excess of
100 amps. Use of an apparatus with an inrush current in excess of 100 amps
requires TCED approval. When the nonresidential equipment and/or use exceeds
the above stated limits, the customer will be required to separate his or her
wiring so that the nonresidential use may be metered separately, and the
nonresidential use will be billed under the appropriate nonresidential rate
schedule or the entire service will be billed under the appropriate
nonresidential rate schedule.
   (B)   Except for the provisions of division (A) above, when service is
supplied to premises involving more than one service classification, standard
voltage or delivery point, each service of this type shall be separately
metered and billed unless the rate schedule or rider specifically provides for
more than one voltage and the combining of the meter readings, or when the
service is installed in a manner for TCED's operating convenience or to meet
legal requirements. All arrangements require the express approval of TCED and
all facilities in excess of division (A) above may be designated as excess
facilities.
   (C)   In no case will TCED be obligated to provide a single premises with
more than one meter.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.25 RATE SCHEDULE SELECTION.
   (A)   When more than one rate schedule is available for the service
requested, the customer shall designate the rate schedule on which the
application or contract shall be based, and TCED will assist the customer in
the selection of the Rate Schedule best adapted to the customer's service
requirements; provided, however, that TCED does not assume responsibility for
the selection or that the customer will at all times be served under the most
favorable rate schedule.
   (B)   The customer may change his or her initial rate schedule selection to
another applicable rate schedule at any time by either written notice to TCED
and/or by executing a new contract for the rate schedule selected, provided
that the application of the subsequent selection shall continue for 12 months
before any other selection may be made. In no case will TCED refund any
monetary difference between the rate schedule under which service was billed in
prior periods and the newly selected rate schedule.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.26 SERVICE EXTENSIONS OR CHANGES IN SERVICE REQUESTED BY THE CUSTOMER.
   TCED will require the customer to pay the cost of relocating, modifying or
otherwise changing its facilities for the convenience of the customer.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.27 TCED EQUIPMENT ON THE CUSTOMER'S PREMISES.
   (A)   The customer shall furnish TCED a satisfactory location for and
provide safe access to TCED's meters and other equipment necessary to provide
and measure service, and shall also furnish TCED the rights on, over or under
the customer's premises necessary to install, operate and maintain TCED's other
facilities required to supply service to the customer. TCED reserves the right
to make the final decision as to the location of the meter on the customer's
premises.
   (B)   When the customer is not the owner of the premises and/or of the
adjacent premises, the customer shall furnish TCED with satisfactory easements
for the location of TCED's facilities on the premises and/or on the adjacent
premises. The customer must consult with TCED prior to obtaining the easements.
TCED may, at its sole option, obtain the easements on the customer's behalf,
provided that the customer agrees to reimburse TCED for expenses incurred.
   (C)    When TCED's transformers, meters or other facilities are to be
installed indoors on the customer's premises, the customer shall furnish,
without cost to TCED, suitable room or vault for housing the equipment;
provided, however, that TCED shall reserve the right to make the final decision
as to the location of the room or vault. The space shall meet the requirements
of the National Electrical Code, any federal, state or local laws or
regulations, and any policies of TCED in effect at the time of the
installation.
   (D)   At it sole option, TCED may change the location of any or all of its
facilities upon request of the customer, provided that:
      (1)   The change will not interfere with or jeopardize TCED's service
either to the customer requesting the change or to other customers of TCED, and
the customer may be required to bear the expense of the change.
      (2)   The customer shall provide reasonable protection from loss or
damage to TCED property and may be liable to TCED in the event of loss or
damage caused by the negligence of the customer or any agent or employee of the
customer.
   (E)   The customer shall not disconnect, change connections or otherwise
interfere with TCED's meters or other property, and shall be responsible to
TCED for permitting anyone who is not an agent or employee of TCED to tamper
with TCED's property.
   (F)   All facilities installed by TCED shall be and remain the property of
TCED unless a contract expressly otherwise provides, and TCED shall operate and
maintain its property.
   (G)   Properly authorized employees or agents of TCED shall have the right
and the means to enter upon the customer's premises at all reasonable times for
the purpose of meter reading, inspecting, testing, maintaining, operating or
replacing any or all of TCED's property used in supplying any service to the
customer.
   (H)   Upon termination of a contract or discontinuance of service, TCED
shall have the right to remove all of its property from the customer's
premises.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 CUSTOMER'S INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The customer shall install and maintain suitable entrance equipment,
switches and protective devices to afford reasonably adequate protection to
TCED's property and system against a fault originating beyond the delivery
point to the customer.
   (B)   All of the customer's equipment shall be constructed and maintained
subject to approval by an authorized inspecting authority and in accordance
with the National Electric Code, any federal, state or local law, and TCED
requirements in effect at the time of installation, or at the time of any
subsequent modification.
   (C)   The use of the customer's equipment shall not adversely affect TCED's
system or service supplied by TCED to other customers.
   (D)   Power factor correction equipment owned and installed by customers
served under a rate schedule where KVA is used to determine the billing maximum
load shall be installed on the load side of the delivery point and metering
point.
   (E)   TCED does not under any circumstances assume any responsibility in
connection with the customer's installations, and the customer shall at all
times be responsible for the character and condition of the equipment
installations.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.29 RENDERING AND PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Bills for service will be rendered monthly at intervals of
approximately 30 days and will be based on the charges set forth in the rate
schedules, this subchapter and any applicable contracts, and are payable at any
office of TCED or to its authorized collection agencies.
   (B)   A bill is considered delinquent unless payment is received on or prior
to the due date shown on the bill.
   (C)   A delinquent bill may be assessed a late payment charge, which will be
assessed after 10:00 a.m. on the next working day after the due date of the
second billing cycle. Penalty and disconnection notices are mailed on the same
day. The amount of the late payment charge will be 1.5% of the current unpaid
balance and shall be assessed each month. The current balance includes
miscellaneous charges, but excludes any previous penalties. The late payment
charge assessed on a customer who uses budget billing pursuant to §
51.30 shall not be calculated on the current budget billing or current budget
balance, but shall be calculated on the actual current balance, including
miscellaneous charges, but excluding any previous penalty amounts. Penalties
are not assessed on the customer's final bill if the total amount is paid
within a reasonable period.
   (D)   Failure to receive a bill shall not entitle the customer to pay the
net bill after the designated due date has passed. Upon request, TCED will
inform the customer of the approximate date on which the customer should
receive the bill each month and, if the bill is lost, TCED will issue a
duplicate.
   (E)   Initial or final bills for service supplied will be calculated on the
basis of the applicable rate schedule.
   (F)   Following disconnection of service, the customer will be sent a final
bill, which is due on or prior to the due date shown on the bill. Any
difference between budget billing balances and the actual billing balances will
be billed or refunded on the final bill.
   (G)   When TCED is unable to obtain the reading of a meter after reasonable
effort, it may estimate the reading and render a bill so marked. If the
customer's actual use is higher or lower than TCED's estimate, the difference
will be reflected in the first bill after TCED is able to read the customer's
meter. TCED will require access to the customer's premises on a periodic basis
to confirm estimated usage. An unannounced meter reading will be made at least
once each year. Failure to allow access to the meter, for the purpose of
inspection or reading the meter, may be cause for discontinuance of service
until the meter is moved to an accessible location. In some circumstances the
customer will be offered the option of remote meter reading. Remote meter
reading may be done by wired or wireless device or by the customer manually.
The customer shall pay a fixed monthly fee for the service in accordance with
the applicable rate schedule.
   (H)   In the event TCED's meter fails to register properly for any reason,
TCED shall estimate the customer's energy use and/or maximum load during the
period of failure based on factors such as the customer's normal load and
energy usage during a like corresponding period.
   (I)   When TCED is required to reprocess a check rendered for payment of the
customer's bill, a handling charge of shall be added to a subsequent billing in
the amount specified in the rate schedule. A handling charge also will be
assessed in accordance with the rate schedule when a customer has insufficient
funds in his or her electronic billing account on the billing due date.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 835, passed 10-4-1999)
§ 51.30 BUDGET PAYMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Some residential customers may use TCED's budget plan, which allows
them to level out seasonal variations in their bill.
   (B)   The customers must meet the following qualifications at the time the
application for budget payment plan is processed:
      (1)   The customer must have received 12 months of continuous service at
the same service location.
      (2)   The customer must not have been late or delinquent in payment
during the previous 12 months.
      (3)   The customer must have a zero account balance.
      (4)   The customer must appear at the office and sign a budget payment
plan agreement.
   (C)   The budget plan payment amount will be the total of the last 12 months
of service divided by 11, taxes included. The customer may request an
adjustment in the budget amount at the end of each 12-month period. TCED may
require an adjustment in the budget amount at the end of each 12-month period.
   (D)   The customer must pay the budget amount billed, including tax, each
month by the due date shown on the bill. Budget plan customers who are late
more than two months consecutively, or who are delinquent and subject to
disconnect, will be removed from the budget plan.
   (E)   The customers who are removed from the budget plan and who owe a
balance due must pay the balance due by the due date shown on the next bill.
   (F)   The customers who are removed from the budget plan and who have a
credit balance due will have the balance credited against their next regular
billing. If the customer's credit balance due exceeds their next regular
billing, the balance will be credited against the subsequent regular billings
or refunded to the customer upon request.
   (G)   Applications for budget billing will be processed on a first come
first serve basis, except for referrals from public assistance agencies, which
will be processed on a priority basis.
   (H)   Applications for budget plan payment will be approved for residential
service only.
   (I)   The budget plan agreement provides for a maximum monthly billing
amount. TCED may, at its discretion, remove the customer from the budget
payment plan if any monthly bill exceeds the maximum bill stated in the budget
payment plan agreement.
   (J)   The minimum budget payment plan term will be 12 months. The term
starts on the first billing date for which the customer is billed under the
budget payment plan.
   (K)   A customer who has violated the budget payment plan agreement will not
be returned to the budget plan in the future.
   (L)   The budget plan agreement applies to the address or location shown on
the agreement, and may not be moved to another location or address. The
customers who move should reapply for service at their new address. At its sole
discretion TCED may approve the application prior to the expiration of the 12-
month service requirement.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.31 CUSTOMER'S REQUEST TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   (A)   The customer who has not contracted for service for a specified term
may have service discontinued by giving notice at TCED's office of the date on
which the customer desires that service be discontinued. TCED will endeavor to
obtain the final meter reading on the date the customer specifies in his or her
notice, but shall not be obligated to do so unless the customer's notice
provides TCED at least three working days. The customer shall be obligated to
pay for service rendered to the premises until the final meter reading is
obtained by TCED.
   (B)   The customer who has contracted for service for a specified time may
have service discontinued by giving notice at TCED's office and agreeing to pay
for service used to the date of disconnection. The customer shall also be
liable for the minimum charges which would be due TCED for the remaining period
of the contract in accordance with the contract provisions. The customers who
have service contracts must satisfy all of the terms of the contract at or
following the last day of service in accordance with this subchapter, in
addition to any terms and conditions provided in the service contract.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.32 TCED'S RIGHT TO REFUSE OR DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   (A)   TCED may refuse or discontinue service to any customer without notice
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   When, in TCED's opinion, a condition exists that is dangerous or
hazardous to life, physical safety or property;
      (2)   When emergency repairs must be made to TCED's facilities or system;
      (3)   When there has been tampering with TCED's meters or equipment, or
evidence of fraudulent or unauthorized use of energy in a manner so as to
circumvent TCED's meter; and/or
      (4)   When ordered to do so by a court, a duly authorized public
authority or an authorized governmental agency.
   (B)   TCED may discontinue service to the customer, and refuse to serve any
other member of the same household or firm at the same premises, with
reasonable notice for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Nonpayment of a bill for services at this location;
      (2)   Nonpayment of a bill for the same class of services at another
location;
      (3)   Violation of any duly constituted TCED rule or regulation; and/or
      (4)   Certain orders for disconnection by a duly authorized public
authority, when notice is requested by the authority, or for reasons described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above, where notice is deemed appropriate
by TCED.
   (C)   Disconnection of service after notice may not be made until the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   A customer may not be disconnected, except for conditions described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above on any day during which the business
office is closed, or past the hour of 12:00 p.m. local time on any day
preceding any day during which the business office is closed.
      (2)   A customer may not be disconnected, except for conditions described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above, during the period from December 1
through March 15, provided the customer has applied for benefits under State
Project Safe, the same being I.C. 4-27-5 or I.C. 4-26-8, unless a written
certification is received from Project Safe that the applicant is not qualified
for Project Safe.
      (3)   Disconnection of residential service shall be postponed for a
period of ten days, if, prior to the disconnection date, the customer provides
a written statement from a licensed physician or public health official that
disconnection of the customer's residential service would result in a serious
and immediate threat to the safety or health of a designated person of the
affected residence. The customer may not be disconnected for an additional ten
days upon presentation of a second statement.
      (4)   A customer may not be disconnected, except for conditions described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above, if the customer shows good cause,
including financial hardship, and can qualify for a deferred payment plan. A
deferred payment plan requires a written agreement with the customer. The
customer shall be assessed reasonable interest and collection costs in addition
to the actual bill arrears. TCED will consider a waiver of interest and
collection fees upon the written recommendation of a recognized Social Service
Agency.
      (5)   A customer may not be disconnected, except for conditions described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above, if the customer disputes the bill
and establishes qualification for maintaining service while the disputed bill
is being reviewed in accordance with division (D) below.
      (6)   A customer may not be disconnected, except for conditions described
in divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above, if the temperature (ambient) is
below 32°F.
      (7)   A customer may not be disconnected in circumstances, determined by
TCED's Superintendent, which might create a substantial hardship on the
customer or the community.
      (8)   A customer may not be disconnected upon the order of an officer of
the state of competent jurisdiction.
      (9)   When the supply of electricity has been cut off upon the customer's
failure to make a timely payment or to abide by this subchapter, TCED will not
be obligated to restore service until the customer:
         (a)   Has made application for service and paid all bills due for
service previously furnished;
         (b)   Has made a satisfactory deposit, if required, to insure payment
of future bills;
         (c)   Has paid the cost of reconnection set forth in division (E)
below at the location so disconnected; and
         (d)   Has corrected, to TCED's satisfaction, the failure to abide by
this subchapter.
   (D)   When TCED has discontinued service for nonpayment of a bill, as
provided for in division (B) above, a reconnection charge of $16 shall be
required during normal working hours. The customers requesting reconnection at
any other time will be charged $16 in addition to all costs incurred by TCED in
making the service call.
   (E)   Discontinuance of service in accordance with the provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) above shall not constitute a breach of any obligation of
TCED under any contract for service with the customer, and TCED shall not in
any case be liable to the customer for any damages resulting from the
discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The customers who dispute a bill or any portion of a bill must meet
the following qualifications to avoid a disconnection of service:
      (1)   The customer must pay a reasonable portion of the disputed bill,
which may not exceed the average monthly amount of the previous six-months’
bills.
      (2)   The customer agrees to cooperate with TCED in resolving the
disputed portion of the bill.
      (3)   The customer agrees to pay the remainder of the bill, if any, at a
reasonable rate after the dispute is resolved.
      (4)   The customer agrees to pay all undisputed future bills, for
service, as they become due.
      (5)   The customer must appear in person to sign an agreement which
includes the terms agreed to with TCED.
      (6)   TCED may not charge a penalty on any disputed portion of the
billing which is resolved to the customer's benefit. TCED may charge reasonable
penalties and collection costs on any amount resolved to TCED's benefit.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.33 METER ACCURACY; ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   All service supplied by TCED will be measured by meters of standard
manufacture which are owned, installed and maintained by TCED, except under
rate schedules in which the charges for service are on an unmetered rate
predicated on an estimated use of either TCED's or the customer's equipment
such as street lighting, traffic signals and the like.
   (B)   TCED shall periodically test all meters and measuring devices for
accuracy in billing for services.
   (C)   If a customer believes his or her meter is inaccurate, he or she may
notify TCED in writing and TCED will test the meter at no charge. After a 12-
month period, the customer may request another test. The customer will be
required to pay the full cost of further testing if requested at less than
three-year intervals, and where no meter error is found. TCED will make and
furnish a written report of the test to the customer.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.34 INTERRUPTIONS AND VARIATIONS IN SERVICE CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   TCED will, at all times, endeavor to provide regular and uninterrupted
service, but does not guarantee uninterrupted service and does not guarantee
against variations in service characteristics, such as frequency, voltage,
phase angle, phase balance, system neutral to ground voltage differentials,
harmonics generated by the customer or others, outages and single phasing of a
three-phase system, occasioned by acts of God, uncontrollable forces,
accidents, acts of wild or domestic animals, orders of public authorities,
fires, strikes, riots, casualties, computer failures, necessity for making
repairs or replacements of TCED's facilities, variations in the condition of
power furnished by TCED's wholesale suppliers, or otherwise.
   (B)   In case the supply of service is interrupted or the customer sustains
other variations such as high or low voltage, single phasing of three-phase
service, phase reversals, system neutral to ground voltage differentials, or
trouble resulting from defects in the customer's wiring or other equipment,
TCED shall not be liable to the customer for damages or losses resulting from
the interruption or variation in service.
   (C)   Interruptions or variations as described in §
51.32 shall not constitute a breach of any obligations of TCED under any
contract for service with the customer, and TCED shall not in any case be
liable to the customer for damages resulting from the interruptions and
variations.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.35 NON-PERMANENT SERVICE.
   (A)   When in the opinion of TCED the use of service will not be of a
permanent nature, the customer shall enter into a contract of service
containing any additional terms and conditions TCED deems appropriate, and
shall pay the estimated cost of constructing the facilities to serve the
customer, including labor, material, stores freight and handling and overhead,
plus the estimated cost of removing the facilities and returning the same to
the TCED storeroom, minus the estimated salvage value of material returned to
the TCED storeroom. In no case shall the payment be less than $40.
   (B)   A customer requesting construction electric service to a construction
site shall pay the estimated cost of constructing the facilities to serve the
customer, including labor, material, stores freight, handling and overhead,
plus the estimated cost of removing the facilities and returning the same to
the TCED storeroom, minus the estimated salvage value of material returned to
the TCED storeroom. In no case shall the payment be less than $40.
   (C)   Service supplied to a non-permanent or construction site connection
will be billed under the applicable rate schedule.
   (D)   The customer may be required to make a deposit to ensure payment of
charges as specified in § 51.19.
§ 51.36 SERVICES CHARGES.
   (A)   A service charge of $16 is assessed to the customer for the initial
connection of service.
   (B)   A service charge of $16 is assessed to the customer for any interim
meter reading, changes in account name, or substantial changes in the customer
record.
   (C)   There are no service charges for responses to service requests arising
from voltage variances or interruptions in service made during regular working
hours. There are no charges for these requests for service during non-working
hours provided that:
      (1)   The request is for restoration of an existing service;
      (2)   The service is not one which will only be provided during regular
working hours. Street lights or security lights will only be restored during
regular working hours; and/or
      (3)   The cause of the outage or service problem is not the
responsibility of the customer.
   (D)   If TCED responds to a customer's request for service, at other than
regular working hours, and the cause of the service problem is determined to be
the customer's responsibility, then the customer may be charged a service fee
for the call out.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.37 CUSTOMER'S USE OF SERVICE; RESALE AND REDISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Service shall be used by the customer only for the purposes specified
in the applicable agreement and in accordance with the applicable rate
schedule, and no customer shall resell the service to a third party by sub-
metering the service.
   (B)   Service delivered to new multi-unit buildings containing units that
are separately rented, leased or owned shall be individually metered for each
occupied unit except for:
      (1)   Service used in hotels, motels and other similar transient lodging;
and/or
      (2)   When the customer proves the cost of purchasing and installing the
wiring and equipment necessary for individual metering exceed the long run
benefits resulting from energy conservation and efficient utilization of
facilities.
   (C)   Existing buildings or premises which were constructed prior to April
2, 1980, or for which a local building permit or a Certificate of Compliance
from the Administrative Building Council was issued prior to April 2, 1980, and
which are individually metered, shall remain individually metered for each
occupancy unit separately rented, leased or owned.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.38 AUXILIARY SERVICE AND SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICE.
   TCED will supply service to the customer operating privately owned
generating equipment based on the manner in which the customer makes use of the
TCED service.
   (A)   Auxiliary service will be supplied on a firm-use basis under the
applicable rate schedule for a designated part of the customer's load
requirements when the wiring to the part of the customer's requirements is
completely segregated from the wiring which furnishes the requirements from the
customer's generating equipment, and there are no means for interconnecting the
two wiring systems.
   (B)   Supplemental service will be provided to qualifying generating
facilities in accordance with Schedule QF on file with the Clerk-Treasurer, and
available for inspection at the business office of TCED.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.39 PURCHASE OF ENERGY FROM A QUALIFYING FACILITY.
   TCED will purchase energy from qualifying facilities in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule QF.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.40 UNUSUAL FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The customer may contract with TCED to provide energy-related services
not specifically contained within the tariff. These contract services may
include, but not be limited to, maintenance of customer owned electrical
facilities, installation of electrical facilities on the customer's premises,
and engineering and/or construction related services. The customer and TCED
shall enter into a contract specifying the terms and conditions under which the
contract services will be provided. The cost of providing the contract services
will be based on a similar work order methodology used by TCED to establish
costs of supplying similar services under the electric tariff, including
applicable administrative and overhead charges.
   (B)   The terms of payment for the contract services will be mutually agreed
to by the customer and TCED. The payment for the services may appear as a
separate item on the customer’s bill for electric service. Contracting for the
services under §
51.38 will in no way affect the customer’s and TCED’s respective obligations
regarding the rendering of and payment for electric service under the tariff
and the applicable rate schedule.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.41 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF SERVICES.
   Any customer requesting any service will be required to make a cash deposit.
   (A)   The minimum cash deposit required of residential customers will be two
times the estimated monthly bill.
   (B)   The minimum cash deposit required of all other customers will be two
and one-half times the estimated monthly bill.
   (C)   The Utility Service Board has the discretion to establish a security
deposit lower or greater than the minimum enumerated in the preceding sections
in the case of specialized installations. The Utility Service Board may also
waive the deposit at its sole discretion.
   (D)   The security deposit may be provided in the following forms:
      (1)   Cash deposit;
      (2)   Escrow with escrow agreement;
      (3)   Security/payment bond;
      (4)   Certificate of deposit with assignment contract (placed under the
control of TCED);
      (5)   Letter of credit; or
      (6)   Any other form as prescribed by the Utility Service Board. However,
the institution and the form of agreement must be approved by the Utility
Service Board.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.42 DISSEMINATION OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION.
   (A)   The customer information, related directly to a customer’s name or
specific location or account may only be disseminated to specific agencies.
   (B)   Agencies who may receive specific information are:
      (1)   Government agencies, when a written request is made on the agency’s
letterhead, when the request is authorized by an officer of the agency, and
when a specific reason is given for requesting the information.
      (2)   Any agency which has power of subpoena, upon written request, over
the signature of an officer of the agency.
      (3)   Any agency which has statutory police power or which has authority
as a statutory agency of public safety, upon written request, over the
signature of an officer of the agency. Any agency which has made a written
request upon the Access to Public Records Act and which has complied with all
of the requirements of the Access to Public Records Act. Certification of
compliance with the Access to Public Records Act shall be made by the
department’s attorney before dissemination of the information.
(Res. R990419d, passed - - )
§ 51.43 NET METERING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city encourages interested citizens and businesses to invest in
renewable electric energy generation systems and enter into a net metering
arrangement with the Tell City Electric Department.
   (B)   Eligible net metering customers include residential and commercial
customers in good standing that own and operate a solar, wind, biomass,
geothermal, or hydroelectric generating facility that:
      (1)   Has a nameplate capacity less than or equal to ten kilowatts (kW);
      (2)   Is located on the customer's premises which serves only the
customer’s premises, and is operated by the customer; and
      (3)   Is used primarily to offset all or part of the customer's own
electricity requirements.
   (C)   The Council authorizes the Tell City Electric Department to offer net
metering to eligible net metering customers on a first come, first served
basis. The Tell City Electric Department shall limit the aggregate amount of
net metering facility nameplate capacity from all eligible net metering
customers to one-tenth of 0.1% of the Tell City Electric Department's most
recent summer peak load.
   (D)   The Tell City Electric Department shall measure the difference between
the amount of energy delivered by the Tell City Electric Department to the
eligible net metering customer and the amount of energy generated by the
eligible net metering customer and delivered to the Tell City Electric
Department. If the eligible net metering customer generates more energy than is
consumed in a month, the customer shall receive a bill credit from the Tell
City Electric Department for the amount of surplus energy generated. The Tell
City Electric Department shall not purchase or wheel power produced by an
eligible net metering customer's facilities.
   (E)   The attached “Net Metering Tariff” shall be adopted as the terms and
conditions under which the Tell City Electric Department will offer net
metering to eligible net metering customers.
   (F)   In accordance with the terms of the attached “Net Metering Tariff”,
the Tell City Electric Department shall enter into an interconnection agreement
with the eligible net metering customer, which incorporates technical
interconnection requirements and does not conflict with this section before the
net metering facility may be interconnected with the Tell City Electric
Department’s system.
(Ord. 1081, passed 11-3-2014)
ELECTRIC SERVICE RATES
§ 51.55 ADOPTION OF RATE SCHEDULES BY REFERENCE.
   The rate schedules of the TCED, enacted by the city as Exhibit B Ordinance
891, passed on 2-3-2003, is hereby adopted by reference and made part of this
code the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies are on file in the TCED
business office for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Am. Ord. 904, passed 12-1-2003; Am. Ord. 933, passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. 935,
passed 6-6-2005; Am. Ord. 972, passed 4-2-2007; Am. Ord. 993, passed 4-7-2008;
Am. Ord. 995, passed 5-5-2008; Am. Ord. 1000, passed 7-7-2008 Am. Ord. 1014,
passed 7-6-2009; Am. Ord. 1017, passed 8-3-2009; Am. Ord. 1021, passed 10-5-
2009; Am. Ord. 1072, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord. 1122, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord.
1133, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. 1159, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 1187, passed
6-20-2022; Am. Ord. 1190, passed 7-7-2022; Am. Ord. 1195, passed 11-7-2022)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 51.70 TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
   The TCED is authorized to pursue the provision of an appropriate
telecommunications infrastructure and services for sale or lease to the
citizens of the city and its environs. The TCED may pursue the entrance into
long term debt to construct said infrastructure and services for sale or lease
to the citizens of the city and its environs reserving to the Common Council
the right to approve any such long term indebtedness and bond issue. The TCED
is also authorized to pursue the entrance into a cooperative agreement with an
appropriate third party entity to provide these telecommunications services to
the citizens of the city and its environs.
(Am. Ord. 883, passed 6-3-2002)
INTERNET SERVICE
§ 51.80 INTERNET SERVICE.
   (A)   The Tell City Electric Department has the authority to provide joint
high speed wireless internet service for the municipality of Tell City as well
as the entire 547 telephone exchange service area as long as such area lies
within six miles of the current corporate limits of Tell City pursuant to I.C.
§ 8-1.5-2 and I.C. § 8-1.5-3.
   (B)   The Tell City Electric Department should use only its funds generated
from its operations for the purpose of financing any such venture regarding the
provision of these internet services.
   (C)   The Tell City Electric Department is hereby authorized to negotiate
revisions in the existing joint venture agreement between it and Perry-Spencer
Communications, Inc.
   (D)   The Tell City Electric Department is further authorized to negotiate
and consummate an agreement with Perry Spencer Communications, Inc. to form a
business entity to construct a broadband network and provide all appropriate
telecommunication services for the customers in the appropriate geographical
area.
(Ord. 901, passed 11-3-2003)
CHAPTER 52: WATERWORKS
Section
Construction Regulations
   
52.01   Installation of shutoff valve in new or remodeled buildings required
   
52.02   Cross connection control
Water Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Metered consumption
   
52.16   Minimum charge
   
52.17   Sales for resale
   
52.18   Contract rate for Waupaca Foundry, Inc.
   
52.19   Fire protection
   
52.20   Temporary users
   
52.21   Collection and deferred payment charge
   
52.22   Tap charge
   
52.23   Reconnect fee
   
52.24   Bad check charge
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 INSTALLATION OF SHUTOFF VALVE IN NEW OR REMODELED BUILDINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   When any property owner and/or lessee of any existing building in the
city has a licensed plumber or a representative of the City Water Department to
shut off the water supply at the water meter, that customer shall be notified
in writing by the person performing that task that he or she must then have
installed a shutoff valve within the building within 30 days from that date of
shutoff. It is a violation of this section for anyone other than a
representative of the Tell City Water Department and/or a licensed plumber to
remove the lid of a water meter pit and/or physically work inside the meter
pit. Licensed plumbers are to contact the Tell City Water Department if they
are going to access the meter pit before the work is to be performed or if the
work performed by a plumber is emergency work after hours, the plumber is to
notify the Tell City Water Department immediately following the completion of
the work during normal business hours for the Tell City Water Department.
   (B)   Any person who violates the terms of this section shall pay a fine of
up to $250 and any such person who requires the Tell City Water Department
personnel to be called out for the above reasons, shall pay all service call
charges for those employees of the city based on then-existing call out rates.
(Ord. 777, passed 3-4-1996; Am. Ord. 892, passed 2-3-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   A CROSS CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the city water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the city and by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 AC 8-
10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Water Department Superintendent of the
city to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public
water system where cross connections with the public water system is deemed
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential
health hazards involved shall be as established by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the Superintendent or his
representative shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
city for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the present of cross connections.
   (E)   The Water Department Superintendent of the city is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue water service to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this section exists, and to take such other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system. Water service shall he discontinued
only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee or occupants of the
property or premises where a violation is found or suspected to exist. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until the cross connection(s)
has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Water Department Superintendent of the city
that a cross connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or
welfare and requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city and delivered to the consumer's
premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an
opportunity for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer
(check valve) in the main water line serving the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code or any
current or future plumbing ordinances of the city but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 1115, passed 10-3-16)
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 METERED CONSUMPTION.
   For use and service rendered by the waterworks system of the city for
property in the city limits, the following rates and charges, based upon the
use of water supplied by the waterworks system.
 
Consumption Per Month Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
First 10,000 gallons  $6.20
Next 90,000 gallons   $5.48
Next 100,000 gallons  $3.00
Over 200,000 gallons  $2.48
 
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.16 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   Each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user shall be
entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates.
Meter Size Gallons Allowed Monthly Minimum Charge
Meter Size             Gallons Allowed Monthly Minimum Charge
5/8- or 3/4-inch meter 3,333           $20.66
1-inch meter           7,500           $46.50
1 and ¼-inch meter    16,735          $98.91
1 and ½-inch meter    27,125          $155.85
2-inch meter           34,245          $194.86
3-inch meter           75,000          $418.20
4-inch meter           140,280         $676.04
6-inch meter           377,080         $1,294.36
 
   For use and service rendered by the waterworks system of the city for
property outside of the city limits, the foregoing rates and charges, plus a
surcharge of 10% will be charged.
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.17 SALES FOR RESALE.
 
Corporation                           Rate per 1,000 Gallons
And-Tro, Inc.                         $2.48
Troy Township Water Association, Inc. $2.48
 
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.18 CONTRACT RATE FOR WAUPACA FOUNDRY, INC.
 
Type of Charge Charge/Rate
Volume charge  $.71 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 917, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 1117,
passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 52.19 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Monthly surcharge.
 
Meter Size         Monthly Surcharge
5/8-inch meter     $3.45
1-inch meter       $4.92
1 and ½-inch meter$6.30
2-inch meter       $10.08
3-inch meter       $37.95
4-inch meter       $48.30
 
   (B)   Private hydrants.
 
     Per Annum
Each $546.36
   
   (C)   Automatic sprinklers.
 
2 inch  $385.53
3 inch  $514.11
4 inch  $642.67
6 inch  $787.29
8 inch  $1,570.39
10 inch $1,675.07
12 inch $1,803.46
 
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.20 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users such as contractors, circuses and the
like shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates hereinbefore set
forth, as estimated and established by the Waterworks Superintendent.
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.21 COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   All bills for water services not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to the collection or
deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3.
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1083, passed 1-5-2015; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-
2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 52.22 TAP CHARGE.
   (A)   All users, at the time of connection to the waterworks system, shall
pay a charge to cover the cost of tapping the main, furnishing and laying
service pipe, corporation and stop cocks, service and meter box and furnishing
and installing the meter.
   (B)   The charge for a 5/8 or 3/4-inch meter shall be $1,613.19 if the meter
installation requires a cut of a paved street or alley. If the installation
does not require the cut of a paved street or alley, the charge shall be
$1,206.29. The charge for a tap larger than the 3/4-inch meter tap will be the
cost of labor and materials, but not less than $1,613.19.
   (C)   There shall be an automatic increase in these tap charges of 2%
annually, with the first increase to be effective January 1, 2023, and to
increase 2% annually thereafter on January 1 of each successive year.
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.23 RECONNECT FEE.
   After any water service is discontinued to any property serviced by the
water utility because of failure to pay sewer or water bills, there shall be
imposed a fee of $30 plus the cost of one hour’s labor for the utility employee
performing the work.
(Ord. 829, passed 5-3-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 967,
passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-
2022)
§ 52.24 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   When a customer’s check is not honored due to insufficient funds, a charge
for processing the same will be made by the utility in the amount of $27.50.
(Ord. 825, passed 2-1-1999; Am. Ord. 916, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 920,
passed 9-8-2004; Am. Ord. 967, passed 1-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1117, passed 12-5-
2016; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Bylaws and regulations of the Board of Public Works and Safety
   
53.003   Right-of-entry of Superintendent and Inspector to any premises
   
53.004   Notification of accidental discharges
   
53.005   Limitations on point of discharge
   
53.006   Special agreements
   
53.007   Damaging or defacing sewage works property
   
53.008   Falsifying information
Sewer Connection Regulations
   
53.020   Private sewage disposal systems restricted
   
53.021   When connection is required
   
53.022   Construction of building or house to lateral sewers
   
53.023   Determining major contributor
   
53.024   Separate sewer requirements
   
53.025   Old building or house lateral sewers
   
53.026   Connection of downspouts, drains and the like
   
53.027   Inspection and supervision of connections
   
53.028   Connections outside corporate limits
   
53.029   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets
   
53.030   Right to prohibit new connections
   
53.031   Violations of wastewater admissibility requirements or terms of major
contributor permits
   
53.032   Introduction of inflow sources prohibited
   
53.033   Construction of new combined sewers prohibited
   
53.034   Private well regulations
   
53.035   Sewer lines constructed by third parties
   
53.036   Backflow prevention devices required
Wastewater Admissibility; Discharge Regulations
   
53.045   Major contributor permits
   
53.046   Major contributor permit applications; fee
   
53.047   Surveillance survey charge
   
53.048   Monitoring of major contributors
   
53.049   Prohibited and restricted discharges
   
53.050   Application of surcharge for certain wastewater concentrations
   
53.051   Prohibition of certain wastewater concentrations
   
53.052   Technological findings
   
53.053   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.054   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment
   
53.055   Right to reject waste
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
53.065   Monthly rates and charges
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall
be as adopted in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in 40 CFR 136. Waste constituents and characteristics shall be
measured by Standard Methods or in any other method established by state or
Federal regulatory agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by
customarily accepted methods.
   BENEFICIAL USES. These include, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal
agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation, aesthetic
enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife
and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible or
intangible, as specified by state or Federal law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). As applied to sewage, sewage effluent,
polluted waters or industrial wastes, is the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
mg/1 required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by
aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for five days
at 20° C. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in standard methods, therein and conventionally referred
to as BOD5.
   BOARD. The City Board of Public Works and Safety. The governing body of the
sewerage system of the city, which system is a public service.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
other property. When separated by a party wall, without opening through the
wall, each portion of the building shall be considered a separate building.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil pipes, waste pipes and other drainage
pipes inside a building and conveys it to a point outside of the building.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (OR COD). As applied to sewage, sewage effluent,
polluted waters or industrial wastes, is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of
that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation
by a strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
   CITY. The City of Tell City, Indiana.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries storm surface or ground water runoff
in addition to sewage.
   CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS (OF WASTEWATER). The chemical, physical,
bacteriological and radiological properties, including volume, flow rate and
any other properties which serve to define, classify or measure the contents,
quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   EFFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutants which are not compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
which is discharged, permitted to flow into or enter the sewerage system from
an industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the
development, recovery or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person, and INDUSTRIAL WASTES shall further mean any waste from an industrial
user, but not including sanitary sewage or storm water.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering die sewerage system directly or via private
sewers, building drains and building sewers connected therewith from the
ground, through means such as, but not limited to, defective pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater entering the sewerage system from
sources such as leaders, cellars, yard areas and foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole areas, cross connections between storm and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm water, surface runoff and
street wastewater or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Board or the Superintendent to perform
inspection duties assigned to him or her by the Board or Superintendent.
   LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewerage system
or other place of disposal.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A user discharging or introducing into the sewerage
system:
      (1)   A flow of more than 50,000 gallons per average workday;
      (2)   A toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in 307 P.L.92-500, as
now adopted or as hereafter amended;
      (3)   A flow or pollutant concentration as now or hereafter defined or
identified as a problem pollutant or flow by applicable state or Federal
regulations or by the Board;
      (4)   An effluent of significant impact, either singly or in combination
with other contributors, on the wastewater treatment plant or the quality of
its effluent; or
      (5)   Any substance unusual or unique in quality or quantity requiring
special attention or processing in order to effect proper wastewater treatment.
   MAY. The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage as discharged by residential users with a
BOD5 concentration not in excess of 275 mg/1 and a suspended solids
concentration not in excess of 2.75 mg/1.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit now or
hereafter held by the city and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NUISANCE. Any substance which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or public or private corporation, or any other
entity whatever.
   PH. The conventional scientific measure of the degree of acidity or
alkalinity.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of water by waste, contaminants or
pollutants to a degree which renders the water unfit for beneficial users.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the city.
   RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The city sewer system.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage such as, and having the characteristics of, domestic
sewage from dwellings including apartment houses and hotels, office buildings,
factories, or institutions free from storm and surface water and industrial
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, government
buildings, industrial buildings and institutions.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances used
for collection, transporting, and pumping wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant, and the wastewater treatment plant itself.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than 0.5 inch
in dimension.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department, subject to the
control of the Board in all matters.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in mg/l.
Quantitative determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in standard methods.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which it is introduced or discharged
into, the sewerage system any substances whatever.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household or industrial consumption and/or rendering services to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial or
administrative activities of Federal, state and local governments, such as
court houses, police and fire stations, city halls and similar governmental
users.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user engaged in the manufacturing, production or
processing of goods, materials or other tangible products.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately owned school, hospital,
nursing home, prison or other similar institution whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from a single-family or multi-family dwelling into the sewerage system.
   WASTE. Sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances, including
liquid, solid, gaseous or radio-active, associated with human habitation, or of
human or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including waste placed within
containers or whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, commercial buildings,
government buildings, institutions and industrial buildings, singular or in any
combination, together with any ground, surface and storm waters as may be
present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
by the city for treatment and disposing of sewage, sludge, and other sewage
constituents and products.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.002 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may adopt and enforce any reasonable
regulations not in conflict herewith as may be deemed necessary for the safe,
economical and efficient management of the city's sewerage system and
wastewater treatment plant, and for the construction and use of building
lateral sewers and connections to the sewerage system, which regulations may
include limitations of or prohibition of introduction of or infiltration by
storm water, surface water and ground water into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.003 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY OF SUPERINTENDENT AND INSPECTOR TO ANY PREMISES.
   The Superintendent, inspector or other duly authorized employee of the city,
upon reasonable notice to any person who is owner, tenant or occupant of any
real estate, is empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper credentials,
all premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measuring, sampling
and testing water, sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.004 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   A user shall notify the Superintendent immediately upon discharging,
accidentally or otherwise, chemicals, corrosive substances, or any other matter
that is or may be deleterious to the sewerage system or treatment process, or
wastewaters in violation of this chapter, to enable countermeasures to be taken
by the city to minimize damage to the sewerage system, treatment processes and
the receiving stream.
   (B)   This notification shall be followed within seven days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed written report, signed by the user, describing the
causes of the discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future similar
occurrences.
   (C)   The notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense,
loss or damage to the sewerage system, wastewater treatment plant or treatment
process, or any fines or penalties imposed by the city, which expense, loss or
damage shall be paid for by the user.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.005 LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the sewerage system other than through the approved building or
house lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this chapter or by
express permission of the Board.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.006 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Special agreements and arrangements between the city and any person within
Perry County may be established by the Board within the terms and intent of
this chapter when, in the opinion of the Board, unusual or extraordinary
circumstances compel special terms and conditions whereby an unusual wastewater
may be accepted for treatment, subject to payment of applicable fees.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.007 DAMAGING OR DEFACING SEWAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.008 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the city a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Board, or
voluntarily file with the intent that the city rely thereon, falsify, tamper
with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring or
timing device required or installed under these regulations.
   (B)   A person shall not, during any monitoring or surveillance period,
alter industrial processes or other activities for the purpose of rendering
samples drawn or measurements taken during the monitoring or surveillance
unrepresentative or uncharacteristic of normal operations, flows or
concentrations of pollutants.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
SEWER CONNECTION REGULATIONS
§ 53.020 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS RESTRICTED.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Board, the city, or the state or any of
its agencies, a person shall not construct or maintain a privy, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater;
except that existing septic tank systems and fields may be repaired and
maintained in accordance with applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 WHEN CONNECTION IS REQUIRED.
   Any person owning or occupying a house or other building for residential,
commercial, institutional, governmental or industrial use, located on any
property situated within the city and abutting on any street alley or easement
in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sewer or
combined sewer of the city, is required at his or her expense to install
suitable wastewater facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
or any other ordinance, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so,
provided that the public sewer is within 150 feet of the property line. The
persons shall not discharge sewage elsewhere than into the sewage system.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the connection of any
structure to a sewer if wastewater is not generated in the structure.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING OR HOUSE TO LATERAL SEWERS.
   (A)   The size, shape, alignment, materials or construction of a building or
house lateral sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall conform to the requirements
of the city.
   (B)   Material for the building sewer shall be PVC pipe not less than six
inches in diameter with a wall thickness of at least 0.280 inches. All lateral
sewer lines (the sewer line connecting a dwelling or other building to the
city's sewer line) shall be constructed with a clean-out designed to gain
access to said sewer line from above ground, which clean-out shall be located
no further than five feet from the building which such sewer line serves.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.023 DETERMINING MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR.
   Each commercial and industrial user shall supply the city with information
about expected wastewater constituents and characteristics to be used in
determining whether or not the user will be a major contributor.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.024 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   A separate and independent building or house lateral sewer shall be provided
for every building or house; except where one building or house stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building or house through an adjoining alley, court,
yard or driveway. In these cases, the building or house lateral sewer from the
front building or house may be extended to the rear building or house, and the
whole considered as one building or house lateral sewer. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to apply to lateral sewer connections between
different facilities of an industrial user located on contiguous properties.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.025 OLD BUILDING OR HOUSE LATERAL SEWERS.
   (A)   Old building or house lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings or houses only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by the inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever reasonably possible, the building or house lateral sewer
shall be brought to the building or house at an elevation below the basement
floor. In all buildings or houses in which any building or house drain is too
low to permit gravity flow to the appropriate public sewer, wastewater carried
by the building or house drain shall be lifted by an appropriate means and
discharged to the building or house lateral sewer.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026 CONNECTION OF DOWNSPOUTS, DRAINS AND THE LIKE.
   No user shall hereafter connect or reconnect roof downspouts, footing
drains, areaway drains, driveways, parking lots or other sources of surface,
runoff or groundwater to a building or house lateral sewer or building or house
drain which is in turn connected directly or indirectly to the sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.027 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION OF CONNECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building or house lateral sewer permit shall notify
the Board or its designated representative when a building or house lateral
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the sewerage system. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector or his or her
representative using materials and techniques conforming to the requirements of
the Board. The applicant shall give notice before the burial or covering of the
lateral sewer, and shall not cover or bury the sewer until the inspection is
completed and the connection approved.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.028 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   A person shall not directly or indirectly make any connections with or
openings into the sewerage system for the purpose of serving any areas outside
the corporate boundaries of the city without first securing a specific
resolution of the Board describing the real estate and property to be served
and authorizing the connection.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.029 PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any areas under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.030 RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The city shall have the right to prohibit new connections when the excess
capacity of the sewerage system is deemed insufficient by the Board to
accommodate the expected flow, BOD, suspended solids or other constituents of
wastewater discharged by the prospective sewer user.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.031 VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS OR TERMS OF MAJOR
CONTRIBUTOR PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board shall have the following methods of recourse in the event of
repeated or willful failure by a user to meet the wastewater admissibility
requirements provided in this chapter.
      (1)   When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater has been talcing
place in violation of the admissibility requirements of this chapter or the
provisions of a major contributor permit, the city may require the user to
submit for approval a detailed time schedule of specific actions, acceptable to
the Board, which the user shall take in order to prevent or correct a violation
of requirements.
      (2)   When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater has taken place
or is likely to take place in violation of the admissibility requirements of
this chapter or a major contributor permit, the Board may issue an order to
cease and desist, and may direct that the user not complying with the
requirements to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith;
         (b)   Comply with a time schedule set forth by the Board; or
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action.
      (3)   When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater is in violation
of the admissibility requirements of this chapter or the provisions of a major
contributor permit, or otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of
pollution or nuisance, the board on behalf of the city, may petition any court
of proper jurisdiction for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction, or both, as may be appropriate, in restraining the continuance of
the discharge.
      (4)   The city may revoke any major contributor permit or terminate or
cause to be terminated wastewater service, in whole or in part, if a violation
of any provisions of this chapter or the major contributor permit is found to
exist, or if a discharge causes or threatens to cause a condition of pollution
or nuisance as defined in this chapter, or causes the city to violate the terms
of its NPDES permit or any state or Federal law or regulations.
      (5)   Any user affected by any decision, action or determination,
including cease and desist orders, made by the Superintendent interpreting or
implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued herein, or any
action, decision or regulation of the Board adopted pursuant thereto, may file
with the Board a written request for review and reconsideration within ten days
of the decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail the facts
supporting the user's request for reconsideration. The appeal shall, if
reasonably possible, be heard by the Board within 30 days from the date of
filing. The Superintendent's decision, action or determination shall remain in
effect during the period of reconsideration unless the Board otherwise
determines on request of the user.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall have and the Board may exercise all other
legally available remedies.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.032 INTRODUCTION OF INFLOW SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   No user of the sewer system shall introduce any inflow sources to any
sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 670, passed 12-4-1989; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.033 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW COMBINED SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   The city hereby prohibits construction of any new combined sewers within the
city sewerage system. The city further requires that any new construction as a
tributary to an existing combined sewer be designed to minimize or delay inflow
contribution to the existing combined sewer. Furthermore, the city hereby
requires that for any new building constructed the inflow/clearwater connection
to a combined sewer shall be made separate and distinct from the sanitary
wastewater connection to facilitate disconnection of the former if a separate
storm sewer subsequently becomes available.
(Ord. 670, passed 12-4-1989; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.034 PRIVATE WELL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of real estate within the corporate limits of
the city or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer or other means or
path of direct or indirect flow into the sewerage system shall report the
existence of any well to the Superintendent. The information furnished by the
owner or occupant shall include, among other hems, the name of the owner and
occupant of the real estate, the location on the real estate of the well, the
size of the well pipe, the size, including voltage, amperage and horsepower
where ascertainable, of the well pump motor, and the purpose for which the well
water is used by the owner, occupant or others.
   (B)   The Board shall determine by any reasonable means, including, but not
limited to. the use of water meters and timing devices, the flow of the well in
order to determine the amount of sewage entering the sewage system. The owner
or occupant of the real estate shall pay for the metering device, which shall
be of a type approved by the Board, and which shall remain the property of the
owner but shall be under the exclusive control of the Board and shall not under
any circumstances be tampered with by the owner, occupant or any other person.
In the case of wells for household use only the Board may, in lieu of metering
or timing the use of the well, provide for use of reasonable estimates
regarding water volume.
   (C)   The Board may direct the Superintendent, inspector or any other
employee to enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting to
determine the existence of private wells, to oversee or to direct the
installation of metering or timing devices, and to read the meters and devices.
   (D)   A person shall not hereafter dig or drive a well within the city
limits without first making application therefore to the Superintendent, which
application shall be on a form approved by the Board and shall show all
pertinent data regarding size and flow. The application shall be signed by both
the installer of the well, meaning the contractor or other person doing the
work, and the owner or his or her agent other than the installer. The failure
to file the application shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.035 SEWER LINES CONSTRUCTED BY THIRD PARTIES.
   The following policy is hereby adopted for use by the city and the board in
the acceptance for ownership, operation, and maintenance, of any sanitary sewer
line or facilities constructed by a third party, as follows:
   (A)   The person or entity desiring to construct such sanitary sewer lines
or facilities shall, prior to the commencement of any construction activities,
contact the Superintendent and shall provide the Superintendent with such
information, including plats and drawings, as the Superintendent determines, in
his or her sole discretion, is reasonably necessary or convenient to make a
determination as to the circumstances under which such proposed sewer lines or
facilities may or may not be accepted by the city for its ownership, operation
and maintenance.
   (B)   The Superintendent may, in his or her sole discretion, determine to
seek the advice and input of such engineers and other professionals, on behalf
of the city, as the Superintendent determines is necessary in order to make
determinations pursuant to this section. If the Superintendent decides to seek
the advice or input of such professionals, he or she shall obtain a cost
estimate therefor, and forward the cost estimate to the person or entity
desiring to construct such sanitary sewer lines or facilities, and such persons
shall thereupon be responsible for the reimbursement to the city of all of its
costs in obtaining the advice or input of such professionals.
   (C)   Upon review, by the Superintendent and such outside professionals as
the Superintendent determines to use pursuant to division (B), of the materials
submitted by the person desiring to make the construction of such sewer lines
or facilities, and upon such further review and investigation as may be made by
the Superintendent or the professionals hired by him or her, a determination
shall be made as to whether the proposal by the person desiring to build such
sanitary line or facility is suitable, and if not, what changes, alterations,
or additions need to be made to the same. Upon the person desiring to construct
such line or facilities making the changes, alterations or additions proposed
by the Superintendent, the Superintendent shall then make a recommendation to
the board and the city as to whether such sewer line or facility should be
accepted by the city, following its construction, for ownership, operation and
maintenance by the city.
   (D)   Upon the Board making a preliminary determination of the acceptance of
such sewer line, construction of the same may commence.
   (E)   All construction work shall be inspected by the Superintendent or his
or her designee and therefore, all installations must remain exposed until
inspected and approved by the Superintendent or his or her designee. If any
installation does not remain exposed until such inspection, the Superintendent
may require the installation to be uncovered and exposed for inspection.
   (F)   The city and the Board reserve the right to oversee installation and
approval of all materials used in the sewer line construction and reserves the
right to change procedures and material type at any time during the period of
construction, if in the sole opinion of the Superintendent, conditions warrant
the change.
   (G)   Upon completion of the construction in such manner as approved by the
Superintendent, the person or entity constructing the line shall post with the
city a bond, with sureties thereon approved by the city, in an amount deemed
necessary or reasonable by the city to cover all repair and replacement
expenditures on such sewer line for a period of one year. Upon such bond being
posted, the city will then make a determination as to the rates and charges to
be made to the users of such sewer line, and upon such determination being made
and agreed to by the person or entity installing the line, and the posting of
the aforesaid bond, the city may thereupon accept the ownership, operation and
maintenance of such sewer line or facility.
(Ord. 939, passed 8-15-2005; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.036 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   For any new building construction occurring after the date of the passage of
this section, and for all repairs and replacements of sanitary sewer lines in
existing buildings, all sanitary sewer drain lines located within a building
below the natural grade line of said building shall have installed therein a
backflow prevention device, the nature of the device and the location of the
device to be approved by the Sewage Department upon application for such
determination made by the person constructing such sanitary sewer drain line.
(Ord. 1141, passed 4-2-2018)
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY; DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 53.045 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Any industrial user and any other user identified by the board shall
provide the city with sufficient information to determine if he or she is a
major contributor. Any user determined to be a major contributor shall be
required to obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and
characteristics allowed, and which sets forth the applicable surveillance
schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order
to discharge into the sewerage system. A major contributor permit shall be
valid for four years unless processing changes are made that, in the opinion of
the superintendent or board, alter the wastewater constituents and
characteristics significantly. In the event of this change, a new application
shall be filed accordingly. A permit may be renewed without reapplication at
the end of four years at the discretion of the city.
   (B)   Nothing in a major contributor permit shall constitute an exception to
the prohibitions and limitations on wastewater admissibility as set forth
herein. Major contributors are subject to all applicable fees, rates and
charges set forth in the city's current sewer rate ordinance.
   (C)   The holder of any NPDES permit from the state shall file with the
Superintendent a copy of each report or application the permit holder files
with the state, and the copy is to be filed with the city not later than three
business days after the filing with the appropriate state authority. Each user
who applies to the state for an NPDES permit shall similarly file a copy of the
application and all supporting documents with the city within the three-day
time period.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.046 MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR PERMIT APPLICATIONS; FEE.
   (A)   Major contributors shall make application for the proposed discharge
on a form provided by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, studies or other information considered pertinent by
the Board.
   (B)   Major contributors shall pay an initial major contributor permit fee
of $100 for connection to the sewage works.
   (C)   To establish a feasible surveillance schedule, the following class of
major contributors are formed:
 
Class Qualification                               Minimum Surveillance Schedule
A     Flow of 100,000 gallons per day or more per Quarterly
      average workday
      Flow from 40,000 to 100,000 gallons per
B     average workday or discharge with           Semiannually
      constituents or characteristics that result
      in a major contributor classification
 
   (D)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of seven
consecutive days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of
the Board or Superintendent. In cases where the surveillance periods extend for
a greater number of consecutive days than seven, the city shall have the
prerogative of selecting the seven consecutive days of its choice for
establishing rates and charges, as provided for in the sewer rate ordinance.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.047 SURVEILLANCE SURVEY CHARGE.
   (A)   The charge for each surveillance survey shall be $20 per day with a
maximum charge for seven days of $140. The Board may adopt a schedule of lower,
but not higher surveillance fees, and may waive surveillance fees in proper
instances, particularly when surveillance is to detect or determine improper
discharge found not to exist.
   (B)   Where the industry has an ongoing pretreatment facility or system
approved by the state or by the Board there will be no surveillance fee, unless
the Board finds that the user of the pretreatment facility or system has
repeatedly violated the effluent standards applicable to the user.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.048 MONITORING OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS.
   (A)   A major contributor shall install, at its own expense, a suitable
control manhole or other access means, together with any necessary
appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastewater, and any sampling devices as may be
reasonably necessary, all unless otherwise instructed by the city. A user may
be required by the city to install the manholes or other access means to verify
his or her status as a major contributor or otherwise. The manholes or other
access means and sampling and testing devices shall be constructed and
maintained to the city's satisfaction at the expense of the user. The city
shall have the right of access to the manhole and sampling and testing devices
at all times in order to verify the accuracy of the equipment and obtain
samples.
   (B)   The city may provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period
for control manholes or other access means.
   (C)   Monitoring equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the city,
include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require sewer access or sampling
equipment for lateral sewers of facilities in which no industrial wastes are
generated or disposed of in the sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.049 PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to the sewerage system wastes which cause,
threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone or by interaction
with other substances, any of the following occurrences:
      (1)   Fire or explosion;
      (2)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
operation of the plant;
      (3)   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   Inhibition of biological activity in the plant resulting in
interference due to the discharge of heat, but in no case may heat be
discharged in quantities so that the temperature at the treatment works
influent exceeds 40° C;
      (5)   A nuisance or hindrance of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewerage system, such as that having an unusually strong or unpleasant
odor;
      (6)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or unusually malodorous gases
or malodorous gas-producing substances;
      (7)   Corrosive or structural damage to the sewerage system, but in no
case discharges with a pH lower than 5.0; and/or
      (8)   The wastewater treatment plant's effluent or any other product of
tiie treatment process, residues, sludge or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, disposal, or to interfere with the reclamation process, or to fail
to meet any of the limitations set by the Federal or state agency or the terms
of the city's NPDES permit.
   (B)   Unpolluted water shall not be discharged through direct or indirect
connection to the sewerage system. Limitations on the amount of unpolluted
water that is discharged shall be part of the major contributor's permit.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to a discharged any radioactive
waste into the sewerage system.
   (D)   Only properly shredded garbage, as defined in this ordinance, may be
discharged into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.050 APPLICATION OF SURCHARGE FOR CERTAIN WASTEWATER CONCENTRATIONS.
   (A)   A surcharge shall apply to all constituents and characteristics which
singularly or in combination may damage structures, impair the operation of the
wastewater treatment plant, interfere with the treatment process or impair the
quality of the receiving stream or its tributaries including, but not limited
to, the constituents and characteristics set forth in division (B) below, with
maximum concentration set forth therein.
   (B)   Any person discharging wastewater with pollutants in excess of the
following concentrations shall be subject to a surcharge as specified in the
city's sewer rate ordinance.
      (1)   A BOD5 concentration in excess of 275 mg/1; or
      (2)   For COD (where BOD5 cannot be determined) (in excess of 550 mg/1);
and
      (3)   A suspended solids concentration in excess of 275 mg/1.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.051 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN WASTEWATER CONCENTRATIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not discharge any wastewater containing waste
concentration in excess of those allowed under the applicable national
pretreatrnent standards.
   (B)   If no pretreatrnent standard exists, the following concentration
prohibitions shall apply, unless modified by the Board:
      (1)   A temperature higher than 150° F (65.5° C);
      (2)   A pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0;
      (3)   0.20 mg/l; cadmium;
      (4)   0.25 mg/l hexavalent chromium (Cr, VI) for one day, or 0.09 mg/
l hexavalent chromium for any 30-consecutive day average;
      (5)   2 mg/l copper;
      (6)   0.20 mg/l cyanide amenable to chlorination (CN, A) for one day, or
0.08 mg/l cyanide amenable to chlorination for any 30-consecutive day average;
      (7)   0.64 mg/l cyanide, total (CN, T) for one day, or 0.24 mg/l cyanide
total for any 30-consecutive day average;
      (8)   1.00 mg/l lead;
      (9)   0.20 mg/l mercury;
      (10)   0.80 mg/l nickel;
      (11)   0.10 mg/l silver;
      (12)   1 mg/l zinc;
      (13)   200 mg/l oil and grease of animal or vegetable origin;
      (14)   100 mg/l oil and grease of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (15)   1 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's
wastewater treatment process;
      (16)   Other concentrations than stated above are prohibited if
applicable state or Federal regulations or regulations of the Board set
different maximum concentrations;
      (17)   Any other substance or concentration thereof prohibited to all
users or classes of users by state or Federal law, or regulation now or
hereafter adopted by the Board; and/or
      (18)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the treatment plant.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 724, passed 1-18-1993; Am. Ord. 730,
passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 TECHNOLOGICAL FINDINGS.
   The limitations imposed in this ordinance are found by the Common Council to
be those attainable by the best practical technology. Limitations adopted by
the Board shall in all cases be based on the best practical technology.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.053 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at all
restaurants, and at all industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the
opinion of the Board, they are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes or
sand and other harmful inert materials.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be approved by the Board and shall be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be installed and maintained by the user, at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.054 LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all reasonable times
be open to inspection and testing by the Board.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
§ 53.055 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE.
   The city shall have the right to reject waste and prohibit the introduction
of rejected waste into the sewerage system, or the city may require
pretreatment of the waste when the strength or character of the waste could
cause damage to or interfere with the operation of the sewerage system.
(Ord. 599, passed 12-3-1984; Am. Ord. 1130, passed 11-30-2017)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.065 MONTHLY RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use and service rendered by the sewage works, sewer charges
shall be collected from the person who owns each and every parcel of real
estate that is connected directly or indirectly to the city’s sewage system or
otherwise discharges wastewater either directly or indirectly into the sewage
system of the city, which sewer charges shall be payable as provided below:
      (1)   Monthly fee based on meter size.
Meter Size         Base Rate
5/8 inch meter     $10.50
1 inch meter       24.60
1¼ - 1½ inch mete48.10
2 inch meter       95.10
3 inch meter       217.30
4 inch meter       377.10
6 inch meter       856.50
8 inch meter       1,523.90
10 inch meter      2,379.30
 
   (2)   Plus, the following flow charges:
 
Consumption per Month                              Rate per 1,000 Gallons
All users (other than Waupaca, Cannelton and Troy) $8.95
                                                  Phase I Phase II
Waupaca                                            $5.00   $3.65
Wholesale - Cannelton                              $2.77   $3.25
Wholesale - Troy                                   $2.77   $3.25
 
      Phase I rates shall become effective upon passage of this section. Phase
II rates shall become effective and apply to usage in March of 2019 and appear
in billings in April of 2019.
   (B)   There shall be and are hereby established for use of sewage treatment
and collection services the following excessive strength surcharges:
      (1)   Excessive strength surcharges. Normal sewage domestic waste
strength should not exceed a biochemical oxygen demand (“BOD”) of 275
milligrams per liter of fluid, chemical oxygen demand (“COD”), where BOD cannot
be determined, of 550 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids (“SS”)
in excess of 275 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis:
 
Excess Strength Surcharges                           Rate Per Pound
BOD (in excess of 275 mg/l)                          $0.28
COD where BOD cannot be determined (in excess of 550 0.28
mg/l)
SS (in excess of 275 mg/l)                           0.28
 
   (C)   For all property outside the corporate limits of the city, the
ratepayers for such property shall also pay a surcharge of 15% with the
surcharge being applied to the total monthly bill of such ratepayer.
   (D)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments
or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into
city’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of
water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in
that case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be the total
quantity of water measured by the meter. Separate bills will not be issued for
each unit. (One bill per meter will be issued).
   (E)   (1)   A Wastewater Adjustment Committee (“Committee”) shall be
established with the following members: Mayor, Wastewater Representative and a
Council Member who will review and make determinations on any wastewater
adjustment request. The Mayor will designate the Wastewater Representative and
the Council Member to serve on the Committee.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the “Summer Season” shall be
defined as May 1 through August 31.
      (3)   A wastewater adjustment request may be submitted for the following
occurrences:
         (a)   In the case of excessive water usage for filling swimming pools,
one filling event per season, unless the user can prove the pool required
draining for repair and was refilled during the summer season, may be granted
an adjustment for the summer season if the usage is more than 20% above their
average monthly usage based on the period of time from January through March of
the current year. User must substantiate to the Committee that all or a portion
of all excess water usage did not and cannot enter the wastewater system.
         (b)   In the case of excessive water usage for watering gardens,
lawns, or irrigation/sprinkling systems, may be granted an adjustment for the
summer season with one request if the usage is more than 20% above their
average monthly usage based on the period of time from January through March of
the current year. User must substantiate to the Committee that all or a portion
of excess water usage did not and cannot enter the wastewater system.
         (c)   In the case of excessive water usage from a leak, an equipment
malfunction or failure, or other extraordinary event, an adjustment may be
granted if the usage is more than 20% above their average monthly usage, based
on the immediate previous three month period of time. User must substantiate to
the Committee that all or a portion of the excess water usage did not and
cannot enter the wastewater system. The Committee shall determine the
appropriate wastewater charge and may approve a payment plan and adjust
penalties to assist in facilitating the payment of the usage.
         (d)   In the case of a commercial or industrial user, an adjustment
may be granted only if flow- meter measurement equipment is utilized to
substantiate to the Committee that all or a portion of the excess water usage
did not and cannot enter the wastewater system.
      (4)   Flow-meter measurement equipment is required for commercial and
industrial users, as set forth in division (E)(3)(d). It may be installed at
the option of other users for the purpose of this section. The equipment must
be maintained in serviceable condition at user’s expense. The city and
Wastewater Department strongly recommend the equipment be installed by a
licensed plumber. City Wastewater Department personnel shall have the right to
access the flow-meter measurement equipment at all times in order to verify the
accuracy of the equipment.
      (5)   A detailed report will be provided to the Board of Public Works and
Safety, who shall retain the authority to recommend or modify any action deemed
appropriate.
      (6)   Payment due dates and normal penalties still apply to the user. Any
adjustment made to the billed amount will appear on a future billing cycle
based on the Committee’s recommendation.
   (F)   The sewer charges may be billed to the tenants occupying the premises
served, unless otherwise instructed in writing by the person who owns the
premises. The billings shall in no way relieve the owner of liability in the
event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of the premises served
which are occupied by tenants shall have the right to examine the collection
records of the city for the purpose of determining whether the sewer charges
have been paid by the tenants; provided that the examination shall be made at
the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that the office
is open for business.
   (G)   For the service rendered to any department or agency of the city
except the Sewer Department, the city shall be subject to the sewer charges
provided herein.
   (H)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
city in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (1)   Sewer billings and invoices shall be rendered and collected
monthly.
      (2)   The Board may, on proper cause being shown by the applicant that in
a singular occurrence metered water did not reach the sewerage system, adjust
the user’s sewer charge with respect to the occurrence.
   (I)   (1)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building
connecting to the sewage works shall, prior to being permitted to make a
connection, pay a charge for connection known as the “Sewage Treatment Capacity
Fee” as follows:
         (a)   Inside city corporate limits:   $1,500
         (b)   Outside city corporate limits:   $1,725
      (2)   The above Sewage Treatment Capacity Fees shall increase annually by
2%, beginning January 1, 2019 and thereafter on each January 1. In addition,
each connection shall be subject to inspection and shall be charged an
inspection fee of $15.
   (J)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (K)   In the event that it is necessary to institute any proceedings to
collect any past due amount, then the owner of the property shall be
responsible for all collection costs, fees, reasonable attorney fees, court
costs or other expenses incurred by the city.
   (L)   The fees for the services rendered by the said sewage works are hereby
found to be just, equitable, and required to maintain the said sewage works in
the sound physical and financial condition necessary to render adequate and
efficient services, and based upon the rate study.
   (M)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the city shall cause a study to be made and
presented to the Common Council so that the rates and charges of the city’s
sewage works are reviewed and revised, if necessary. The city will cause such
study to be made at least every three years.
(Ord. 1136, passed 2-19-2018; Am. Ord. 1145, passed 6-4-2018; Am. Ord. 1147,
passed 8-6-2018)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter may a
served by the Board with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (B)   Any user who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a infraction, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined. Each day in
which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Board for any expense, loss or damage, including attorneys' fees,
occasioned the Board by reason of the violation.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall restrict any right which may be provided
by statute or common law to the agency to bring other actions, at law or at
equity.
(Ord. 600, passed 12-3-1984)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Objectives; applicability
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Administration
   
54.04   Confidential information
   54.05   Brushy Hollow wastewater collection system
Sewer Use and Pretreatment Regulations
   
54.15   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.16   Abnormal waste surcharge
   
54.17   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
54.18   Local limits
   
54.19   City’s right of revision
   
54.20   Dilution
   
54.21   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
54.22   Wastewater discharge permits; interjurisdictional agreements
   
54.23   Pretreatment charges and fees
Reporting Requirements
   
54.35   Baseline monitoring reports
   
54.36   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
54.37   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
54.38   Periodic compliance reports
   
54.39   Reports of changed conditions
   
54.40   Reports of potential problems
   
54.41   Reports from unpermitted users
   
54.42   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
54.43   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
54.44   Analytical requirements
   
54.45   Sample collection
   
54.46   Timing
   
54.47   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
54.60   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
54.61   Search warrants
   
54.62   Public noticing of SNC discharges
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
54.75   Notification of violation
   
54.76   Agreed orders
   
54.77   Show cause hearing
   
54.78   Compliance orders
   
54.79   Cease and desist orders
   
54.80   Administrative fines
   
54.81   Emergency suspension
   
54.82   Termination of discharge
   
54.83   Public nuisances
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
54.95   Injunctive relief
   
54.96   Civil penalties
   
54.97   Remedies nonexclusive
Pretreatment Program Enforcement Response Plan
   
54.105   Introduction
   
54.106   Purpose
   
54.107   Administration and jurisdiction
   
54.108   Abbreviations and definitions
   
54.109   Personnel responsibilities
   
54.110   Identifying and investigating instances of noncompliance
   
54.111   Description of enforcement actions
   
54.112   Enforcement response guide
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 OBJECTIVES; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatments works for the city, and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act, the same
being 33 USC 1251 et seq., and the General Pretreatment Regulations, the same
being 40 CFR Part 403. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the costs of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, the same being 33 USC 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The regional administration of U.S. EPA Region V.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
         (a)   If the user is a corporation:
            1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         (c)   If the user is a federal, state or local government facility, a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in division (a), (b), and (c) above
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, if the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible
for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates,
or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the Board.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20° C, usually expressed as a concentration, such as mg/l.
      BOARD. The City Board of Public Works and Safety, or any other duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act, which apply to a specific category of users
and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      CITY. The City of Tell City, under the jurisdiction of the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
      CLEAR WATER FLOW. Groundwater or precipitation related water which enters
the sanitary sewer collection system through pipe defects (infiltration) or
conduits (inflow).
      COMPOSITE SAMPLING. A method of sampling which weighs sample volume with
discharge flow rate.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Board of Public Works and Safety.
      COUNCIL. The City Common Council.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Region V Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of the agency.
      EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation
of which commenced prior to the publication by the EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to the source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of
the Act.
      INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum
concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of
the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and therefore
is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title 11, commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to the source if the
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other discharge source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating process of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (a)2. or 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to an
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined herein, has commenced
if the owner or operator has begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous
on-site construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment;
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            3.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the PTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit (In 0024392), including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. PERSON includes all federal, state and local governmental entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
      POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater, for example, pH, temperature,
TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing the pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, by process changes, or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances. These prohibitions
appear in §
54.15.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292), which is owned by the city. PUBLICLY
OWNED TREATMENT WORKS includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature, and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial, and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SEWAGE.  Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dish washing
operations and the like).
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
         (a)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   A user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater at the POTW, excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blow
down wastewater;
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as the same by the Board on the basis that it
has reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation, or for
violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement.
         (c)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (b)
above has reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Board may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user,
and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that the
user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). For compliance provisions of this
chapter, SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC) is defined as follows:
         (a)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits, further defined as
follows:
               1.   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS. Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a
six-month period;
               2.   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC). Thirty-three percent or
more of the measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit by more than the TRC in a six-month period. There are two groups
of TRC's:
                  a.   Group I for conventional pollutants (BOD5, COD, TSS,
fats, oil and grease). TRC = 1.4 (40%); and
                  b.   Group II for all other pollutants. TRC = 1.2 (20%).
               3.   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or
daily maximum) that the Wastewater Superintendent believes has caused, along or
in combination with other discharges, interference such as slug loads or pass-
through; or endangered the health of the sewage treatment personnel or the
public; and/or
               4.   Any discharge of a pollutant which has caused imminent
endangerment to human health or welfare or to the environment, and resulted in
the POTW's exercise of this emergency authority to halt or prevent the
discharge;
         (b)   Violation of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
local control mechanism or enforcement order, for starting construction,
completing construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after
the schedule date;
         (c)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-
monitoring date or categorical standards (baseline monitoring reports, 90-day
compliance reports and periodic reports) within 30 days from due date;
         (d)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and/or
         (e)   Any other violation or group of violations which the utilities
manager considers to be significant.
      SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which
could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
54.15.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant
to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from the precipitation, including snow melt.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is an unintentional
incident and temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards
because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An
upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or
careless or improper operation.
      USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of discharge to the municipal sewer
system.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Board of Public Works and
Safety who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter,
or a duly authorized representative.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
       WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall
have the meanings designated below.
      BOD5. Biochemical oxygen demand; five-day.
      CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, D.C.
      EPA REG. V. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region V, Chicago,
Illinois.
      FOG. Fats, Oil and Grease.
      GPD. Gallons per day.
      I.C. Indiana Code.
      I/I. Inflow and Infiltration (clear water flow).
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      O&G. Oil and grease.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIC. Standard industrial classification.
      SIU. Significant industrial user.
      SNC. Significant noncompliance.
      TSS. Total suspended solids.
      USC.  United States Code.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer, implement
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties
imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent to other
city personnel.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.04 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs, and from the Wastewater Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent that the release of the information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law. Any request of this kind must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that the information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined by 40 CFR
2.302, will not be recognized as confidential information and will not be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.05 BRUSHY HOLLOW WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   There shall be no additional users, in addition to those users
currently using said system, allowed on the Brushy Hollow wastewater collection
system.
   (B)   The Sewer Department of the city shall not allow any additional users
to connect to the Brushy Hollow wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 1111, passed 9-6-16)
SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
§ 54.15 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which cause pass through or interference. These general
prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they are subject to
categorical pretreatment standards or by any other national, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flash point of
less than 140° F (60° C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. Total suspended solids level
in excess of 250 mg/l daily average may be subject to a surcharge pursuant to §
54.16;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants such as BOD and
the like, released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW. BOD levels in excess of 200 mg/l daily average may
be subject to a surcharge pursuant to §
54.16;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140° F (60° C) or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperatures at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104° F (40° C) ;
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW sewers, including in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artisan well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test; and/or
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (C)   A user may not allow an upset of pretreatment system bypass unless the
event is unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury or severe
property damage.
   (D)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in a manner so that they could be discharged to the
POTW.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.16 ABNORMAL WASTE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   In the event the Approving Authority excludes a customer from the
requirements of §
54.16 and the customer discharges abnormal industrial wastes to the public
sanitary sewerage system having an average total suspended solids content in
excess of 250 mg/l and/or an average of 5-day BOD in excess of 200 mg/l and/or
COD in excess of 400 mg/l, the customer shall pay a surcharge based upon the
excess strength of his or her wastes.
   (B)   The costs of treatment for each pound of BOD and/or suspended solids
removed by the treatment works shall be calculated and reviewed by the city at
the end of each fiscal year (January). If a discrepancy exists between the
actual costs as found by the city and the estimated costs, the Approving
Authority may increase or decrease the surcharge rates sufficiently to cover
only the projected actual costs for the ensuing year.
   (C)   No reduction in sewerage service charges, fees or taxes will be
permitted because of the fact that certain industrial wastes discharged to the
public sanitary sewer system contain less than 250 mg/l of suspended solids or
200 mg/l BOD.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.17 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment if the
user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in 40 CFR
403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from
the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical pretreatment
standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.18 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limitations are established to protect against
pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following daily maximum concentrations based upon a 24-hour
composite sample. Additionally, no person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following maximum concentration times a multiplier of 1.5
based upon a grab sample. The 1.5 grab sample multiplier does not apply to hex.
chromium, cyanide and phenols in that analytical procedures do not allow for
composite techniques to be applied to these parameters. For hex. chromium,
cyanide and phenols, three grab sample results shall be analyzed with results
not to exceed the following noted limitations:
      (1)   0.08 mg/l arsenic (total);
      (2)   400 mg/l BOD (daily maximum);
      (3)   550 mg/l COD (daily maximum)
      (4)   0.025 mg/l cadmium (total)1;
      (5)   3.0 mg/l hex. chromium1;
      (6)   800 mg/l chloride;
      (7)   3.0 mg/l total chromium1;
      (8)   250 mg/l total suspended solids (daily maximum);
      (9)   0.233 mg/l copper1;
      (10)   0.074 mg/l cyanide (total)1;
      (11)   0.17 mg/l lead (total)1;
      (12)   0.005 mg/l mercury (total)1;
      (13)   0.06 mg/l molybdenum2
      (14)   0.30 mg/l nickel1;
      (15)   100 mg/l oil and grease;
      (16)   1.00 mg/l phenols;
      (17)   0.08 mg/l selenium;
      (18)   2.13 mg/l TTO;
      (19)   0.5 mg/l zinc (total)2
   (B)   In divisions (A)(1) through (19) above, 1 indicates that the
limitation is derived from a waste load model based upon 1990 State Water
Quality Standards, and 2 indicates that the limitation is derived from a waste
load model based upon Federal Sludge Regulations, the same being 40 CFR Part
503.
   (C)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose limitations in
addition to, or in place of, the concentration based limitations above.
   (D)   Upon the promulgation of the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard (NCPS) for a particular user, the standard, if more stringent then the
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that category shall, when
effective, immediately supersede the limitations and conditions imposed under
this chapter. The Wastewater Superintendent shall notify all known affected
users of the applicable permitting and reporting requirements under 40 CFR
403.12.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.19 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The Board reserves the right to establish, by ordinance, more stringent
standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.20 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.21 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter, and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in this chapter within
the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the Superintendent,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans
describing the facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
the facilities are constructed. The review of the plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and any other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (E)   Users which operate vehicular wash facilities shall provide, operate
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Superintendent to control
solids and preclude the discharge of toxins to the POTW.
   (F)   Users which operate food preparation facilities shall provide, operate
and maintain pretreatment facilities approved by the Superintendent to control
the discharge of greases, fats, oils and food solids to the POTW.
   (G)   At least once every two years, the Superintendent shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge slug
control plan. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement the plan. Alternatively, the Superintendent may develop
the plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge as required by §
54.40; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. The procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.22 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS; INTERJURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the
request. The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose
and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the State
Department of Environmental Management.
   (C)   If another municipality or sewer district contributes wastewater to
the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an intermunicipal or
interdistrict agreement with the contributing entity.
   (D)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (C) above,
the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing entity:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing entity;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing entity
that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Any other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (E)   An agreement, as required by division (C) above, shall contain the
following conditions:
      (1)    A requirement for the contributing entity to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter, and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
54.18. The requirement shall specify that the ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city's ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing entity to submit a revised user
inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent, and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing entity to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing entity
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, qualify, and volume of the contributing
entity's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing entity's discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing entity's jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary by
the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal or interdistrict agreement.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.23 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The Board may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the costs of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (B)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (C)   Fees for filing appeals; and/or
   (D)   Other fees as the Board may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees related solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.35 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6 (a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to the commencement of
their discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard shall
submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in
division (B) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner;
      (2)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production and
standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by the
user. This description should include a schematic process diagram which
indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
      (4)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out
in 40 CFR 403.6(3) ;
      (5)   The following information concerning the measurement of pollutants:
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process, instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
54.36; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
54.45. Sampling and analysis may be performed by the POTW in lieu of the
industrial user. Where the POTW itself collects all of the information reburied
for a reporting requirement, the significant industrial user will not be
required to submit the report.
      (6)   A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized representative and
certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to
meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment and/or O&M shall be provided. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
54.36;
      (8)   All baseline monitoring reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with Section 4.6.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.36 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
54.35(B)(7):
      (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading in the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. These events include, but are not limited
to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, project
status reports, beginning operation, and attaining compliance;
      (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.37 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to the pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in this chapter.
   (B)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report
shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production rate. For
all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production, or other measure
of operation, this report shall include the user's actual production during the
appropriate sampling period.
   (C)   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
Section 4.6.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.38 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year, in June and
December, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants
in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards, and the measured
or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. All
periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
Section 4.6.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in §
54.45, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.39 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
      (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit any information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application, under §
54.22.
      (B)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
54.22 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under Section 5.4 in
response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.40 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
the damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause the discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.41 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.42 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Superintendent
monitors at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the Superintendent
samples between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.43 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. The notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of the waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent the information is known
and readily available to the user; an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of the constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under the conditions of this chapter. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards following the
self-monitoring requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Discharges are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than
these quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA,
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) of the discharge of
the substance within 90 days of the effective date of the regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.44 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as a
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
  § 54.45 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is not feasible, the Superintendent may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of three grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples of oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides
and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.46 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.47 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain and
make available, for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of the requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed, who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of the
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 54.60 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or his or her agent shall have the right to enter
the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder.
   (B)   Users shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent or his or her agent will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his or her agent shall have the right to set
up on the user's property, or require installation of any devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devises used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated at a minimum of once per year to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent or his or her
agent access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.61 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property or any part thereof and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.62 PUBLIC NOTICING OF SNC DISCHARGES.
   The Superintendent shall, on a yearly basis, publish a listing of individual
significant industrial users found to be in significant noncompliance during
the previous 12-month period. The notice shall be placed in the legal notice
section of the newspaper of largest circulation within the city. The listing
shall include the name of the SIU and the basis for SNC determination.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.75 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within
30 days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.76 AGREED ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into agreed orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. The documents will include specific action to be
taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified
by the document. The documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to this chapter and shall be judicially
enforceable.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.77 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement to appear
before the superintendent and show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken.
   (B)   Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for
the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for the action and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least 15 days prior to the
hearing. The notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user.
A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.78 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the
user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.79 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that
the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Superintendent may issue an
order to the user directing it to cease and desist all violations and directing
the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take any appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.80 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may fine the user. The fines shall be assessed on a per
violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.8% per month. A lien against the user's
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute the fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.81 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
formal notice to the user, whenever the suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspended a user's discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take any steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
54.82 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.82 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; and/or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in this chapter.
   (B)   The user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action should not
be taken. Exercise of this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.83 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder, or any other pertinent standard or requirement is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be
subject to the provisions of the city governing nuisances, including
reimbursing the city for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
the nuisance.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 54.95 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Superintendent may petition the County Circuit Court, through the City
Attorney, for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this chapter
on activities of the user. The Superintendent may also seek any other action as
is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for
the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.96 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a maximum
civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or
other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day
during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violations,
corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
§ 54.97 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 842, passed 4-1-2000)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
§ 54.105 INTRODUCTION.
   On July 24, 1990 (55 Fedora. 30082), the Environmental Protection Agency
promulgated regulations to require all Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTWs)
to adopt an enforcement response plan (ERP) as part of their approved
pretreatment programs. The regulation as stated in 40 CFR 403.8(1) (5) is as
follows:
   (A)   The POTW shall develop and implement an enforcement response plan.
This plan shall contain detailed procedures indicating how a POTW will
investigate and respond to instances of industrial user noncompliance. The plan
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Describe how the POTW will investigate instances of noncompliance;
      (2)   Describe the types of escalating enforcement responses the POTW
will take in response to all anticipated types of industrial user violations
and the time periods within which responses will take place;
      (3)   Identify (by title) the official(s) responsible for each type of
response;
      (4)   Adequately reflect the POTWs primary responsibility to enforce all
applicable pretreatment requirements and standards, as detailed in 40 CFR 403.8
(f) (1) and (f)(2).
   (B)   The ERP outlines the procedures that will be used to identify,
document, track and respond to noncompliance. The ERP also provides guidance
for selecting the enforcement action most appropriate for a given violation.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.106 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the ERP is to provide consistent enforcement responses for
similar violations and circumstances. The ERP describes violations, defines a
range of appropriate enforcement actions based on the nature and severity of
the violation and other relevant factors, and identifies personnel responsible
for finalizing enforcement responses.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.107 ADMINISTRATION AND JURISDICTION.
   All entities discharging nondomestic waste to the POTW are subject to the
provisions of the ERP. The control authority consistently administers and
implements all elements of the ERP. The ERP does not preclude the control
authority from taking any, all, or any combination of actions against a
noncompliant industrial ERP.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.108 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
      AO — Administrative Order
      CA — Control Authority
      ERG — Enforcement Response Guide
      ERP — Enforcement Response Plan
      IU — Industrial User
      NOV —Notice of Violation
      POTW — Publicly Owned Treatment Works
      WL — Warning Letter
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The entity directly administering and enforcing
pretreatment standards and requirements against industrial users. The (insert
approved pretreatment program city or district).
      DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.
         (a)   Wastewater from normal residential activities including, but not
limited to, wastewater from kitchen, bath and laundry facilities; or
         (b)   Wastewater from the personal sanitary conveniences (toilets,
showers, bathtubs, fountains, noncommercial sinks, and similar structures) of
commercial, industrial or institutional buildings, provided that the wastewater
exhibits characteristics which are similar to those of wastewater from normal
residential activities. Specifically excluded from this definition is
wastewater from commercial, industrial, or institutional laundries or food
preparation facilities.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Any source that introduces pollutants into a POTW from
any nondomestic source.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Devices and systems used in the
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances
only if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.109 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. The Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator (IPC) is responsible for the day implementation and enforcement of
the industrial pretreatment program. The enforcement responses carried out by
the IPC are as follows:
      (1)   Informal notices (verbal and written);
      (2)   Notices of violation;
      (3)   Informal meetings; and
      (4)   Referrals to the state or EPA for criminal action.
   (B)   Superintendent. The Superintendent has the responsibility to monitor
the IPC actions and to initiate the following enforcement actions at the
recommendation of the IPC:
      (1)   Show cause hearings;
      (2)   Administrative orders;
      (3)   Consent agreements;
      (4)   Referrals to the city attorney for civil litigation; and
      (5)   Referrals to the state or EPA for criminal action.
   (C)   POTW Attorney. The POTW Attorney will provide legal consultation as
requested by the Superintendent on consent agreements and administrative orders
and will take the lead on all referrals for civil litigation and POTW initiated
criminal investigations.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.110 IDENTIFYING AND INVESTIGATING INSTANCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   There are many activities associated with the identification and
investigation of noncompliance. A brief description of these activities is
provided in this ERP. Detailed discussion and procedures for the activities can
be found in other relevant sections of the approved pretreatment program
document. The activities that facilitate the identification and investigation
of noncompliance are as follows:
      (1)   Industrial user inventory. An essential step for identifying
noncompliance, know who is discharging nondomestic waste to the POTW, where
they are located, and the nature of the nondomestic waste being discharged. The
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator maintains a current inventory of all
nondomestic sources of waste to the POTW.
      (2)   Monitoring and inspection plan. The Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator prepares an annual monitoring and inspection plan. The control
authority monitors the wastewater from each Significant Industrial User (SIU)
at least once per year. The control authority requires all sampling and
analysis to be performed in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136. Control authority
sampling procedures, including quality assurance/quality control procedures,
discussed elsewhere in the approved pretreatment program document, are followed
to maximize sample integrity.
         (a)   A comprehensive inspection of each SIU is conducted by the
control authority at least once per year. The control authority follows
inspection procedures discussed elsewhere in the approved pretreatment program
to ensure consistent, thorough, and well documented inspections.
         (b)   Information gathered during control authority industrial user
monitoring and inspections is used to verify industrial user compliance status
and to determine if enforcement response must be initiated or continued.
      (3)   Compliance screening.  All reports from industrial users and
reports generated by the control authority are carefully reviewed, on an as-
received basis for timeliness, completeness and accuracy. The screening process
includes an evaluation of compliance with report due dates, numerical
standards, sample, handling and analysis requirements, signatory/certification
requirements, monitoring frequency and the like.
   (B)   All violations are clearly documented and addressed in accordance with
the Enforcement Response Guide.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.111 DESCRIPTION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Informal notice.
      (1)   Verbal notification. Verbal notifications by telephone or in person
provide an immediate notification of violations. In general, verbal
notifications are used for minor isolated violations or as an initial step
leading to an escalated enforcement response. All verbal notifications related
to enforcement or the investigation of suspected violations are documented in
writing and placed in the respective industrial user file.
      (2)   Warning letters. Warning letters are issued under the same
circumstances as verbal notifications. They may be issued as follow-up letters
to verbal notifications or in lieu of verbal notifications.
   (B)   Informal meeting. An informal meeting is used to gather information
concerning noncompliance, discuss steps to alleviate noncompliance, and
determine the commitment level of the industrial user. All informal meetings
are documented in the city files.
   (C)   Notice of violation.  A Notice of Violation (NOV) is a written notice
to the noncompliant industrial user that a pretreatment violation has occurred.
A NOV includes a statement detailing the legal authority under which the
control authority issued the NOV, a description of the violations(s) occurred.
The NOV requires a response from the industrial user that details the causes of
the violation(s), and the corrective actions taken to correct the violation and
prevent similar violations from occurring. In general, NOVs are considered to
be more stringent enforcement responses than warning letters.
   (D)   Administrative order.  Administrative Orders (AOs) are enforcement
documents that direct industrial users to undertake and/or to cease specified
activities by specified deadlines. The terms of an AO may or may not be
negotiated with industrial users. AOs may incorporate compliance schedules,
administrative penalties, termination of service and show cause orders. An
administrative order is the minimum level of enforcement used to address
significant noncompliance.
   (E)   Show cause hearing. A show cause hearing is a formal meeting requiring
the industrial users to appear, explain its noncompliance, and show cause as to
why more severe enforcement actions against the user should not go forward. The
meeting may also serve as a forum to discuss corrective action and compliance
schedules.
   (F)   Termination of service.  Termination of service is the revocation of
an industrial users privilege to discharge nondomestic wastewater into the
sewer system. Termination of service is used when the discharge from an
industrial user presents imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, or the environment, or threatens to interfere with the POTWs
operations or as an escalating enforcement action to a significant violation
when a noncompliant industrial user fails to respond adequately to previous
enforcement actions. Termination of service may be accomplished by physical
severance of the industrial users connection to the collection system, issuance
of an AO (cease and desist order) which compels the IU to immediately terminate
its discharge, revocation of the IUs discharge permit, or a court ruling.
   (G)   Administrative fines.  An administrative fine is a punitive monetary
charge assessed by the control authority rather than a court. The penalty
authority must be authorized in the POTWs local legal authority. The purpose of
the fine is to recover the economic benefit of noncompliance and to deter
future violations. When assessing an administrative fine the following factors
are considered:
      (1)   Type and severity of the violation;
      (2)   Number of violations cited;
      (3)   Duration of noncompliance;
      (4)   Impact of the violation on the receiving water, sludge quality, and
POTW operation;
      (5)   Whether the violation threatened public health;
      (6)   The economic benefit or savings the industrial user gained from the
noncompliance;
      (7)   Compliance history of the industrial user; and
      (8)   Whether the industrial user is making a good faith effort to
comply.
   (H)   Civil litigation.  Civil litigation is the formal process whereby the
control authority files a lawsuit against the industrial user POTW for the
noncompliance. Civil litigation also includes enforcement measures which
require involvement or approval of the court, such as injunctive relief.
   (I)   Referral to EPA or the state.  Where a POTW does not rely on criminal
prosecution for its enforcement authority, referral to the state or EPA may be
made. For violations that may warrant criminal prosecution, the control
authority will refer the case to EPA or the state for further action.
Circumstances that trigger EPA or state referrals include evidence of
willfulness, evidence of negligence, and bad faith shown by the industrial
user.
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 54.112 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE GUIDE.
   (A)   Enforcement Response Guide. The Enforcement Response Guide (ERG)
designates several enforcement options for each type (or pattern) of
noncompliance. The intent of the ERG is to provide direction for appropriate
enforcement response and to ensure consistent enforcement for similar
violations and circumstances. Factors that will be revaluated when determining
the appropriate response are as follows:
      (1)   Good faith of the user;
      (2)   Compliance history of the user;
      (3)   Previous success of the enforcement actions against the user (e.g.
if historically NOVs have not been effective in returning the user to
compliance in a reasonable period of time, an administrative order would be a
more appropriate response.);
      (4)   Violations effect on the environment and/or public health; and
      (5)   Violations effect on the POTW.
   (B)   Violations resulting in significant noncompliance. Any violation that
results in significant noncompliance (SNC) will be addressed through formal
enforcement action regardless of the enforcement response otherwise dictated by
the enforcement response guide. The minimum level of enforcement used to
address SNC is an AO.
   (C)   Escalating enforcement response.  Escalating enforcement response will
be used for recurring violations and failure to achieve compliance subsequent
to informal or formal enforcement. A recurring violation is one in which the
same type of violation occurs on consecutive reporting periods, the violation
occurs seasonally, or any other pattern of noncompliance is shown.
   (D)   Violations falling under more than one category.  Violations that fall
under more than one category in the enforcement response guide will be
addressed through the more severe enforcement response. All alleged violations
will be included in the more severe response.
   (E)   Timeframes for enforcement responses.
      (1)   All violations will be identified and documented within five days
of receiving compliance information.
      (2)   Initial enforcement responses (informal or formal) will occur
within 15 days of identifying a violation.
      (3)   Follow up actions for continuing or recurring violations will be
taken within 60 days of the initial enforcement response.
      (4)   Violations which threaten health, property or environmental quality
are considered emergencies and will receive immediate response such as halting
the discharge or termination service. All violations meeting the criteria for
significant noncompliance will be addressed through formal enforcement within
30 days of the identifications of significant noncompliance.
Cause Type of Noncompliance Circumstances Type of Enforcement
Cause        Type of Noncompliance Circumstances         Type of Enforcement
                                   IU unaware of
             Discharge without a   requirement           NOV with application
             permit                No harm to POTW or    form
                                   environment
                                   IU has not submitted  Phone call
                                   application within 10 Warning letter
             Failure to submit     days of due date
             permit application    IU has not submitted
Unauthorized with intent of        application after     NOV; AO
             discharge             notice by the POTW
                                   Failure ta submit     Refer to discharge
                                   application           without permit
             Unauthorized          No harm to POTW or    NOV; AO; AO with fine;
             discharge through     environment           civil action criminal
             manhole, septic only                        investigation
             receiving station,    Harm to POTW or       AO with fine; civil
             car wash, etc.        environment           action; criminal
                                                         investigation
 
Cause Type of Noncompliance Circumstances Type of Enforcement
Cause           Type of              Circumstances       Type of Enforcement
                Noncompliance
                                     Recurring           Criminal
                                                         investigation
                                                         NOV; AO; AO with
                                     No harm to POTW or  fine; civil action
                Permitted user       environment         criminal
Unauthorized    discharging waste                        investigation
                not authorized by    Harm to POTW or     AO with fine; civil
                permit               environment         action; criminal
                                                         investigation
                                     Recurring           Criminal
                                                         investigation
                Exceedence of                            AO; AO with fine;
                discharge limitation                     civil action
Discharge Limit or prohibition in    Results in SNC      Termination of
                permit or local                          service
                legal authority
                Document is
                Improperly Signed or Isolated incident   Phone call; WL; NOV
                Certified
                                     Previous notice by  NOV: AO; AO with
                                     POTW                fine
                Incomplete or        Isolated incident   Phone call; WL; NOV
                inaccurate document
                                     Recurring problem   AO; AO with fine
                                     5 days to 29 days   Phone call; WL; NOv
Reporting       Document is late     30 days or more     AO; AO with fine
Violations                           Documents are       AO with fine; civil
                                     repeatedly late     action
                                     No actual or
                                     potential harm to   NOV; AO
                Failure to report    POTW or environment
                violation, spill/    Actual or potential AO with fine; civil
                slug or changed      harm to POTW        action
                discharge                                AO with fine; civil
                                     Recurring problem   action; terminate
                                                         service
 
Cause Type of Noncompliance Circumstances Type of Enforcement
Cause               Type of              Circumstances      Type of Enforcement
                    Noncompliance
                    Failure to report    Isolated incident  Phone call; WL; NOV
                    additional           Recurring          AO; AO with fine
Reporting           monitoring
Violations          Falsification of                        Criminal
                    information or data  Any instance       investigation;
                                                            terminate service
                    Failure to monitor
                    for all required     Isolated           Phone call; WL; NOV
                    parameters
                                         Recurring          AO; AO with fine;
                                                            civil action
                    Improper sampling
                    handling/analytical  Isolated           Phone call; WL; NOV
                    procedures
                                         Recurring          NOV; AO; AO with
                                                            fine
                    Failure to resample
                    within required time Isolated           Phone call; WL; NOV
                    frame
                                         Prior notification AO with fine
Sampling Violations                      from CA
                                         Recurring          AO; AO with fine
                    Failure to install   Delay less than 30
                    monitoring equipment days               NOV
                    sampling points
                                         Delay greater than Ao with fine; civil
                                         30 days            action
                    Tampers with                            Criminal
                    monitoring equipment Any incident       investigation;
                    or sample                               termination of
                                                            discharge
                    Sampling at          Isolated incident  NOV
                    incorrect location
                                                            AO with fine; civil
                                         Recurring          action; criminal
                                                            investigation
 
Cause Type of Noncompliance Circumstances Type of Enforcement
Cause              Type of             Circumstances        Type of Enforcement
                   Noncompliance
                                       Less than 30 days
                   Missed milestone    late or will not     NOV; AO
                                       affect final
                                       compliance date
                   Not in compliance   Less than 30 days
Compliance         as of final         late                 NOV; AO
Schedules          compliance date
                                       Greater than 30 days AO; AO with fine
                                       late
                                       Greater than 30 days Show cause order;
                                       late reasonable      civil action;
                                       cause for delay      termination of
                                                            discharge
                   Files incomplete or
Inadequate Records missing (no         Isolated             NOV
                   evidence of intent)
                                       Recurring            AO; AO with fine
Other Violations   Entry denied or     Any instance         Obtain warrant and
                   consent withdrawn                        return to IU
 
(Ord. 948, passed 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 55: REFUSE
Section
Disposal and Collection Requirements
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Authority of the Board of Public Works and Safety
   
55.03   Responsibility for the removal of refuse
   
55.04   Container regulations
   
55.05   Hauling waste materials; private dumps
   
55.06   Permit required for sorting junk; fires
   
55.07   Private trash collectors; permit fees
   
55.08   Curbside collection; exception
   
55.09   Scope of services; fees and billing
   
55.10   Delinquency charge; lien
   
55.11   Collection and appropriation of payments
   
55.12   Annual report
   
55.13   Increase in units
   
55.14   Garbage grinders; disposal units
   
55.15   Civil penalty
Illegal Dumping
   
55.25   Definitions
   
55.26   Violations
   
55.27   Enforcement agents; court action
   
55.28   Violation notification; enforcement procedures
   
55.29   Solid Waste Clean Up Fund
Cross-reference:
   For removal of debris, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, refuse, junk and
tires, see §
94.03
DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BOARD. The City Board of Public Works and Safety.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS STRUCTURES. Any structure in which there is located any
commercial or retail business or activity.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION. Collection in a standard container, as defined herein,
at or near the street or alley adjacent to the premises served or at any other
location as the city may direct.
   CUSTODIAN. An owner of record of real estate, or his or her agent or
assignee, who uses a standard container.
(Ord. 678, passed 4-2-1990)
   GARBAGE. Includes every rejected food waste, accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food, or that attends the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable at
any residence, club, restaurant, hotel, nursing home or other public or private
place, also includes human or animal bodily waste and includes dead animals or
fish or portions thereof.
   REFUSE. By way of example but not limitation, except as herein expressly
provided, REFUSE shall include items such as discarded containers, paper,
ashes, cans, glass, wood, small solid objects and other litter capable of being
placed in a standard container, but specifically excluding wastes such as
rejected food wastes, including every waste accumulation of animal, fruit and
vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable,
and items such as discarded appliances, mattresses, box springs, tree limbs,
leaves and grass clippings. REFUSE shall also include all items that might be
defined as the same under the terms and conditions of a contract for refuse
collection services, which may be entered into by the Board as authorized
herein, which contract shall be on file in the Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. An occupied or unoccupied single-family residential
dwelling unit specifically including, but not limited to, a mobile home, and
each individual housekeeping, living or dwelling unit of a multiple-family
building. (May be referred to as “Unit”.)
   TRASH BAG. A bag with a draw-string or other method of closure, which is
opaque, which has a volume capacity of no more than 40 gallons and which weighs
no more than 30 pounds.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.02 AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The City Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized and empowered
to provide for collection and disposal of all refuse which accumulates from
time to time on or about the premises of all residences in the city, and to
provide for the collection of refuse of the various units of government
operating in the city. The Board may acquire equipment, vehicles and
containers, and employ the personnel necessary and required to accomplish the
collection and disposal of refuse. The Board may also, pursuant to the powers
vested in it by the laws of the state, contract for the collection and disposal
of household refuse.
   (B)   The Board is authorized to fix the hours or days of the week for the
collections, and from time to time to adopt any regulations, not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter, required for the collection and
disposal of household refuse.
   (C)   The Board is authorized and empowered to lease, rent, renew and re-
lease, from time to time, real estate within or without the corporate limits,
suitable and conveniently located for the establishment of public dumps. The
Board may make from time to time any regulations for the control and use of the
public dumps as may be necessary and proper with due regard for the health,
sightliness and cleanliness of the city, and for the regulation and control of
the public dumps not inconsistent, however, with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   The Board is hereby authorized to enter into agreements and shall have
any other authority as is necessary to effectuate the purposes of this
subchapter.
   (E)   The Board is hereby authorized to make any reasonable rules and
regulations, and to revise and amend them from time to time as the Board may
deem advisable, to effectuate the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986)
   (F)   To facilitate the collection of the fee imposed by this subchapter,
the Board, in its discretion, may show the amount of the residential refuse
collection fee upon statements rendered by the City Water Department and Sewer
Department. The Board may, in its discretion, place any additional information
of each statement which it deems useful in charging and collecting the fees
imposed by this subchapter. The failure or omission to render any statement or
bill shall not in any manner relieve the owner of the residential unit,
building or structure of the obligation to pay any fee under this subchapter.
(Ord. 662, passed 4-30-1989; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF REFUSE.
   Every person owning or controlling, either as principal or agent, or
occupying any residential unit or commercial business structure shall keep all
garbage and refuse generated by the occupants of such unit or structure, or
accumulated on the property occupied by the unit or structure, in legal
containers, and shall be responsible for the disposal of such garbage and
refuse at least weekly, either through curbside collection services offered by
the city, or through the services of a private trash collector approved by the
city pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed 7-2-2005)
§ 55.04 CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each occupying owner or occupying tenant of each unit or structure
shall cause to be placed at the curb or at the alley all refuse generated by
the unit or structure, in trash bags of a size and nature authorized by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986)
   (B)   No person shall exert unauthorized use of control over a trash bag
placed at the curb or the alley by an occupying owner or occupying tenant of a
unit or structure without consent of the custodian or the City Trash
Department. Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine in addition to any and all other remedies provided by §
55.15.
(Ord. 678, passed 4-2-1990; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed
7-5-2005)
§ 55.05 HAULING WASTE MATERIALS; PRIVATE DUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall haul, transport, convey or cause to be hauled,
transported or conveyed any trash, ashes, rubbish, refuse, junk or other
discarded or waste materials, and deposit, place or dump the materials on any
public property, street or thoroughfare or on any privately owned property,
except on public dumps established by the Board of Public Works and Safety
under §
55.02.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the dumping
or depositing of dirt, sand, gravel, the compound commonly known as fly ash,
concrete rubble or similar materials. These substances shall be free of all
trash, rubbish, or refuse materials of all kinds, and can be dumped or
deposited on any lot either publicly or privately owned, at the request of the
owner, for the purpose of elevating the grade of the lot or the unimproved part
of the lot.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SORTING JUNK; FIRES.
   No person shall go on any public dump, established and operated under the
provisions of this subchapter, for the purpose of sorting rags, tin cans,
paper, junk, or any other materials without a permit in writing from the Board.
No person shall set or start a fire on any public dump at any time.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.07 PRIVATE TRASH COLLECTORS; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   No person privately engaged in the business or practice of collecting
garbage, trash, ashes or waste materials from the property of another shall
engage in the business or practice without first obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this subchapter. The permit shall be issued on application by, and
in the discretion of, the Board, which for cause may suspend or revoke the
permit. Before the Board is authorized to issue a permit as set forth in this
subchapter, any vehicle to be used in the collection business shall be
exhibited to the Sanitation Officer of the County Board of Public Health. The
Sanitation Officer shall examine the vehicle and, if found to comply with
existing health and sanitation requirements of the city and the state, shall
issue an approval of the vehicle which must be submitted to the Board. A copy
of the approval shall be retained by the Board at all times in its records.
   (B)   The approval of the Board, as set forth in division (A) above, and the
approval of the County Health Department as to any vehicle to be used shall be
issued for a period of one year. The vehicle shall at all times be maintained
in a condition equal to the minimum standards established by the County Health
Department for the vehicle. The applicant for the permit shall pay to the Board
the annual sum of $60 for each vehicle, which shall be deposited in the same
fund as the fees collected pursuant to §
55.11 herein. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue and is hereby authorized to
issue a permit for the year. The permit may be suspended or revoked by the
Board on the failure of any vehicle to at any time meet the minimum standards
herein established.
   (C)   In addition to any regulations which may be adopted by the Board
pursuant to this section, all licensed private trash collectors shall comply
with the following regulations for trash services at any individual residential
unit, or any multi-family residential family unit or any commercial structure,
to-wit:
      (1)   The pick-up schedule for refuse handled by the private trash
collection service shall be no less frequently than once each week.
      (2)   The private trash collector shall not provide any trash containers
whatsoever to its patrons residing in a multi-family unit of less than five
individual residential units, except that it may provide a supply of approved
trash bags as defined in §
55.01.
      (3)   The private trash collector shall not collect refuse from any
multi-family residential family unit of less than five residential units from
any container whatsoever except an approved trash bag as defined in §
55.01. Included, is a prohibition against any metal or other container which is
picked up automatically by fork arms or other methods into a truck or other
means of conveyance.
   (D)   The Board is authorized to adopt regulations regulating the issuance
of the permits, the kind of character of the conveyance used, the manner and
method of collection, and any other rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this subchapter. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record
of all permits issued.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.08 CURBSIDE COLLECTION; EXCEPTION.
   The Common Council now finds as follows:
   (A)   In the interests of the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, it is necessary to make available curbside collection of
refuse from structures consisting of residential units and commercial
structures;
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed or interpreted
as authorizing or requiring, at public expense, the collection and disposal of
waste material that shall result from the operation of any manufacturing,
processing or commercial concern or business, except as provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.09 SCOPE OF SERVICES; FEES AND BILLING.
   (A)   Curbside collection of refuse shall be available to residential units
and commercial structures under the terms and conditions of this subchapter,
and under any reasonable rules and regulations as the Board may adopt. To be
eligible for collection by the city, all refuse shall be separated and placed
in separate approved trash bags by the occupants of the structure and shall
require a trash collection sticker. The authorized bags for the collection and
disposal of trash pursuant to this trash collection service shall have placed
thereon a sticker to be purchased from the city or its authorized sellers at a
price per sticker that the city may from time to time deem necessary to cover
the costs of the service. The funds received from the sale of stickers and the
base rate shall be for the cost of administration, collection and disposal
costs, including equipment and labor costs, associated with the collection and
disposal relating to the trash collection service. The sticker charge will be
$1 for each sticker.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby imposed as base fee of $7.75 per month upon each
residential unit contained in a structure consisting of one through three
residential units plus $1 per stickered trash bag, each trash bag not to exceed
40 gallons in volume nor 30 pounds in weight.
      (2)   The fees established herein shall be imposed on and be the
obligation of the owner of record of the residential unit or units as shown in
the office of the County Recorder. The monthly fee shall be charged to each
residential tenant subject to curbside collection, that being residential units
of five units or less, regardless of whether the occupant thereof uses the city
refuse curbside collection service or a private trash collection service.
      (3)   In the spring of each year the city has established a spring clean
up week. For structures consisting of residential units of five units or less,
there is hereby established an annual spring clean up fee of $6 for each
residential customer billing. Additionally, the Tell City Trash Department
during the spring clean up week allows residential customers to transport
truckloads of trash to the Street Department site in Tell City. Because of the
amount of such loads, an excess load fee is authorized to be billed for $10 per
excess load, with such excess load to be determined by representatives of the
Tell City Trash Department.
   (C)   (1)   There is hereby imposed a fee for residential units contained in
a structure consisting of at least four residential units or more, a base fee
of $5.50 per month upon each residential unit contained in such structure, plus
a fee of between $20 and $150 per month, as determined by the Street
Commissioner, and the trash bags picked up by the City Trash Department for
such apartment building shall not be required to have a bag fee, however, such
trash bags shall not exceed 40 gallons in volume or 30 pounds in weight. The
$5.50 per month, per unit fee shall be imposed upon the owner of said structure
regardless of whether the occupants thereof use city provided refuse services,
or privately provided services.
      (2)   For all commercial business structures there is hereby imposed a
fee, as follows: the Street Commissioner may determine that such business
structure shall qualify for the same fee structure as a residential structure,
meaning that the commercial business customer would pay $5.50 per month plus $1
per trash bag for each separate trash bag. The Street Commissioner may also
determine in his or her sole discretion that the above fee structure is not
appropriate for such commercial business and may therefore instead of treating
the commercial business customer as a residential customer for fee purposes,
charge such commercial business customer a monthly fee between $35 and $150 per
month, as determined by the Street Commissioner, and the trash bags picked up
by the City Trash Department for such commercial customer shall not be required
to have a bag fee, but the trash bags picked up shall not exceed 40 gallons in
volume nor 30 pounds in weight. The customer shall be required to pay the $5.50
monthly fee, regardless of whether the occupant(s) thereof choose to use city
provided refuse services, or private provided services.
      (3)   For billing purposes of the $5.50 monthly fee, except for apartment
buildings containing four units or more, it shall be presumed that each water
meter of the Water Department serves a structure for which the $5.50 monthly
fee is due.
   (D)    There is hereby imposed a fee charged to the City Housing Authority
for its various housing units within the city, the following fees: 1648 10th
Street - $495.00 per month; 1871 Pestalozzi Street - $310.00 per month; 605
16th Street - $310.00 per month. The trash bags collected at the above units of
the City Housing Authority shall not be required to have stickers.
   (E)   (1)   The fees imposed herein shall be due and payable at the office
of the Trash Department in the City Hall on the fifteenth day of each month.
      (2)   There is hereby imposed a basic service fee of $50.00 if the Trash
Department has to make a special trip to a tract of real property other than in
its normal weekly operational route for the purpose of picking up trash bags.
Additionally, improperly tagged trash bags or untagged trash bags which are
picked up by the Trash Department at the time of its normal weekly operational
route will require an additional fee of $5.00 per bag which is required to be
properly tagged and collected by the Trash Department during this process.
(Ord. 662, passed 4-3-1989; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed
7-5-2005; Am. Ord. 974, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord. 1009, passed 5-4-2009; Am.
Ord. 1043, passed 5-2-2011; Am. Ord. 1066, passed 5-6-2013; Am. Ord. 1123,
passed 6-5-2017; Am. Ord. 1144, passed 5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 5-3-
2021; Am. Ord. 1197, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 55.10 DELINQUENCY CHARGE; LIEN.
   If the net fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter is not paid within 30
days of its due date as indicated conspicuously on the billing, there shall be
assessed a delinquency charge in the amount of 10% of the net fee which
delinquency charge and net fee shall be immediately due and payable. If the net
fee and delinquency charges are not paid as required by this section, these
amounts, together with a reasonable attorney fee, may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 662, passed 4-3-1989; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed
7-5-2005; Am. Ord. 1082, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 55.11 COLLECTION AND APPROPRIATION OF PAYMENTS.
   The fees as provided for in this subchapter shall be paid as they become due
at the Trash Department. The billing for the $5.50 monthly fees shall be placed
on water bills generated by the Water Department. All collected payments shall
be and constitute a separate and distinct fund from other funds of the city,
and shall not be merged or co-mingled with other funds of the city.
(Ord. 662, passed 4-3-1989; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed
7-5-2005; Am. Ord. 974, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 55.12 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall, on the first anniversary date after the passage of this
subchapter, and each year thereafter until the termination of this subchapter,
file with the Clerk-Treasurer, the Common Council and the Office of the Mayor a
report examining the rates and charges as required by applicable state and
federal statutes and containing, if necessary, recommendations for adjustments
and modifications. A copy of the schedule of rates and charges shall, at all
times, be kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall be open
for public inspection. The fees shall be extended to cover any additional
residential units thereafter subject to the fee as established herein, without
the necessity of any hearing or notice.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.13 INCREASE IN UNITS.
   (A)   Owners of property subject to the fees provided for herein shall
report any increase in the number of residential units on the property to the
Board prior to the completion of construction or occupancy, whichever first
shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall utilize the services provided for herein except in the
manner prescribed by this subchapter and the rules and regulations of the
Board.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.14 GARBAGE GRINDERS; DISPOSAL UNITS.
   (A)   It is the intention of this section to encourage the disposal of
garbage through garbage grinders into sewers. Therefore, it shall be unlawful
for the owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the city to deposit or
place any garbage in any alley, street or other public place within the city,
or upon, or along any public way within two miles of the city limits. No person
shall deposit or place any garbage upon private property outside of any
residence, club, restaurant, hotel, nursing home or other public or private
place, whether owned by the person or not, within the limits of the city;
provided, however, any person may destroy the garbage upon his or her own
premises by incineration or otherwise to the satisfaction of the Sanitation
Officer of the County Board of Public Health.
   (B)   All buildings hereinafter constructed containing a kitchen or kitchens
and all kitchens hereafter remodeled shall have installed in each kitchen a
garbage disposal connected to the sewers, which shall effectively pulverize
garbage, or shall have installed a calcinator in each of the kitchens or an
adjoining room, which shall effectively dispose of garbage without emitting
odor or smoke. Each of the kitchens shall be equipped with other similar
devices which effectively dispose of garbage. All devices shall be approved by
the City Inspector.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 55.15 CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this subchapter may be enforced pursuant to any action
authorized by law, including but not limited to, the procedures stated in this
code.
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of this subchapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each day
during which a violation exists. If the violation is of a continuing nature,
each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 712, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 934, passed 5-2-2005; Am. Ord. 937, passed
7-5-2005)
ILLEGAL DUMPING
§ 55.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATE.
      (1)   As it pertains to solid waste, ACCUMULATE means any one of the
following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting solid waste in improper storage
containers;
         (b)   Collecting solid waste for a period exceeding seven days; and/or
         (c)   Collecting solid waste in an accumulation greater than five
trash bags with the bags having a volume of no more than 40 gallons nor weight
greater than 30 pounds.
      (2)   As it pertains to construction or demolition materials, ACCUMULATE
means any one of the following:
         (a)   Improperly collecting construction or demolition materials in an
improper storage container;
         (b)   Collecting construction or demolition materials for a period
exceeding 90 days; and/or
         (c)   Collecting construction or demolition materials in an
accumulation greater than 40 cubic yards.
(Ord. 847, passed 7-3-2000)
   CONSTRUCTION or DEMOLITION MATERIALS. Any discarded construction or
demolition materials, including, but not limited to, lumber, wood, paneling,
dry wall, roofing, shingles, siding, plumbing, electrical, doors, windows,
floor coverings, cabinets and other similar materials.
   CONTAMINATION.  As it pertains to recyclables, CONTAMINATION is defined to
include: unrinsed containers with food or product residue; non-container glass
material; containers that held oil, pesticides, fertilizers, paint products,
herbicides, poisons or other hazardous materials; materials fouled with dirt or
substances foreign to their original contents; wet or saturated newspaper; wet,
saturated or waxed cardboard or waxed paperboard products; products not
specifically accepted by the program; and any other materials not specifically
accepted by the recycling program or any other condition which renders
otherwise acceptable materials unrecyclable.
   DISCARD. To abandon, bury, chuck, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop,
eliminate, emit, fling, heave, hurl, jettison, launch, leave, loft, pitch,
place, put, scrap, spill, throw or to toss any item, any solid waste or
derivative thereof or any inherently wastelike material in a manner so that the
discarded substance or material remains upon the land as solid waste.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semi-solid
wastes from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person or entity whose actions or processes result in the
unwanted solid waste materials.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste that because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitatingly reversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed
of or otherwise managed;
      (3)   Be nondegradable or persistent in the environment;
      (4)   Be biologically magnified;
      (5)   Cause or tend to cause cumulative effects; and/or
      (6)   Be defined by state law or 40 CFR 261.3 and any future amendments.
HAZARDOUS WASTE  includes household hazardous wastes and used non-food oils and
solvents.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Uncontaminated earth, rock, rigid, concrete, bricks,
tiles or aged asphalt. Uncontaminated natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips,
sawdust and other similar materials shall be considered to be INERT SOLID WASTE
for the purpose of this chapter. Any asbestos containing products shall not be
considered to be INERT SOLID WASTE for the purposes of this chapter.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting any communicable
disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but is not limited to, pathological wastes,
including human tissues, blood, excreta, and secretions, and medical and
laboratory wastes, including contaminated or fouled bedding, bandages,
dressings and diapers, animal carcasses, offals, excreta, body parts, bedding
and other similar materials.
   LITTERING. Discarding any items of solid waste in any location other than a
proper waste storage container or disposal site. LITTERING includes, but is not
limited to, leaving unsolicited or unwanted materials, unless placed in a
proper delivery receptacle. LITTERING also includes any item of waste materials
moved by wind, water or animals onto a public way or onto an adjacent property.
LITTERING also includes the accumulation of anything or any combination of
items exceeding a volume of one cubic foot.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method prescribed by
law or regulations, and that is established and maintained without cover and
without regard to the possibility of contamination of surface or subsurface
water resources.
   OPEN DUMPING. The act of disposing of solid waste at an open dump, and also
includes an accumulation of anything or any combination of items exceeding a
volume of one cubic foot.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, school, city, town, school district, school corporation, county,
any consolidating unit of government, political subdivision, state agency or
any other legal entity.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials segregated from the waste stream for the purposes of
collection and reprocessing to recover and reuse as a material resource. It
also includes, but is not limited to, glass containers, newspapers, office
paper, unwaxed corrugated cardboard, aluminum and steel containers, and certain
plastic containers.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable or recyclable waste materials
from a solid waste disposal facility with the consent of the owner of the waste
material.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled, unauthorized and illegal removing of materials
from solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge or other discharged or disposed
materials, including solid, liquid or semi-solid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from any operation, activity or source. For the purpose of this
subchapter SOLID WASTE excludes hazardous and infectious waste.
   STORAGE. As it pertains to solid waste, STORAGE means proper temporary
containment of waste materials in a waste storage container not to exceed seven
days, or an accumulation of five trash bags, with the bags holding no more than
40 gallons by volume and 30 pounds by weight, whichever is the first to occur.
As it pertains to construction or demolition materials, STORAGE means proper
temporary containment of waste materials in a waste storage container for a
period not to exceed seven days, or an accumulation of five trash bags, with
the bags holding no more than 40 gallons by volume and 30 pounds by weight,
whichever is the first to occur.
(Ord. 847, passed 7-3-2000)
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste, infectious or hazardous wastes while awaiting
collection. Containers shall be designed to prevent escape or leakage of
contents and should be resistant to scavenging animals. Plastic bags, paper
bags and corrugated boxes shall not be considered to be proper containers for
outdoor storage of wastes.
   VECTOR. Any animal or substance capable of harboring and transmitting
microorganisms from one animal to another or to a human being.
(Ord. 804, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 55.26 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of any of the following prohibitions shall constitute a
Class A Violation of this subchapter:
      (1)   No person shall discard any infectious or hazardous waste materials
within the city.
      (2)   No person who owns real property in the city shall cause or consent
to the disposal, open dumping or discarding, upon that property, of any solid
waste, infectious waste or hazardous waste generated in any location not owned
by that person or generated by any other person.
      (3)   No person shall interfere with the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Violation of any of the following prohibitions shall constitute a
Class B Violation of this subchapter:
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste on the property of another
person except in an approved and, if required, permitted disposal facility,
transfer site, recycling facility or transfer station.
      (2)   No person shall deposit any contaminants upon the land in a place
and/or manner which would create a pollution hazard that violates or would
violate a rule adopted by the State Department of Environmental Management or
any of its boards, or deposit or cause or allow the deposit of any contaminants
or any solid waste upon the land except through the use of sanitary landfills,
incineration, composting garbage grinding or another method acceptable to the
City Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (3)   No person shall dump, cause or allow the open dumping of garbage or
any other solid waste in violation of rules adopted by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
      (4)   No person shall dispose of solid waste in, upon or within the
limits of or adjacent to any public highway, state park, nature preserve or
recreation area, or in or immediately adjacent to any lake or stream, except in
proper containers provided for sanitary storage of solid waste, or except as a
part of a sanitary landfill operation or other land disposal method approved by
the Department.
      (5)   No person shall discard any solid waste within or adjacent to city
property, along streets, or within or adjacent to any bodies of water and
elsewhere in the city, except in an approved and permitted disposal facility,
transfer site or transfer station.
      (6)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or containing intended for collecting recyclables.
      (7)   No person shall accumulate infectious or hazardous wastes, solid
waste or construction or demolition waste.
   (C)   Violation of any of the following prohibitions shall constitute a
Class C Violation of this subchapter:
      (1)   No person shall discard any inert solid wastes for final disposal
or for use as fill materials without the express consent of the property owner.
      (2)   No person shall litter nor permit any dependent minor or other
person for whom that person is legally responsible to litter within the city or
cause another person to litter.
      (3)   No person shall deposit any contaminated recyclables in any
facility or container intended for collecting any recyclable materials.
      (4)   No person shall conduct salvaging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials without the prior
written permission of the facility operator.
      (5)   No person shall conduct scavenging of materials at any facility or
container intended for collecting recyclable materials, and no person shall
open dump any solid waste on his or her own property, with the exception of
materials defined as inert solid waste in §
55.25.
   (D)   No person shall contract or otherwise arrange or agree with a third
party to engage in any act prohibited by divisions (A), (B) and (C) above.
Violation of any of those divisions shall be an offense of the same class of
the violation committed by the third party.
   (E)   Failure or refusal to bring property in compliance with this
subchapter after adjudication of a violation shall constitute a Class A
Violation of this subchapter. Each day the noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   It shall not be a defense to an allegation or finding of violation of
this subchapter that other persons have participated in the violation, and any
person adjudicated to have violated this chapter shall be held liable for all
costs related to the investigation, enforcement or action to achieve compliance
with this subchapter.
   (G)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with any
authorized law enforcement agents in the performance of his or her duties
hereunder.
(Ord. 804, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.27 ENFORCEMENT AGENTS; COURT ACTION.
   Any law enforcement agents may participate in the enforcement of this
subchapter within the corporate limits of the city. The City Attorney shall be
authorized to take all required court action in the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 804, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 55.28 VIOLATION NOTIFICATION; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a condition violating this subchapter exists on real property, the
authorized law enforcement agents can take the following actions:
      (1)   Written notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested or delivered by the Tell City Police Department to owners of record
to the last known mailing address. Owners of record shall be allowed two days
from the date of receipt or date of refusal of notice to bring the property
into compliance.
(Ord. 847, passed 7-3-2000; Am. Ord. 894, passed 5-5-2003)
      (2)   If no action is taken by the property owners, the authorized law
enforcement agents will take the appropriate actions to bring the property
owners into compliance with this subchapter.
      (3)   In case of an emergency, the authorized law enforcement agents may
take immediate action and mail notice no later than 48 hours following the
action taken. If action to bring compliance is taken, the costs involved may be
recovered as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   The owner of property on which the illegal open dumping acts have
occurred may be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person
who committed the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land
and to clean up and properly dispose of the wastes.
   (C)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be brought pursuant to I.C. 34-4-32
or I.C. 36-9-30-35.
   (D)   Whenever a law enforcement officer believes in good faith that a
person has committed an ordinance violation, the officer may detain that person
for a time sufficient to:
      (1)   Inform the person of the allegation; and
      (2)   Obtain the person's name, address, telephone number and date of
birth.
   (E)   Any person whose acts constitute a Class A violation of this
subchapter shall pay a fine of not less than $50 and not greater than $500, pay
for and provide receipts evidencing all costs relating to the clean up and
proper disposal of the infectious waste, hazardous waste, and/or solid waste
related to the violation, or reimburse the authorized enforcement agents for
all costs related to any clean ups carried out by the authorized agency and
provide receipts evidencing one year of contracted trash disposal service by a
licensed waste hauler.
   (F)   Any person who commits a Class A, Class B or Class C violation of this
subchapter shall be fined in a sum of not less than $50 and not greater than
$500 per violation.
   (G)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall, in addition to any fine, be assessed all costs and expenses
for the investigation, clean up and removal of solid waste connected with the
violation and shall, in addition, be liable for all reasonable attorney fees
and costs incurred by the city in the enforcement of this subchapter.
Collection of money under any section of this subchapter shall constitute
collection of money owed the city pursuant to I.C. 36-1-4-17.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall make a certified statement of
the actual costs incurred by the city in the removal of all items removed
pursuant to this subchapter. The statement must be delivered to the owner of
the property by certified mail, and the owner shall pay the amount to the
Clerk- Treasurer within ten days of the date of mailing. If the landowner fails
to pay the amount within the time period, a certified copy of the statement of
cost shall be filed in the office of the Auditor. The Auditor shall then place
the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against the property affected by the
work, and the amount shall be collected when taxes are collected and shall be
disbursed to the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 804, passed 12-2-1997; Am. Ord. 894, passed 5-5-2003; Am. Ord. 913,
passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.29 SOLID WASTE CLEAN UP FUND.
   (A)   All fines, penalties and clean up costs assessed under this subchapter
shall be deposited into the City Solid Waste Clean Up Fund. Collection of these
amounts shall constitute collection of money owed the city pursuant to I.C. 36-
1-4-17.
   (B)   The funds collected in the Solid Waste Clean Up Fund shall be
administered under the direction of the City Common Council.
   (C)   The funds collected within the Solid Waste Clean Up Fund shall be used
for the following purposes at the discretion of the Common Council:
      (1)   Costs related to clean up and proper disposal of the materials
collected at illegal open dumping;
      (2)   Costs related to purchasing equipment and/or staff training related
to clean up of illegal open dumping;
      (3)   Costs related to court fees and attorney fees for the prosecution
of illegal open dumping;
      (4)   Costs related to educational materials used to discourage solid
waste disposal by illegal open dumping;
      (5)   Costs related to informing residents of and publicizing the
existence of this and other associated ordinances; and/or
      (6)   Other expenditures as deemed appropriate by the Common Council.
(Ord. 804, passed 12-2-19-1997)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   OFF ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience required
   
70.03   Duty of Police Department
   
70.04   Records of traffic violations
   
70.05   Traffic accident reports
   
70.06   Annual traffic safety report
   
70.07   Emergency traffic control
   
70.08   Method of identifying funeral processions
   
70.09   Vehicle inspection fee
   
70.10   Obstructing vegetation
   
70.11   Violations and enforcement
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein, but
are defined in the state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, the
definition therein shall be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used
herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
(`81 Code, § 14-1)
      ALLEY. A street intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic.
(`81 Code, § 14-2)
      AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and any ambulances that are operated by or for health and hospital
corporations, pursuant to I.C. 16-12-21; provided, however, that ambulances and
other vehicles which are owned by persons, firms or corporations other than
hospitals and are used in emergency services are designated as emergency
vehicles if the vehicles are authorized to operate as the same by the State
Office of Traffic Safety, or if approved by the State Emergency Medical
Services Commission.
      BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels
in contact with the ground.
      BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.  A simple majority vote of the City
Board of Public Works and Safety.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street
when 50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
(`81 Code, § 14-3)
      CROSSWALK.
         (a)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, regardless of the presence of pavement markings.
         (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface.
(`81 Code, § 14-4)
      DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(`81 Code, § 14-5)
      HOLIDAY. The following days of the year shall be designated as holidays:
January 1, commonly known as New Years' Day; the last Monday of May, commonly
known as Memorial Day; July 4, commonly known as Independence Day; the first
Monday of September, commonly known as Labor Day; the fourth Thursday of
November, commonly known as Thanksgiving Day; and December 25, commonly known
as Christmas Day.
(`81 Code, § 14-6)
      INTERSECTION.
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
         (b)   The junction of any alley with a street shall not constitute an
INTERSECTION.
(`81 Code, § 14-7)
      LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of passengers or property.
(`81 Code, § 14-8)
      OFFICER or POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(`81 Code, § 14-9)
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Standard time or daylight-saving time, as may be
in current use in the city.
(`81 Code, § 14-10)
      OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and
devices not inconsistent with this act placed or erected, by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
(`81 Code, § 14-11)
      PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
(`81 Code, § 14-12)
      PARKING SPACE or PARKING PLACE. A designated portion of the surface of a
street of sufficient length and depth to accommodate a vehicle of reasonable
dimensions to be parked. The designated portion shall be specified and marked
off as provided.
(`81 Code, § 14-13)
      PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
(`81 Code, § 14-14)
      PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
(`81 Code, § 14-15)
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street
not comprising a business district, when the property on the street for a
distance of 500 feet or more is, in the main, improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(`81 Code, § 14-16)
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
(`81 Code, § 14-17)
      ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
(`81 Code, § 14-18)
      SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, and intended for use by
pedestrians.
(`81 Code, § 14-19)
      STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
receiving or discharging passengers.
(`81 Code, § 14-20)
      STATE LAW. State laws regulating and relating to motor vehicles and their
operation.
(`81 Code, § 14-21)
      STOP. When required, STOP means complete cessation from movement.
(`81 Code, § 14-22)
      STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, STOP or STOPPING means any halting,
even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
(`81 Code, § 14-23)
      STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(`81 Code, § 14-24)
      TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
(`81 Code, § 14-25)
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(`81 Code, § 14-26)
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(`81 Code, § 14-27)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful, and a municipal ordinance violation, for any person to do
any act forbidden, or fail to perform any act required in this code.
(`81 Code, § 14-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this city and all of the state laws, make arrests for traffic
violations, assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations
of this code, investigate accidents, cooperate with officials of the city in
the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to improve
traffic conditions, and carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
Police Department by this code.
(`81 Code, § 14-37)
§ 70.04 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Court shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
ordinances of this city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has
been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all the
alleged offenses. The record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each. The record shall accumulate during at least a
five-year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained complete
for at least the most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all the forms.
   (C)   All of the aforementioned records and reports shall be public records.
(`81 Code, § 14-38)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person, or property damage to
an apparent extent of $100 or more shall, within five days after the accident,
forward a written report of the accident to the City Police Department, unless
the accident was immediately investigated by the Police Department.
(`81 Code, § 14-58)
   (B)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident, as required in division (A) above, and the driver is not the
owner of the vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in the accident
shall, within five days after learning of the accident, make the report not
made by the driver.
(`81 Code, § 14-59)
   (C)   All written accident reports made by drivers or owners of vehicles
involved in accidents, as required in divisions (A) and (B) above, shall be
without prejudice to the individual so reporting, and shall be for the
confidential use of the Police Department or other governmental agencies having
use of the records for accident prevention purposes, except that the Chief of
Police may disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when the
identity is not otherwise known, or when the person denies his or her presence
at the accident. No report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of any accident, except that the Chief of Police shall
furnish a report, upon demand of any person who has or claims to have made a
report, solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the
requirements that the report be made.
(`81 Code, § 14-60)
   (D)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports.
(`81 Code, § 14-39)
   (E)   The Police Department, from any information or written reports in its
files received from or by any source whatsoever, shall promptly on demand
therefor furnish to any person who has sustained loss or damage, by reason of
or resulting from the operation, maintenance or use of a vehicle upon any
public street or highway of this state, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and operator of any vehicle
involved in the accident;
      (2)   The license number and description of any vehicle involved in the
accident;
      (3)   The time and place the accident occurred;
      (4)   The names and addresses of any persons injured or killed in the
accident; and/or
      (5)   The names and addresses of any persons who were witnesses to the
accident.
   (F)   Any person entitled to the information may obtain the same from the
Police Department either in person or through his or her duly authorized agent
or attorney by first filing with the Police Department a verified written
authorization therefor signed by the person so entitled to the information.
   (G)   When the information is furnished by the Department by means of a
photocopying process, the Police Department is hereby entitled to charge a fee
of $5 for each copy of the report, and the fees collected hereunder shall be
deposited into the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
(Ord. 830, passed 3-3-1999)
   (H)   There is hereby created an Accident Report Account in which shall be
deposited all fees collected by the Police Department pursuant to this section.
The Account shall be maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (I)   The fees in the Account may be expended at the discretion of the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Police Department for any Department purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and records or the
prevention of street and highway accidents.
   (J)   In those cases where the County Prosecuting Attorney shall advise the
Police Department that in his or her opinion the information should not be
released to any person and shall assign as his or her reason therefor that
criminal charges have been filed, or are in contemplation of being filed
against any person as a result of the accident, the Police Department shall
thereunder withhold any information until its release is approved by the
prosecuting attorney.
(Ord. 578, passed 10-18-82)
§ 70.06 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (B)   The report shall contain information on traffic matters in this city,
as follows:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the Police Department; and
      (3)   Any plans and recommendations of the Chief of Police for future
traffic safety activities.
(`81 Code, § 14-40)
§ 70.07 EMERGENCY TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to temporarily place official traffic-
control devices when required by an emergency. The Chief of Police shall notify
the Mayor of his or her actions as soon thereafter as is practicable. The
official traffic-control devices shall not remain longer than 30 days unless
authorized by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(`81 Code, § 14-41)
§ 70.08 METHOD OF IDENTIFYING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall determine the method of identification for funeral
processions as required by state law.
(`81 Code, § 14-42)
§ 70.09 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby reinstated an inspection fee for a vehicle inspection
made by members of the Police Department, including regular police officers,
police reserves or other peace officers of the department pursuant to I.C. 9-1-
2-1. The fee shall be payable by the person requesting the inspection. It shall
be made at the time of the inspection. Upon payment of the fee the person
making the inspection shall issue a receipt.
   (B)   The amount of the inspection fee shall be $5. All inspections shall
take place at the Police Department headquarters. Nothing herein shall be
interpreted to require the inspector to travel to any location outside the
corporate limits of the city to make the inspection.
   (C)   The revenues collected pursuant to this section shall be payable to
the city, shall be delivered to the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall be
deposited in a special Vehicle Inspection Fund which is hereby established. The
fiscal body of the city must appropriate the money collected from these fees
only for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 70.10 OBSTRUCTING VEGETATION.
   (A)   In order that the view of persons driving along the streets of the
city at the intersections thereof may not be obstructed, nor the usefulness,
convenience and safety of the public streets impaired, nor the public safety
jeopardized thereby, it is hereby made unlawful for the owner of any real
estate within the city at appropriate intersections to fail, refuse or neglect
to trim trees, plants, flowers, shrubs, bushes or other vegetation of limbs,
branches and leaves which hang down and obstruct the vision between a point 12
feet above the crown of any street where the vegetation is located nearer than
20 feet from the center of the radius of the particular intersection.
   (B)   In the event that any obstruction to the view of any street
intersection shall be maintained in violation of this section, the Street
Commissioner and any other employees or agents of the City Street Department
are hereby given power and authority to enter upon the real estate and/or upon
the lot and to remove any obstructions to the view and/or trim any plants,
flowers, shrubs, bushes, trees or other vegetation which conflict with the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   The fine for the failure on the part of any landowner to comply with
the requirements of this section shall be in accordance with the fine schedule
of the Ordinance Violations Bureau referred to in § 37.03.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-17-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked, standing
or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by
Chapter 73 or
75 or by state law, the officer finding the vehicle shall take its registration
number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify
its user, and conspicuously affix to the vehicle a traffic citation, on a form
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, for the driver to answer to the charge against
him or her within five days, during the hours and at a place specified in the
citation.
(`81 Code, § 14-235)
   (B)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
imposed by
Chapter 73 or
75 or by state law does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to
the motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Clerk-Treasurer shall send
to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a
letter informing him or her of the violation and warning him or her that, in
the event the letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant for
arrest will be issued.
(`81 Code, § 14-236)
   (C)   (1)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any law, together with proof that
the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of the parking the
registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked
or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, the
violation occurred.
      (2)   The foregoing presumption shall apply only when the procedure
prescribed in the ordinance has been followed.
(`81 Code, § 14-237)
   (D)   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the
forfeiture of bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall be paid into the City Treasury and deposited in
the General Fund.
(`81 Code, § 14-238)
   (E)   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any judicial or other
officer or employee receiving or having custody of any fine or forfeiture,
either before or after a deposit in the General Fund, to comply with the
foregoing provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in office and
shall be grounds for removal therefrom.
(`81 Code, § 14-239)
   (F)   The City Attorney or his or her duly appointed deputy is authorized to
prosecute all charges of violation of this code.
(`81 Code, § 14-240)
   (G)   (1)   Whenever a police officer has knowledge that a person has failed
to satisfy five or more parking or traffic citations and that an arrest warrant
has been issued for the person for these citations, and whenever the officer
finds any vehicle registered in the name of the person upon any street, he or
she may impound or immobilize the vehicle.
      (2)   Immobilization of a vehicle under this section shall be in a manner
so as to prevent its operation by means of a device which will cause no damage
to the vehicle unless the vehicle is moved. Notice of immobilization shall be
attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous manner.
      (3)   After impounding or immobilizing a vehicle under this section,
notice shall be given in writing to its owner.
(`81 Code, § 14-241) (Ord. 538, passed 1-21-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.02   Certain non-motorized traffic to obey traffic regulations
   
71.03   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
71.04   Obedience to authorities at school crossings required
   
71.05   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.07   Parades and processions
   
71.08   Noise restrictions
   
71.09   Pedestrian regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.20   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
71.21   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
71.22   Traffic-control device placement
   
71.23   Interference with official traffic-control devices
   
71.24   Board of Public Works and Safety to designate crosswalks
   
71.25   Traffic lanes
Traffic Rules
   
71.35   Regulation of speed
   
71.36   Regulation of turns by traffic-control devices
   
71.37   U-turns restricted
   
71.38   Intersections where stop or yield is required
   
71.39   Yield right-of-way at alley exit
   
71.40   Stop required when traffic obstructed
   
71.41   Drivers in procession
   
71.42   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.43   Unlawful riding
   
71.44   Driving upon sidewalk prohibited
   
71.45   Regulation of motor vehicles in vicinity of fires
   
71.46   Containment of loads
   
71.47   Unattended motor vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department or any officers that are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal, in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic, as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct traffic in the immediate vicinity of a fire.
   (C)   School crossing guards are authorized to direct traffic at designated
school crossings during periods of arrival or departure of school children.
(`81 Code, 14-52)
§ 71.02 CERTAIN NON-MOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling a pushcart, riding an animal or driving any animal-
drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
chapter, except those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature
have no application.
(`81 Code, 14-54)
§ 71.03 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state or any political
subdivision of the state, subject to any specific exceptions that are set forth
in this chapter or in the state vehicle code.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons, motor
vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work on a street, but
shall apply to any persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
(`81 Code, § 14-56)
§ 71.04 OBEDIENCE TO AUTHORITIES AT SCHOOL CROSSINGS REQUIRED.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, Fire Department official, adult school
crossing guard or a member of a school safety patrol while the individual is
engaged in controlling traffic at a school crossing.
(Ord. 592, passed 9-17-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in, or by means of, any coaster,
sled, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk. When so crossing, the person shall be granted
all of the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.
(`81 Code, 14-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exceed the maximum speed limits established in this code, or may park or stand,
irrespective of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not relieve the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard
for the safety of all persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from
the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(`81 Code, 14-57)
§ 71.07 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, the United States Armed
Forces, the military forces of this state and the forces of police and fire
departments shall occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Police Department and any other
regulations set forth which may apply.
(`81 Code, 14-126) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured
on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated db (A).
      DECIBEL (db). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, and equal to 20
times the logarithm to, the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons
per square meter).
      MODIFIED AND DEFECTIVE EXHAUST SYSTEMS. An exhaust system in which the
original noise abatement devices have been physically altered, causing them to
be less effective in reducing noise as their original devices, or devices have
been added to the original noise abatement devices so that noise levels are
increased.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes but is not limited to automobiles, motorcycles,
mopeds, trucks and recreational vehicles.
      NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by or from a motor
vehicle.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any area over which the public has a right-of-way. By way of
example and not of limitation, streets, alleys and sidewalks are PUBLIC WAYS.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier,
RMS detector, integrator or time averager, output meter, and weighting networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. The instrument shall be used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a db (A) scale.
      TRAFFIC NOISE. Sound made by or from a motor vehicle operated either on
the public right-of-way or private property.
   (B)   All definitions and terminology used in this section and not defined
above shall be defined in conformance with, and applicable publication of, the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise levels from the
operation or use of motor vehicles in excess of 83 db (A) in any area within
the corporate limits of the city at any time. This noise level limit shall be
measured on a distance of not less than 15 feet from the noise source.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to so operate, cause to
operate or use a motor vehicle to cause excessive noise levels as a result of a
defective of modified exhaust system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid
acceleration, deceleration, revving or tire squeal, or as the result of the
operation of audio devices such as, but not limited to, radios, phonographs and
tape players on or from the vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, during the operation of any
motor vehicle, to engage or cause to be engaged an exhaust brake on said motor
vehicle, which is sometimes known as a “jake brake.”
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Lawnmowers, garden tractors and similar home power tools when
properly muffled;
      (3)   Burglar alarms on motor vehicles of the electronic signaling type
which transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried by the
owner or operator of the vehicle.
   (F)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this section, the court
may admit evidence of a noise level as tested by a sound level meter which
meets or exceeds the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
specifications for type II equipment. A person shall be found guilty of
violation of this section for the emission of the excessive noise from or on
any motor vehicle source in excess of the limitations established herein.
(Ord. 559, passed 6-30-1981; Am. Ord. 1101, passed 3-7-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except where otherwise indicated by a crosswalk or other official
traffic-control devices, a pedestrian shall cross a roadway at right angles to
the roadway or by the shortest route to the opposite side.
(`81 Code, § 14-132)
   (B)   No person shall stand in a street except in preparation of or while
crossing the street.
(`81 Code, § 14-133) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.20 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall place and maintain official
traffic-control devices when and as required under this code to make its
provisions effective.
   (B)   It may place and maintain any additional official traffic-control
devices as it may deem necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under this
code or the state vehicle laws.
(`81 Code, § 14-70)
§ 71.21 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the State
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways. All signs
and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall be uniform as to
type and location throughout the city. All traffic-control devices so erected,
and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this code, shall be
official traffic-control devices.
(`81 Code, § 14-71)
§ 71.22 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE PLACEMENT.
   (A)   No provision of this code for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that official traffic-control devices are required, the
section shall be effective even though no devices are in place.
(`81 Code, § 14-71)
   (B)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in positions
approximately conforming to the requirements of this section, the devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, and shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
section, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(`81 Code, § 14-73)
§ 71.23 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
damage or remove any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
(`81 Code, 14-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.24 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to designate and
maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the
roadway for crosswalks at intersections, where, in its opinion, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at any other places
as it may deem necessary.
(`81 Code, § 14-74)
§ 71.25 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to mark traffic
lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the
city.
(`81 Code, § 14-75)
TRAFFIC RULES
§ 71.35 REGULATION OF SPEED.
   (A)   By engineering and traffic investigation, the proper maximum speed for
all local streets that are not otherwise posted and signed within the corporate
limits of the city is 30 miles per hour.
(Ord. 766, passed 6-19-1995)
   (B)   When the city, as authorized by state law, hereby declares and
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that
certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in
certain areas, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a
speed in excess of any speed so determined when signs are in place giving
notice thereof.
(`81 Code, § 14-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.36 REGULATION OF TURNS BY TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to place official
traffic-control devices, within or adjacent to intersections, indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at intersections. The course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
(`81 Code, § 14-97)
§ 71.37 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district.
(`81 Code, § 14-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.38 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD IS REQUIRED.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to determine and
designate intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
   (A)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to the
intersection, in which event it shall have erected a stop sign at every place
where a stop is required; or
   (B)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at the intersection, in which event it shall have erected a
yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
(`81 Code, § 14-110)
§ 71.39 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY AT ALLEY EXIT.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter a street from an alley shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians approaching on the street.
(`81 Code, § 14-113)
§ 71.40 STOP REQUIRED WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(`81 Code, § 14-124) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.41 DRIVERS IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable, and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(`81 Code, § 14-125)
§ 71.42 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
(`81 Code, § 14-127) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.43 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(`81 Code, § 14-128) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.44 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
    No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area, except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
(`81 Code, § 14-129) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.45 REGULATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES IN VICINITY OF FIRES.
   (A)   On approach of any motor vehicle, apparatus or other vehicle of the
City Fire Department which is sounding a siren, the driver of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle other than motor vehicle, apparatus or
other vehicle of the Department shall drive as close as possible to the right-
hand curb of the street of thoroughfare and come to a complete stop, and shall
not follow within 600 feet of the Fire Department motor vehicle, apparatus or
other vehicle after the same has passed.
   (B)   No motor vehicle, motorcycle of other vehicle, except by direction of
the Chief of the Fire Department or officer of the Fire Department in charge of
a fire at the time, shall approach or park within 600 feet of any fire.
(`81 Code, § 10-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 33
§ 71.46 CONTAINMENT OF LOADS.
   Any person hauling stone, oil, rubbish or any other material shall see that
the vehicle shall be of adequate dimensions and tight, so that none of the
material shall fall from the vehicle. Any material falling from a vehicle shall
be promptly removed from the street by the driver, who shall be responsible for
any damage done.
(`81 Code, § 14-130)
§ 71.47 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit the motor
vehicle to stand unattended without first stopping the engine.
(`81 Code, § 14-131) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Obedience required; applicability
Operational Regulations
   
72.35   Applicability of traffic regulations
   
72.36   Parking
   
72.37   Riding on sidewalks restricted
   
72.38   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The parent of any child, and the guardian of any ward, shall not
authorize or knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway, or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(`81 Code, § 14-144)
OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 72.35 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations, and except as to those provisions
which, by their nature, can have no application.
(`81 Code, § 14-152)
§ 72.36 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway,
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk, in a rack to support the bicycle,
against a building, or at the curb in a manner so as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. No bicycle shall be parked against or
secured to any fire hydrant or police or fire call box.
(`81 Code, § 14-153) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.37 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(`81 Code, § 14-154) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.38 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(`81 Code, § 14-155) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall
be punished by a fine, or by impounding the person’s bicycle for a period not
to exceed 30 days, or by a combination thereof.
(`81 Code, § 14-156)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Obstruction of traffic prohibited
   
73.02   Alley parking restricted
   
73.03   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.04   Prohibited activities on parked motor vehicles
   
73.05   Obedience to parking signs or markings required
   
73.06   Large vehicle restricted parking
   
73.07   Standing in loading zones restricted
   
73.08   Bus stop regulations
   
73.09   Parking signs required
   
73.10   Applicability of parking schedules
   
73.11   Parking for persons with disabilities
   
73.12   Prohibiting and restricting the parking of certain watercrafts, motor
homes, campers, recreational vehicles and trailers within the city
§ 73.01 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley,
in a manner, or under certain conditions, so as to leave available less than
ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(`81 Code, § 14-176)
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a lane of traffic not
designed for parking, unless directed to do so by a police officer or official
traffic-control device, or if waiting to enter a parking space, or necessitated
by mechanical failure.
(`81 Code, § 14-182)
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of this code, the officer is hereby authorized to require the driver
or other person in charge of the vehicle to remove the same to a position off
the paved, improved or main traveled part of the street, provided that if any
person so directed shall fail or refuse to move the vehicle, or if the vehicle
is unattended, then the officer is authorized to provide for the removal of the
vehicle to the nearest available garage or other place of safety.
(`81 Code, § 14-176) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 ALLEY PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle on the east side of an alley, running
in a north-south direction, or on the south side of any alley, running in an
east-west direction.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in an alley shall be parked with the wheels
parallel with and within 12 inches of the edge of the alley, and shall leave
available 8 feet of the width of the alley for the free movement of traffic.
(`81 Code, § 14-177) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying the vehicle for sale or greasing or repairing the vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(`81 Code, § 14-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES ON PARKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand, sit, lie or lounge on the top
or hood of any motor vehicle while the motor vehicle is parked on any of the
public streets or alleys in the city, and it shall also be unlawful for any
person to stand in the public streets or alleys while talking to a person while
the person is standing, sitting, lying or lounging on the top or hood of any
motor vehicle or seated inside the motor vehicle while the motor vehicle is
parked on any of the public streets or alleys in the city, and it shall
furthermore be unlawful for any person to stand in the public streets or alleys
in the city when the standing impairs the flow of motor vehicle traffic within
the city.
(Ord. 771, passed 10-2-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 OBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS REQUIRED.
   In those locations that have been officially signed or marked for parking on
the streets or in municipal parking lots, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle, other than within any markings, and at the orientation indicated by
the signs or markings.
(`81 Code, § 14-179) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 LARGE VEHICLE RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section and, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any
person or property is or may be transported upon a street or highway which
contains its own means of propulsion and is engaged in commerce. Said
definition shall include privately owned school buses operated on a contract
basis on behalf of a school corporation.
      LARGE VEHICLES DEFINED. Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of 26,001 or more pounds, and any trailer whose function is to be towed
which weighs in excess of 10,000 pounds. These include, but are not limited to,
straight trucks, buses, tractors and trailers, and trailers in excess of 10,000
pounds.
   (B)   (1)   The parking of a commercial self-propelled vehicle in
residential zoning districts shall be prohibited, except that one commercial
vehicle of not more than three tons in capacity may be parked on any lot on
which there is located a principal building; provided, however, such a vehicle
is parked in an enclosed garage, accessory building or rear yard that is used
by a resident of the lot on which the vehicle is parked. This shall not be
interpreted to prohibit commercial vehicles from temporarily loading and
unloading in any residential district.
      (2)   The owner of any such commercial self-propelled vehicle found to be
parked in a residential zoning district in violation of this provision shall be
subject to citation and fines as set forth herein.
      (3)   In the event that the owner of a commercial self-propelled vehicle
wishes to park such a vehicle in a residential zoning district, said owner
shall apply to the Board of Works and Safety for a permit specifically allowing
such parking. Any application for such parking must identify the specific
location of such proposed parking and indicate the time of day and duration of
said proposed parking. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall seek advice
and comment from the city Police Department regarding any such application and
may thereafter approve or deny said application on a case-by-case basis. There
shall be no fee for any such parking permit if approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
   (C)   Whenever a member of the Police Department shall be informed in
writing that any provision of division (B) above has been or is being violated
by the owner or operator of any commercial self- propelled vehicle by three
different landowners who reside within 500 feet of the alleged violation, the
member of the Police Department shall issue a citation for the violation of
this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any large vehicle to be parked in the areas
designated in
Chapter 75, Parking Schedule III.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D) above, the parking of a
large vehicle in the aforementioned restricted areas shall be allowed under the
following exceptional circumstances:
      (1)   When necessary for the preservation of life or property, for
example, fire or other emergency vehicles;
      (2)   When necessary in order for the operator of a large vehicle to load
or unload; provided, however, that while loading or unloading, the operator of
the large vehicle shall take precautions appropriate to the circumstances to
insure that the large vehicle is visible to other vehicles using the street
which precautions shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The large vehicle must be properly attended and marked, front
and rear, with a traffic cone or other similar device;
         (b)   The large vehicle must be parked in a manner so as to cause only
a minimum of obstruction to the regular flow of traffic; and
         (c)   When loading or unloading in semidarkness, the large vehicle's
flashers, front and rear, must be turned on and operating.
      (3)   When necessary for loading or unloading passengers on or from buses
including, but not limited to, school buses, city buses and church buses, with
the further provision that after unloading the passengers, no bus shall remain
parked on the street for more than 30 minutes. If more than 30 minutes shall
intervene between the time any bus offloads and onloads its passengers, the bus
shall move to another location upon a different city street.
   (F)   Any commercial self-propelled vehicle shall not be allowed to have its
engine operating, whether gas or diesel, in an idling mode for more than 30
minutes in a stationary, fixed position while parked on any city street within
the city.
   (G)   No separate trailer whose function is to be towed which weighs in
excess of 10,000 pounds shall be disconnected from any tractor and have its
stanchions extended perpendicular to the trailer body and left parked on any
paved street within the city.
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation violating divisions (B) through (D)
above shall be fined for each offense, which fines shall increase if compliance
is not achieved within two hours of the time of the issuance of the citation.
If any violation is allowed to continue for over 24 hours from the time of the
issuance of the citation, then the city shall cause any vehicle in violation to
be towed away at the owner's expense.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation violating division (F) above shall be
fined, which fine shall be increased if the idling continues for more than 30
minutes after the citation is issued.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation violating division (G) above shall be
fined, which fine shall be increased if the trailer is not removed within two
hours after the operator is notified of the citation, or whenever the Street
Department Superintendent in his or her discretion determines that it needs to
be moved to prevent damage to the paved roadway. If the trailer is allowed to
remain in a prohibited area for over 24 hours, the city shall cause the trailer
to be towed away at the owner's or operator's expense.
(Ord. 808, passed 4-13-1998; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 STANDING IN LOADING ZONES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or
materials, in any place marked as a loading zone, during hours and days when
the regulations applicable to the curb loading zone are effective, and then
only for a period not to exceed three minutes for passengers or 20 minutes for
materials.
(`81 Code, § 14-194) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 BUS STOP REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop or loading zone on a
public street in a manner so that the bus, when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
(`81 Code, § 14-197)
   (C)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop
when the stop has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except
that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when
the stopping does not interfere with any bus entering, occupying or departing
the zone.
(`81 Code, § 14-198) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.09 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and
Safety to erect appropriate signs giving notice. No prohibited or time-
restricted parking regulation shall be effective unless the signs are erected
and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(`81 Code, § 14-211)
§ 73.10 APPLICABILITY OF PARKING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The provisions of
Chapter 75 prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all
times or at those times herein specified, or as indicated on official signs,
except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or official
traffic-control device.
   (B)   The provisions of
Chapter 75 imposing a time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from
the duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or
limiting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or
at specified times.
(`81 Code, § 14-210)
§ 73.11 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   A resident of the city who has physical disabilities which impair that
person’s ability to ambulate from his or her motor vehicle to his or her
residence can request a disabled parking restriction in front of their
residence for assistance in ingress and egress to their home.
   (B)   Such a person must provide adequate written documentation to the Board
of Public Works and Safety to show that they qualify for such disability
parking restriction. The adequacy of such written documentation shall be in the
sole discretion of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   Upon qualifying for such restricted disability parking privileges, the
applicant should pay a fee of $50 to the Clerk-Treasurer of the city, and the
city Street Department shall then adequately post a sign(s) which shall reflect
that such area(s) in the sum of 20 feet is a disability parking area(s) and
that a violation of this restricted parking area will result in the towing of
the motor vehicle parked in violation of the disability restricted parking.
   (D)   The city Police Department will have the authority to tow any motor
vehicles parked in violation of this schedule in a location where the person
violating the disability restricted parking would then have to pay a fee for
the towing and possible storage of that motor vehicle which is in violation of
this schedule.
   (E)   When the resident no longer needs the restricted disability parking
area, that person or his or her representative shall then notify the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city, and the restricted parking in that area(s) will then be
immediately terminated and returned to its status as normal parking.
(Ord. 1012, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 73.12 PROHIBITING AND RESTRICTING THE PARKING OF CERTAIN WATERCRAFTS, MOTOR
HOMES, CAMPERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPER. Includes a pick-up camper, truck camper, and any other vehicle
fitted or suitable for recreational camping.
      MOTOR HOME. A small bus or truck like vehicle with a roomlike area behind
the driver’s seat outfitted as living quarters.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power equipped
exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling upon the highways.
      TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property which is designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
      WATERCRAFT. A contrivance used or defined for navigation on water
including a vessel, boat, motor vessel, sailboat, vessel operated by machinery
either permanently or temporarily affixed, or any other marine equipment that
is capable of carrying passengers, and which is situated on a trailer with a
valid and current registration and license.
   (B)   Trailers cannot be parked in any city right-of-way for more than two
days, ("a day" being any portion of a 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
and ending at midnight on the same date) and being not necessarily consecutive
days, in any calendar week. However, if a building permit has been issued for
the real estate location in front of which the trailer is parked, said trailer
can be allowed to be parked on the city right-of-way for such period of time as
may be determined by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   All of the vehicles defined above except trailers are allowed to be
parked on city rights-of-way, but only one such vehicle per owner may be parked
on those rights-of-way and only if such vehicle is parked in front of the
primary residence of the owner of such vehicle.
   (D)   All of the vehicles listed above must comply with all statutory
traffic laws within the State of Indiana at all times. This includes as
examples only, and not as an exhaustive list, current registration plates and
appropriate reflective material, required by such statutes.
   (E)   All vehicles listed above must be in good working order, and if three
or more complaints are received by appropriate representatives of the city
regarding the condition of any such vehicle which is not in good working order,
said vehicle must be moved off the city right-of-way until said vehicle is
restored to good working order to be in compliance with this section.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
a fine of $50 for the first offense and $75 for the second or subsequent
offense within any 12 month period. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues. The Tell City
Police Department shall have authority to enforce the terms of this section and
shall further have the authority to cause any vehicle illegally parked to be
towed at the owner’s expense. Said vehicle may then be stored at the cost of
the owner until such time as the owner has paid the towing costs and storage
costs in full.
(Ord. 1090, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 3-7-16)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Restricted turn signs
   
III.   Stop streets
   
IV.   Yield streets
   
V.   Dead end streets
   
VI.   Traffic-control indicators
   
VII.   Load restrictions
   
VIII.   Driving through city park
   
IX.   Traffic lane restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined, upon the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation, that the speed permitted by state law on the following streets
or portions thereof is different than is reasonable and safe under the
conditions found to exist upon the segments.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that the maximum speed limit on these segments
herein designated shall be as follows, which speeds shall be effective at the
times specified when signs are erected giving notice.
   (C)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with state law, the maximum lawful speed limit in any alley shall be
15 miles per hour, and no person shall drive a vehicle in an alley in excess of
such limit.
(‘81 Code, § 14-86)
Street Location Direction Speed When Applicable `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street     Location                                                      Direction  Speed When          `81  Ord. Date
                                                                                          Applicable    Code No.  Passed
          Within Hagedon Park, Sun Set Park and the City Park where                10    All times     -    766  6-19-
           City Hall is located                                                     mph                           1995
                                                                                          When speed
10th       Between Herrman and Rubens Street                                        10    limit signs   -    794  6-2-
Street                                                                              mph   are posted in           1997
                                                                                          intersections
                                                                                          When speed
11th       Between Herrman and Rubens Street                                        10    limit signs   -    794  6-2-
Street                                                                              mph   are posted in           1997
                                                                                          intersections
13th       From Steuben Street to corporate line                         Northbound 25    All times     14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                              mph                 87        1980
21st       1500 Block                                                    North and  20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Street                                                                   South      mph                           2015
22nd       1500 Block                                                    North and  20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Street                                                                   South      mph                           2015
22nd       1600 Block                                                    North and  20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Street                                                                   South      mph                           2015
Front      Behind flood wall                                                        10    All times     -    648  9-6-
Street                                                                              mph                           1988
                                                                                          When speed
Herrman    Between 10th Street and 11th Street                                      10    limit signs   -    794  6-2-
Street                                                                              mph   are posted in           1997
                                                                                          intersections
Main       ½ block south of Tell Street to end                          Southbound 25    All times     14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                              mph                 87        1980
Main       ½ block north of Washington Street to Fulton Street          Northbound 25    All times     14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                              mph                 87        1980
Main       ½ block south of Schiller Street to ½ block south of Rubens Northbound 25    All times     14-  -    1-21-
Street     Street                                                                   mph                 87        1980
Mozart     East of 19th Street to the intersection of Tell Street Road              40    All times     -    893  5-5-
Street     and Mozart Street                                                        mph                           2003
Mozart     East of 35th Street, then west to the intersection of Tell               40    All times     -    1070 7-1-
Street     Street Road and Mozart Street                                            mph                           2013
North                                                                   North and  20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Ridge Road                                                               South      mph                           2015
River Road ½ block south of Boundary Street to corporate line           Southbound 25    All times     14-  -    1-21-
                                                                                    mph                 87        1980
Road to
Perry      East from State Road 66 to end                                Eastbound  20    All times     14-  -    1-21-
County                                                                              mph                 87        80
Fairground
                                                                                          When speed
Rubens     Between 10th Street and 11th Street                                      10    limit signs   -    794  6-2-
Street                                                                              mph   are posted in           1997
                                                                                          intersections
Steuben    2000 Block                                                    East and   20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Street                                                                   West       mph                           2015
Steuben    2100 Block                                                    East and   20    All times     -    1088 4-6-
Street                                                                   West       mph                           2015
Tell                                                                                20                  14-       1-21-
Street     ½ block east of 36th Street to ½ block west of 32nd Street  Westbound  mph   All times     87   -    1980
Road
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left
or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at the intersections.
   (B)   The making of turns at the following locations may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when
the turns are permitted.
Street Direction Cross  Restricted When       `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
       of Travel Street Maneuver   Restricted
Street    Direction  Cross      Restricted When       `81 Code Ord. No. Date
          of Travel  Street     Maneuver   Restricted                   Passed
Lafayette Westbound  13th       No left    All times  -        666      10-2-
                     Street     turn                                    1989
Main      Northbound Franklin   No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Franklin   No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Northbound Fulton     No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Fulton     No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Northbound Humboldt   No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Humboldt   No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Northbound Jefferson  No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Jefferson  No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Northbound Mozart     No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Mozart     No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Northbound Pestalozzi No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
Main      Southbound Pestalozzi No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-
Street               Street                                             1980
 
 
Street Direction  Cross      Restricted When       `81 Code Ord. No. Date
       of Travel  Street     Maneuver   Restricted                   Passed
Main   Northbound Tell       No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street            Street
Main   Northbound Washington No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street            Street
Main   Southbound Washington No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street            Street
Tell   Westbound  9th Street No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street
Tell   Westbound  10th       No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street            Street
Tell   Westbound  13th       No U-turn  All times  14-99    -        1-21-1980
Street            Street
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the streets at the following
intersections shall be stop streets. Drivers of all vehicles shall stop, as
required by state law, before entering the described intersection.
Street Location Type of Stop Direction `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Location     Type of Stop Direction  `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
5th Street   At Fulton    2-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Fulton    2-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Jefferson 2-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Jefferson 2-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Schiller  2-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Schiller  2-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Tell      2-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
5th Street   At Tell      2-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
7th Street   At Tell                  Northbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
9th Street   At Herrman                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
9th Street   At Humboldt  4-way stop                       1157     12-2-2019
             St.
9th Street   At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
9th Street   At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
9th Street   Washington                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
10th Street  At Blum                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
10th Street  Guttenberg               Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
10th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
10th Street  Washington               Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
10th Street  Winkelreid   4-way stop                       931      3-7-2005
             Street
11th Street  Humboldt     4-way stop                       1214     2-5-2024
             Street
11th Street  At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
11th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
11th Street  At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
11th Street  Washington                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
11th Street  Winkelried               Northbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
12th Street  Guttenberg               Northbound          1055     8-6-2012
             Street
             At
12th Street  Guttenberg               Southbound          1055     8-6-2012
             Street
             At
12th Street  Winkelreid               Northbound          1073     12-2-2013
             Street
             At
12th Street  Winkelreid               Southbound          1073     12-2-2013
             Street
13th Street  At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
13th Street  Pestalozzi                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
13th Street  At Tell                  Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
13th Street  Washington                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
14th Street  At Franklin                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
14th Street  At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
14th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
14th Street  Pestalozzi                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
14th Street  At Schiller              Northbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
14th Street  At Tell                  Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
15th Street  At Jefferson 4-way stop              14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
                                                           931      3-7-2005
15th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
15th Street  At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
15th Street  Washington   4-way stop                       931      3-7-2005
             Street
16th Street  At Jefferson             Northbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
16th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
             At
16th Street  Pestalozzi   4-way stop              14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
                                                           931      3-7-2005
16th Street  At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
17th Street  At Franklin              Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
17th Street  At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
17th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
17th Street  At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
18th Street  At Fulton                Northbound -        877      3-4-2002
             Street
18th Street  At Fulton                Southbound -        877      3-4-2002
             Street
18th Street  At Jefferson                        14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
18th Street  At Mozart                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
18th Street  At Tell                  Northbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
19th Street  At Franklin                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
19th Street  At Mozart    4-way stop              -        776      2-5-1996
             Street
             At
19th Street  Pestalozzi               Southbound 14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
20th Street  At Jefferson 3-way stop   Northbound -        947      1-3-2006
             Street
20th Street  At Jefferson 3-way stop   Southbound -        947      1-3-2006
             Street
20th Street  At Jefferson 3-way stop   Westbound  -        947      1-3-2006
             Street
20th Street  At Franklin                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
20th Street  At Franklin                         -        1032     7-6-2010
             Street
20th Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
20th Street  At Rubens                           -        666      10-2-1989
             Street
21st Street  At Franklin                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
21st Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
21st Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
22nd Street  At Franklin                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
22nd Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
23rd Street  At Franklin  2-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
23rd Street  At Franklin  2-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
23rd Street  Jefferson    4-way stop              -        893      5-5-2003
             Street
23rd Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
24th Street  At Franklin  2-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
24th Street  At Franklin  2-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
25th Street  At Franklin               Northbound -        877      3-4-2002
             Street
                                                           958      6-5-2006
25th Street  At Franklin               Southbound -        877      3-4-2002
             Street
                                                           958      6-5-2006
25th Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
31st Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
32nd Street  At Fulton    3-way stop   Northbound -        1188     7-20-2022
             Street                    Southbound
32nd Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
33rd Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
             Street
36th Street  At Tell                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street Road
36th Street  At State                            -        766      6-19-1995
             Road 237
             At
Altdorf Lane Guttenberg   2-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
             At
Altdorf Lane Guttenberg   2-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
Blum Street  At 9th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
Blum Street  At 11th      2-way street Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
Blum Street  At 11th      2-way street Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Street
Blum Street  At Main                  Westbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
Dekalb       At 12th                  Westbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fairlane     At Roy Fenn  2-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
Drive        Drive
Fairlane     At Roy Fenn  2-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
Drive        Drive
Franklin     At 9th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Franklin     At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
                                                           648      9-6-1988
Franklin     At 13th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Franklin     At 16th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Franklin     At 18th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Franklin     At 19th                   Eastbound
Street       Street                   and        -        776      2-5-1996
                                       westbound
Franklin     At Main                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
                                                           923      12-6-2004
                                                           927-A    1-4-2005
Fuller       At Duee                                      918      8-2-2004
Street       Street
Fulton       At 9th       4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fulton       At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fulton       At 13th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fulton       At 15th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fulton       At 19th                  Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Fulton       At 30th      4-way stop              -        648      9-6-1988
Street       Street
Fulton       At 31st      4-way stop              -        648      9-6-1988
Street       Street
Fulton       At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Geneva Drive At Romont    1-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Way
Guttenberg   At 9th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Guttenberg   At 11th      2-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
Street       Street
Guttenberg   At 11th      2-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
Street       Street
Herrman      At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Herrman      At 11th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Herrman      At 19th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Herrman      At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
High Street  At Riverview                                 918      8-2-2004
             Drive
Humboldt     At 9th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 10th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 11th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 13th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 16th                  Eastbound           1005     10-6-2008
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 16th                  Westbound           1005     10-6-2008
Street       Street
Humboldt     At 19th                  Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Humboldt     At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 7th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 19th                  Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 21st                  Eastbound  -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 21st                  Westbound  -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 22nd                  Eastbound  -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 22nd                  Westbound  -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 23rd      4-way stop              -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
                                                        893      5-5-2003
Jefferson    At 30th      4-way stop                       931      3-7-2005
Street       Street
Jefferson    At 31st      3-way stop                       958      6-5-2006
Street       Street
Jefferson    At Main                                      923      12-6-2004
Street       Street
Lafayette    At 9th                              -        697      10-7-1991
Street       Street
Lafayette    At 10th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Lafayette    At 11th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Lafayette    At 13th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
             At the first
Lafayette    alley east                          14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       of 13th
             Street
Lafayette    At 19th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Lafayette    At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Loop Drive   At Roy Fenn  2-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Drive
Loop Drive   At Roy Fenn  2-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
             Drive
             At
Luzern Lane  Guttenberg   1-way stop   Northbound          958      6-5-2006
             Street
             At William
Luzern Lane  Tell         4-way stop              -        725      2-15-1993
             Boulevard
Main Street  At Humbolt   4-way stop                       923      12-6-2004
             Street
Mozart       At 9th       4-way stop                       918      8-2-2004
Street       Street
Mozart       At 13th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Mozart       At 19th                  Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Mozart       At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Mozart       At State                            -        766      6-19-1995
Street       Road 237
Old Highway  At Hospital                         14-112   -        1-21-1980
Road         Road
Park Avenue  At Hospital                                  918      8-2-2004
             Road
Park Avenue  At Duee                                      918      8-2-2004
             Street
Park Avenue  At Riverview                                 918      8-2-2004
             Drive
Peach Tree   At Orchard               Eastbound  -        714      7-20-1992
Lane         Hill Drive
Perry        At Burglen   1-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
Parkway      Hills Drive
Perry        At Geneva    1-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
Parkway      Drive
Pestalozzi   At 9th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Pestalozzi   At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Pestalozzi   At 11th                             -        716      8-17-1992
Street       Street
Pestalozzi   At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Ridgeview    At Old                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Drive        Highway Road
Ridgeview    Hospital                                     918      8-2-2004
Drive        Road
Romont Way   At Lehman    1-way stop   Westbound           958      6-5-2006
             Drive
Rolling      At Orchard   1-way stop   Southbound          958      6-5-2006
Pines Drive  Hill Drive
Rubens       At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Rubens       At 11th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Rubens       At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Schiller     At 6th                              -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Schiller     At 6th                              -        843      3-6-2000
Street       Street
Schiller     At 10th                             14-112   882-A    6-3-2002
Street       Street
Schiller     At 13th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Schiller     At Main                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Steuben      At 9th       4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Steuben      At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Steuben      At 12th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Tell Street  At 6th                   Westbound  -        841      2-7-2000
             Street
Tell Street  At 6th                   Eastbound  -        841      2-7-2000
             Street
Tell Street  At 10th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
             Street
Tell Street  At 19th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
             Street
Tell Street  At 31st      4-way stop                       931      3-7-2005
             Street
Tell Street  At Mozart                           -        766      6-19-1995
Road         Street
Washington   At 7th                              14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Washington   At 14th      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Washington   At Main      4-way stop              14-111   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Watt Street  At 10th      4-way stop              14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
                                                        931      3-7-2005
Watt Street  At 12th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Street
William Tell At Altodorf              Westbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Boulevard    Lane
William Tell At Altorf                           -        648      9-6-1988
Boulevard    Lane
William Tell At Burglen                          -        666      10-2-1989
Boulevard    Hills Drive
William Tell At Leman                 Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
Boulevard    Drive
William Tell At
Boulevard    Pestalozzi               Eastbound  14-112   -        1-21-1980
             Road
William Tell At Romont                           14-112   -        1-21-1980
Boulevard    Way
Winkelried   At 10th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Winkelried   At 12th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Winkelried   At 13th                             14-112   -        1-21-1980
Street       Street
Woodland     At Peach     1-way stop   Eastbound           958      6-5-2006
Court        Tree Lane
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the streets at the following
intersections shall be yield streets. Drivers of all vehicles on these streets
shall yield the right-of-way, as required by state law, before entering the
described intersection.
 
Yield Street Direction Cross Street `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Yield Street      Direction  Cross Street    `81 Code  Ord. No. Date Passed
11th Street                 Steuben Street  14-114    -        1-21-1980
15th Street                 Franklin Street 14-114    -        1-21-1980
23rd Street       Southbound Franklin Street -         776      2-5-1996
25th Street       Southbound Franklin Street -         776      2-5-1996
Franklin Street              7th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Franklin Street              11th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                5th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                7th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                11th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                14th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                17th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Fulton Street                18th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Humboldt Street              7th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Jefferson Street             5th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Jefferson Street             6th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Lafayette Street  Eastbound  6th Street      14-114(a) 887      9-3-2002
Lafayette Street  Westbound  6th Street      14-114(a) 887      9-3-2002
Mozart Street                7th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Rubens Street                9th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Rubens Street                13th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Schiller Street              5th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Schiller Street              11th Street     14-114    -        1-21-1980
Steuben Street    West       14th Street               1201     5-15-2023
Tell Street                  5th Street      14-114    -        1-21-1980
Winkelreid Street            14th Street     -         718      11-2-1992
 
(Am. Ord. 716, passed 8-17-1992; Am. Ord. 697, passed 10-7-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE V. DEAD END STREETS.
   The following areas in the city shall have dead end signs posted for traffic
control, except for those entries which reflect only arrows being posted.
Location Direction of Traffic to Street on Which Dead End Special Provisions
         See Sign                Sign is Located
                    Direction of        Street on Which
Location            Traffic to See Sign Dead End Sign is Special Provisions
                                        Located
Alley between 18th                      North side of    Arrow pointing east
and 19th Streets    North               Humboldt Street  and west; arrow only
                                        right-of-way
Alley between 19th
and 20th Streets on South               Lafayette
Lafayette
Alley between 20th
and 21st Streets on South               Lafayette
Lafayette
Alley between 21st
and 22nd Streets on North               Tell Street
Tell Street
Intersection of
18th and Franklin   South               18th Street
Streets
Intersection of
19th and Jefferson  East                Jefferson Street
Streets
Intersection of
20th and Jefferson  West                20th Street      Arrow pointing south
Streets
Intersection of
20th and Jefferson  North               Jefferson Street Arrow pointing east
Streets
Intersection of
20th and Lafayette  South               20th Street
Streets
Intersection of
21st and Lafayette  South               21st Street
Streets
Intersection of
21st and Tell       North               21st Street
Streets
 
(Ord. 750, passed 6-20-1994)
SCHEDULE VI. TRAFFIC-CONTROL INDICATORS.
   The following traffic-control indicators shall be positioned at the
following locations.
 
Traffic-
Control   Location     Special Provisions
Indicator
          The 800
          block of 9th
          Street south
Crosswalk of the       This location will also have a posted sign reflecting it as a children’s
          intersection crosswalk
          of Fulton
          and 9th
          Street
          The 1500
          block of
          10th Street
          in front of
Crosswalk E & E Gun    This location shall also have a posted sign reflecting it as a pedestrian
          Shop south   crosswalk
          of the
          Steuben and
          10th Street
          intersection
          Main and
          Mozart
          Streets
 
(Ord. 648, passed 9-6-1988; Am. Ord. 923, passed 12-6-2004; Am. Ord. 929,
passed 2-28-2005)
SCHEDULE VII. LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   When signs are erected giving notice, no person shall operate any vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified at any time upon any of
the streets or parts of streets described as follows:
Street            Location                Gross Weight Limit
14th Street       Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
16th Street       Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
19th Street       Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
Block 120         In the alley            (No semi-tractor trucks)
Franklin Street   Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
Pestalozzi Street Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
Washington Street Bridge over Windy Creek Seven tons
 
(`81 Code, § 14-224) (Ord. passed 1-21-1980; Am. Ord. 966, passed 11-6-2006)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VIII. DRIVING THROUGH CITY PARK.
   Driving through City Park shall be subject to the following provisions.
 
Special Provisions
City Hall is presently located in City Park in Block 61 in the city. Presently
there is a roadway dedicated by the city for use by the public running in a
north-south direction. All vehicles operating in a north direction upon the
roadway shall keep to the right side of the roadway and shall drive around City
Hall only to the east side of City Hall, and all vehicles driving in a
southerly direction through City Park on the roadway shall keep to the right
side of the roadway and shall drive around City Hall only to the west side of
City Hall.
 
(Ord. 703, passed 1-20-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IX. TRAFFIC LANE RESTRICTIONS.
 
Traffic Lanes                           Restrictions
Northbound lane of 31st Street, from
the northerly terminus of the driveway
serving Ivy Tech (which is Lot 2 in     Changing lanes between the easterly
Block 506) to the terminus of 31st      northbound lane and the westerly
Street, which is on the north end of    northbound lane is prohibited, at any
the intersection of 31st Street and     point where such solid yellow line is
Layfayette Street, shall be divided     placed dividing said traffic lanes.
into two lanes of equal width. The
lanes shall be marked by a solid yellow
line.
Northerly terminus of 31st Street,      Vehicles shall be required to turn
easterly traffic lane of northbound     right
31st Street
Northerly terminus of 31st Street,
westerly traffic lane of northbound     Vehicles shall be required to turn left
31st Street
 
(Ord. 964, passed 11-6-2006)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
   
II.   Angle parking
   
III.   Large vehicle restricted parking areas
   
IV.   Loading zones
   
V.   Bus stops
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
within or upon any of the streets described when the following restrictions
apply.
Street Side(s) Location Restrictions `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street     Side  Location                                                             Restrictions `81  Ord.  Date
           (s)                                                                                     Code No.   Passed
                                                                                      Parking is              3-6-
                On the boat ramp to the Ohio River behind the flood wall in the city prohibited   -    843   2000
                                                                                      at all times
           East                                                                       Parking is              10-6-
5th Street and   Jefferson Street to Fulton Street                                    prohibited   -    1079  2014
           west                                                                       at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
                 Lots 5 and 6 in Block 48 (from the north side of Tell City National  of one hour             8-2-
7th Street East  Bank parking lot to the south side of the same lot                   from 8:00    -    739   1993
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
                                                                                      Parking is   14-        1-21-
7th Street East  ½ block south of Franklin Street to Franklin Street                 prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is   14-        1-21-
7th Street West  ¼ block south of Franklin Street to ¼ block north of Humboldt Streeprohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is   14-        1-21-
9th Street East  ½ block north of Guttenberg Street to ¼ block south of Blum Street prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
                 From 945 9th Street (Beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 16 in  of two hours            8-6-
9th Street West  Block 59 and south for 40 feet in the city                           from 6:00    -    869   1901
                                                                                      a.m. to 6:00
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Saturday
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      prohibited
10th                                                                                  from 7:00    14-        1-21-
Street     East  ¼ block south of Fulton Street to ¼ block north of Jefferson Streeta.m. to 4:00 214  -     1980
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
                                                                                      Parking is
10th                                                                                  restricted              9-6-
Street     East  In Front of E & E Gun Shop                                           to a period  -    648   1988
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      for a period
                                                                                      of 2 hours
                                                                                      from 6:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 6:00
                                                                                      p.m. every
                                                                                      day except
                                                                                      there is
10th             1500 Block 10th Street between Payne Street and Steuben Street       residential             2-4-
Street     East  except 72 feet in front of a residence which is Lot 9 and the south  parking only      990   2008
                 half of Lot 10 in Block 88                                           all the time
                                                                                      in the 72
                                                                                      feet
                                                                                      fronting the
                                                                                      residence on
                                                                                      Lot 9 and
                                                                                      the south
                                                                                      half of Lot
                                                                                      10 in Block
                                                                                      88
                                                                                      Parking is
10th       West  From Humboldt Street to ½ block north of Humboldt Street            prohibited   14-  -     1-21-
Street                                                                                on school    214        1980
                                                                                      days
                                                                                      Parking is
10th       West  From Fulton Street to Jefferson Street                               prohibited   14-  -     1-21-
Street                                                                                on school    214        1980
                                                                                      days
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      for a period
10th       West  1500 Block 10th Street between Payne Street and Steuben Street       of 2 hours        990   2-4-
Street                                                                                from 6:00               2008
                                                                                      a.m. to 6:00
                                                                                      p.m. every
                                                                                      day
                                                                                      Residential
                                                                                      parking only
10th       West  Lots 23 and 24 in Block 71                                           for          -    1108  8-1-
Street                                                                                residents of            2016
                                                                                      said area at
                                                                                      all times
                                                                                      Residential
                                                                                      parking only
11th       East  Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 in Block 107                             for          -    1020  10-5-
Street                                                                                residents of            2009
                                                                                      said area at
                                                                                      all times
                                                                                      Parking is
11th                                                                                  restricted              12-5-
Street     East  Block 112, Lots 5-10                                                 to a period  -    1196  2022
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
13th                                                                                  Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     East  ¼ block south of Payne Street to ¼ block north of Herrman Street   prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents
                                                                                      whose homes
13th       East  A distance of 240 feet on the west side north from the southeast     affront the             10-2-
Street     and   corner of Block 131, and 240 feet on the east side north of the      designated   -    770   1995
           west  southwest corner of block 151                                        location,
                                                                                      and students
                                                                                      of Tell City
                                                                                      High School
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      location
                                                                                      from 7:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 3:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents
                                                                                      whose homes
13th       East                                                                       affront the             1-20-
Street     and   ½ block south of Fulton Street toward Jefferson Street              designated   -    703   1992
           west                                                                       location,
                                                                                      and students
                                                                                      of Tell City
                                                                                      High School
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      location
                                                                                      from 7:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 3:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents on
13th                                                                                  the west                6-17-
Street     West  In the 1300 and 1400 block in the city                               side of 13th -    695   1991
                                                                                      Street in
                                                                                      those two
                                                                                      blocks, and
                                                                                      employees of
                                                                                      General
                                                                                      Electric
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      area
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents
                                                                                      whose homes
14th       East                                                                       affront the             1-20-
Street     and   ½ block south of Fulton Street toward Jefferson Street              designated   -    703   1992
           west                                                                       location,
                                                                                      and students
                                                                                      of Tell City
                                                                                      High School
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      location
                                                                                      from 7:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 3:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      limited to a
                                                                                      period of 30
17th                                                                                  minutes from            3-4-
Street     West  From Fulton Street to Jefferson Street                               7:00 a.m. to -    690   1991
                                                                                      5:00 p.m.
                                                                                      Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
20th       East  1400 Block of 20th Street                                            restricted        996   6-2-
Street                                                                                to 2 hour               2008
                                                                                      parking at
                                                                                      all times
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
20th       West  1400 Block of 20th Street                                            restricted        996   6-2-
Street                                                                                to 2 hour               2008
                                                                                      parking at
                                                                                      all times
31st             From the northerly side of the driveway serving Ivy Tech (which is   Parking is              12-14-
Street     East  Lot 2 of Block 506) to the terminus of the north end of 31st Street, prohibited        965   2006
                 at the southwest corner of Block O.o.                                at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Franklin                                                                              restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     North ½ block west of Main Street to ½ block east of Main Street         to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Franklin                                                                              restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     South Main Street to ½ block east of Main Street                          to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents
                                                                                      whose homes
                                                                                      affront the
Fulton           In the 1100 block: 12th Street to alley between 11th Street and 12th designated              10-6-
Street     Both  Street                                                               location,    -    899   03
                                                                                      and students
                                                                                      of Tell City
                                                                                      High School
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      location
                                                                                      from 7:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 3:00
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
                                                                                      Parking is
Fulton                                                                                prohibited   14-        1-21-
Street     North ½ block west of 13th Street                                         from 7:00    214  -     1980
                                                                                      a.m. to 4:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                      shall be
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to vehicles
                                                                                      parked there
                                                                                      only for
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking for
                                                                                      residents
                                                                                      whose homes
Fulton                                                                                affront the             1-20-
Street     South In the 1200 block and 1300 block                                     designated   -    703   1992
                                                                                      location,
                                                                                      and students
                                                                                      of Tell City
                                                                                      High School
                                                                                      shall not be
                                                                                      allowed to
                                                                                      park in this
                                                                                      location
                                                                                      from 7:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 3:00
                                                                                      p.m.
Guttenberg       From the northeast corner of Main and Guttenberg Streets to 40 feet  Parking is              8-2-
Street     North east of the corner                                                   prohibited   -    739   1993
                                                                                      at all times
Guttenberg       From the fire hydrant at the southeast corner of Main and Guttenberg Parking is              8-2-
Street     South Streets to 50 feet east of the corner                                prohibited   -    739   1993
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
Herrman                                                                               of two hours 14-        1-21-
Street     Both  From 12th Street to 13th Street                                      from 8:00    213  -     1980
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
Herrman                                                                               Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     North From 10th Street to 11th Street                                      prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Residential
                                                                                      parking only
Herrman    North Lots 23 and 24 in Block 71                                           for          -    1110  9-6-
Street                                                                                residents of            2016
                                                                                      said area at
                                                                                      all times
Herrman                                                                               Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     South From 10th Street to ½ block east                                    prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      prohibited
Humboldt                                                                              at all       14-        1-21-
Street     South ½ block west of Main Street                                         times,       214  -     1980
                                                                                      except by
                                                                                      the Fire
                                                                                      Chief
Humboldt                                                                              Parking is              9-5-
Street     South Between 6th Street and 7th Street                                    prohibited        1207A 2023
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
Jefferson                                                                             to a period  14-        1-21-
Street     North ¼ block west of 11th Street to 11th Street                          of 15        213  -     1980
                                                                                      minutes from
                                                                                      8:00 a.m. to
                                                                                      4:00 p.m.
                                                                                      Parking is
Main                                                                                  restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     Both  From Washington Street to ½ block south of Washington Street        to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of one hour
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main             In the 1000 block, except for in front of residences at 1018 Main    restricted              9-6-
Street     East  Street and 1022 Main Street                                          to a period  -    648   1988
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main             From ¼ block north of Humboldt Street to ½ block north of Humboldt restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     East  Street                                                               to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main                                                                                  restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     East  From Jefferson Street to ½ block south of Franklin Street           to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main                                                                                  restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     East  ¼ block north of Humboldt Street to Washington Street               to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of one hour
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main       East  From Fulton Street to Jefferson Street                               prohibited   14-  -     1-21-
Street                                                                                on school    214        1980
                                                                                      days
                                                                                      Parking is              8-2-
Main             In the 1000 block except in front of structures at 1018 Main Street, restricted        1036; 2010;
Street     East  1022 Main Street and 1044 Main Street                                to a period  -    1056  8-6-
                                                                                      of two hours            2012
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
Main             From the north side of the property located at 1021 Main Street      to a period             10-2-
Street     West  south to Tell Street                                                 of two hours -    666   1989
                                                                                      from 8:00
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Parking is
Main                                                                                  restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     West  Fulton Street to Washington Street                                   to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
Main             From the north side of the property located at 1021 Main Street      of two hours            2-18-
Street     West  south to Tell Street                                                 from 8:00    -    689   1991
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Saturday
Main                                                                                  Business     14-        4-1-
Street     West  Lot Number 21 in Block 44                                            parking only 213  880   2002
                                                                                      at all times A
Main       West  From Schiller Street to the north line of 1027 Main Street           No           -    1036  8-2-
Street                                                                                restrictions            2010
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
Main                                                                                  of two hours            8-2-
Street           1027 Main Street                                                     8:00 a.m. to -    1036  2010
                                                                                      5:00 p.m.
                                                                                      Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Saturday
Main                                                                                  No                      8-2-
Street           1021 Main Street and 1017 Main Street                                restrictions -    1036  2010
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Main                                                                                  restricted              8-2-
Street           From south of 1017 Main Street to Tell Street                        to a period  -    1036  2010
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Mozart                                                                                restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     North From ½ block west of Main Street to ½ block east of Main Street    to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Only
                                                                                      residential
                                                                                      parking is
                                                                                      permitted,
           North                                                                      which
Mozart     and   From 19th Street on the west to 22nd Street on the east              includes     -    797   8-4-
Street     South                                                                      vehicles                1997
                                                                                      with a gross
                                                                                      weight of
                                                                                      less than
                                                                                      10,000
                                                                                      pounds
                                                                                      Parking is
           North                                                                      prohibited
Mozart     and   From 22nd Street on the west to Highway 237 on the east              on all days  -    797   8-4-
Street     south                                                                      except only             1997
                                                                                      in case of
                                                                                      emergency
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                 In abutting lots 13 and 14 in Block 135 between the intersection of  to a period
Mozart     South 12th and Mozart Streets east on to the west boundary of the alley in of two hours -    744   1-4-
Street           Block 135                                                            from 6:00               1993
                                                                                      a.m. to 6:00
                                                                                      p.m. seven
                                                                                      days a week
                                                                                      Parking is
Mozart                                                                                restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     South From Main Street to ½ block east of Main Street                     to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
Mozart                                                                                Two hour                7-6-
Street     South Main Street to 80 feet east of Main Street                           parking at   -    1034  2010
                                                                                      all times
Mozart                                                                                Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     South ½ block west of 6th Street                                          prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      prohibited
Mozart                                                                                from 7:30               6-19-
Street     South In front of Tell City Junior High School                             a.m. to 3:30 -    766   1995
                                                                                      p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
                                                                                      of two hours
Municipal                                                                             from 8:00    14-        1-21-
parking          On 7th street between Franklin Street and Mozart Street              a.m. to 8:00 213  -     1980
lot                                                                                   p.m. Monday
                                                                                      through
                                                                                      Friday,
                                                                                      except
                                                                                      holidays
                                                                                      Residential
                                                                                      parking only
                                                                                      for
Orchard    West  Between ingress roadway and egress roadway                           residents of      1006  10-6-
Hill Drive                                                                            Twelve Oakes            2008
                                                                                      Apartments
                                                                                      only at all
                                                                                      times
Pestalozzi                                                                            Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     North ½ block west of 7th Street to ¼ block west of 7th Street           prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Pestalozzi North From the west side of the alley in the 800 block west to the east    restricted              10-2-
Street     and   side of the alley in the 700 block                                   to a period  -    666   1989
           south                                                                      of two hours
                                                                                      at all times
                 1500 feet south of Boundary Street to 2000 feet south of Boundary    Parking is   14-        1-21-
River Road West  Street                                                               prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
Tell                                                                                  Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     North From Main Street to 9th Street                                       prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to a period
Tell       North ¼ block west of 13th Street to 13th Street                          of one hour  14-  -     1-21-
Street                                                                                from 7:00    213        1980
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m., except
                                                                                      Sunday
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      restricted
           North                                                                      to a period
Tell       and   Between 8th Street and 12th Street                                   of two hours -    774   11-20-
Street     south                                                                      from 8:00               1995
                                                                                      a.m. to 5:00
                                                                                      p.m. seven
                                                                                      days a week
                                                                                      Parking is
                                                                                      prohibited
Tell                                                                                  at all       14-        1-21-
Street     South From 12th Street to 13th Street                                      times,       214  -     1980
                                                                                      except by
                                                                                      training
                                                                                      cars
Tell                                                                                  Parking is              10-2-
Street     South All of the driveway cut on the curb                                  prohibited   -    666   1989
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Tell                                                                                  restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     South From 12th Street to ½ block west of 12th Street                     to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of one hour
                                                                                      at all times
Tell             Beginning at the alley between 16th and 17th Streets and thence 40   Two hour                7-6-
Street     South feet west of the alley                                               parking at   -    1033  2010
                                                                                      all times
                                                                                      No parking
                                                                                      school days
Tell       South 1300 block of Tell Street and 1400 block of Tell Street              only from 8: -    1038  9-7-
Street                                                                                00 a.m.                 2010
                                                                                      until 3:00
                                                                                      p.m.
Washington                                                                            Parking is   14-        1-21-
Street     South From 12th Street to 11th Street                                      prohibited   214  -     1980
                                                                                      at all times
                                                                                      Parking is
Washington                                                                            restricted   14-        1-21-
Street     South From 7th Street to 1 block east of 7th Street                        to a period  213  -     1980
                                                                                      of one hour
                                                                                      at all times
 
(Am. Ord. 690, passed 3-4-1991; Am. Ord. 689, passed 2-18-1991; Am. Ord. 997,
passed 6-2-2008; Am. Ord. 1020, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 1033, passed 7-6-
2010; Am. Ord. 1034, passed 7-6-2010; Am. Ord. 1036, passed 8-2-2010; Am. Ord.
1038, passed 9-7-2010; Am. Ord. 1070, passed 7-1-2013; Am. Ord. 1079, passed
10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine upon what streets
angle parking shall be permitted an mark or sign the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway in the city.
   (B)   The following streets are designated to permit angle parking.
Street Side(s) Location `81 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street    Side  Location                                                      `81  Ord. Date
          (s)                                                                 Code No.  Passed
10th      East  1/8 block north of Schiller Street to ¼ block south of Payne 14-  -    1-21-
Street          Street                                                        166       1980
Gutenberg       From 40 feet east of the northeast corner of Main and                   8-2-
Street    North Gutenberg Streets east to 9th Street                          -    739  1993
(block)
Lafayette South Main Street to ¼ block west                                  14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
Main      East  From Blum Street to ½ block north                            14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
Rubens    North From Main Street to ½ block west                             14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
Rubens    South 12th Street to ¼ block west                                  14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
Tell      Both  From 6th Street to ½ block west                              14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
Tell      Both  From Main Street to ½ block west                             14-  -    1-21-
Street                                                                        166       1980
 
SCHEDULE III. LARGE VEHICLE RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   Except as provided in §
73.06, It shall be unlawful for a large vehicle to be parked on the following
streets or parts of streets.
 
Street            Side(s) Location                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street               Between Washington Street and    808      4-6-1998
                          State Highway 37
Mozart Street             Between 19th Street and Highway  808      4-6-1998
                          237
                          Abutting lots 13 and 14 in Block
                          135 between the intersection of
Mozart Street     South   12th and Mozart Street east to   744      1-4-1993
                          the west boundary of the alley
                          in block 135
Washington Street         Between Main Street and State    808      4-6-1998
                          Highway 66
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine the location
of loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours and days during which the provisions are applicable.
Loading zones are established at the following locations.
 
Street Side(s) Location                                           When
                                                                  Applicable
                                                                  From 7:00
                                                                  a.m. to 4:
9th    West    From Fulton Street to ½ block south of Fulton     00 p.m.
Street         Street                                             Monday
                                                                  through
                                                                  Friday
                                                                  From 7:00
                                                                  a.m. to 4:
10th   West    From Franklin Street to ½ block south of Franklin 00 p.m.
Street         Street                                             Monday
                                                                  through
                                                                  Friday
               On the river side of the floodwall on the paved
               portion of the boat ramp, beginning at Washington  All times
               Street and leading to the Ohio River
 
(`81 Code, § 14-195) (Ord. passed 1-21-1980)
SCHEDULE V. BUS STOPS.
   The following locations are designated as bus stops during the hours and
days specified:
 
Street      Side(s) Location                                         When
                                                                     Applicable
Fulton      South   From Main Street to 1 block east of Main Street  All times
Street
13th Street East    From Herrman Street to ¼ block south of Herrman All times
                    Street
 
(`81 Code, § 14-195) (Ord. passed 1-21-1980)
CHAPTER 76: OFF ROAD VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Policy
   
76.03   Further requirements
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREET. Any roadway maintained by the City of Tell City, to include
streets, alleys, and some unimproved rights-of-way within the corporate limits
of the City of Tell City. This does not include any U.S. highway or state
highway that may simultaneously have a local street name.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. An off road vehicle owner's or a golf cart owner's
ability to pay for damages or injuries that result from a crash.
   GOLF CART. Shall have the same meaning herein as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
69.7, or as it may be amended or replaced.
   OFF ROAD VEHICLE. Shall be defined and shall have the same meaning herein as
set forth in I.C. 14-8-2-185, or as it may be amended or replaced.
   OPERATOR. A person in physical control of a golf cart or off road vehicle.
   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGN. A triangular emblem symbolizing a vehicle that
operates at speeds less than 25 miles per hour and approved by the U.S.
Department of Transportation and meeting all standards set forth by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
(Ord. 1168, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 76.02 POLICY.
   (A)   Allowable operation.
      (1)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may be operated on city streets,
so long as said vehicles have non-straddle seats, and are equipped with safety
belts for operators and passengers.
      (2)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may be operated only during
daylight hours commonly referred to as sunrise to sunset as determined by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, unless said vehicles are
equipped with properly functioning headlights, taillights and are otherwise
authorized under the Indiana Code for operation upon public highways.
      (3)   A person operating an off road vehicle or a golf cart upon a city
street has all the rights and duties concerning traffic regulations that are
applicable to a person who drives a vehicle, in addition to the conditions set
forth in this chapter.
      (4)   Off road vehicles and golf carts operated on city streets must be
equipped with a muffler in good working condition.
   (B)   Prohibited operation.
      (1)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks
or other public walkways.
      (2)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may not carry more passengers than
said vehicles are designed to carry and must be equipped with seat belts for
operators and passengers.
      (3)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may not be operated without a
slow-moving vehicle emblem affixed to the rear portion of the off road vehicle
or golf cart.
      (4)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may not be operated by a person
that does not possess a valid Indiana driver’s license or a driver’s license
recognized by the State of Indiana for the legal operation of vehicles.
      (5)   Off road vehicles and golf carts may not be operated by a person
that cannot provide proof of financial responsibility, such as proof of
insurance.
      (6)   Off road vehicles or golf carts with saddle style seats that must
be straddled by the operator shall not be operated on city streets.
(Ord. 1168, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 76.03 FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Registration.
   (A)   Any person who wishes to operate a golf cart or off road vehicle in
the city must register the same with the Tell City Police Department and pay a
registration fee of $60 for a three year period.
   (B)   The Tell City Police Department shall inspect the golf cart or off
road vehicle to verify that said vehicle complies with this chapter.
   (C)   Upon registering a golf cart or off road vehicle with the Tell City
Police Department, any person who wishes to operate a golf cart or off road
vehicle in the city must have attached to said golf cart or off road vehicle a
sticker provided by the city noting said vehicle has been properly registered
with the city.
   (D)   A copy of the city registration form must be kept in the vehicle when
operated on public streets.
   (E)   The required registration sticker, along with an approved traffic
safety slow moving vehicle sign, must be visibly mounted to the rear of the
vehicle.
   (F)   Any person who wishes to operate a golf cart or off road vehicle in
the city must have said vehicle inspected every three years and pay a renewal
fee of $60 at the time of inspection.
(Ord. 1168, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
in the amount of $50 for a first violation, and $100 for a second violation,
with said second violation also being subject to possible suspension or
revocation of the vehicle registration. Each further violation shall result is
an escalating penalty, adding $50 to the prior penalty assessed.
   (B)   If a person is cited for a violation of this chapter more than three
times in a one year period, the registration of the golf cart or off road
vehicle shall be revoked and said person shall not be allowed to register any
such vehicle at any time thereafter.
   (C)   If a person is prohibited from registering a golf cart or off road
vehicle as set forth in division (B) above, said person may petition the Tell
City Board of Public Works and Safety for an exemption allowing said person to
seek a registration, and the approval or denial of said exemption shall be at
the sole discretion of the Board of Public Works and Safety based upon the
evidence presented to the Board.
   (D)   If an off road vehicle or golf cart is operated by a person that does
not have an Indiana driver’s license, or a driver’s license recognized by the
State of Indiana for the legal operation of vehicles, in addition to any other
penalty provisions set forth herein said vehicle shall be impounded and the
owner or person entitled to possession of said off road vehicle or golf cart
shall pay a fee of $250 to secure the release of said off road vehicle or golf
cart.
(Ord. 1168, passed 11-2-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Responsibility of owner
   
90.03   Notice of abandonment
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicle report; storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
   
90.05   Abandoned vehicle account
   
90.06   Exempt vehicles
   
90.07   Towing and storage charges; specific provisions for sale
   
90.08   Towing fees
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle located on public property illegally or a
vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved for three
days; a vehicle located on public property in a manner so as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way; a vehicle that has remained on private property without
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours; a vehicle from which there has been removed the engine, transmission or
differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property; a vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a
public agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance,
other than this chapter, if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or
redeemed by the owner or its agent within 15 days of its removal; or a vehicle
that is six or more model years old and mechanically inoperable, and is left on
private property continuously visible from public property for more than 30
days.
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder of a vehicle according to the
records of the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-1-2.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.03 NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A police officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid, the owner's registration
privileges will be suspended on that vehicle; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned vehicle or
parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately contact the company with
which the city has contracted in order for the company to dispose of the
vehicle to its automobile scrap yard pursuant to the terms of that contract. A
copy of the abandoned vehicle report and the photographs relating to the
abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau. The City Police Department
shall retain the original records and photographs for a least two years. If, in
the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned vehicle or parts
is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or
parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or person who may
be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours from the attachment of
the notice, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage area pursuant to the contract the city has entered with the company for
the provision of the towing and storing services of the abandoned vehicles.
   (C)   The following descriptive characteristics shall presumptively qualify
vehicles to be worth $100 or less and subject to disposition in accordance with
division (B) above:
      (1)   Vehicles ten model years or older that have extensive deterioration
to the interior or exterior of the vehicle, or are otherwise inoperable because
of faulty or missing major parts; and/or
      (2)   Vehicles six model years or older which have been extensively
destroyed by fire, explosion, vandalism or other causes, excluding traffic
accidents, and are inoperable.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT; STORAGE AND DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED
VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after the removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area, as set out in §
90.03, the Police Department shall prepare and forward to the Bureau an
abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle including the
make, model, engine number, if any, identification number and the number of the
license plate, and request the Bureau to advise the Police Department of the
name and most recent mailing address of the owner and/or any lienholder.
   (B)   The Bureau shall:
      (1)   Conduct a reasonable search through the National Automobile Theft
Bureau and the Indiana State Police Department to determine whether the vehicle
or parts have been reported as stolen;
      (2)   Conduct a reasonable search of Bureau records to determine the
owner of the vehicle or the parts or the lienholder of record;
      (3)   If a reasonable search discloses the name and address of the owner
or lienholder, mail a written notice, by first class mail, to the owner with a
copy to any lienholder that has entered into a contract with a company for
disposal of the vehicle indicating that the vehicle or parts have been
impounded at a certain location and must be removed within 15 days of the date
of the mailing of the notice advising that the vehicle or parts will be
disposed of after that time;
      (4)   The Police Department shall further advise the owner or any
lienholder that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or parts
are his or her legal responsibility.
   (C)   If the vehicle or parts are in a condition so that the vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the owner or lienholder, the vehicle shall be disposed of as set out
in §
93.03 above for vehicles valued under $100. If the owner or lienholder does not
appear within 15 days after the mailing of the notice, the Police Department
shall immediately arrange for an auction to be conducted on the motor vehicle
with the appropriate auction company with which the city has contracted. The
sale shall be conducted only after notice under I.C. 5-3-1, except only one
newspaper publication at least one week before the public sale is required.
   (D)   The purchaser shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned
vehicle sold through the procedures set out in division (C) above. The fee for
the bill of sale is $6. Should the purchaser wish to obtain a title for the
vehicle acquired, he or she shall present evidence from a law enforcement
agency that the vehicle is roadworthy and pay the appropriate title fee.
   (E)   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property from which
an abandoned vehicle or parts are removed, nor the Police Department, the city
and towing service or automobile scrap yard is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition. The
proceeds from any sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts shall be credited
against all costs incident to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicles
incurred in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.05 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established an Abandoned Vehicle Account, and all net
proceeds, if any, remaining from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts that
are sold through the provisions of this chapter in any manner, including
charges for the bills of sale, and all monies received from owners or
lienholders for the cost of removal or storage of all vehicles shall be
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer. Any costs incurred by the city in
administering this chapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
The Common Council shall annually appropriate sufficient monies for that
account for the purposes of financing this chapter. All the monies remaining in
the account at the end of each year remain in the account and do not revert to
the General Fund.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.06 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This chapter does not apply to a vehicle in operable condition specifically
adapted or constructed for operation on privately owned raceways, a vehicle
stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of the United States who
is on active duty assignment, a vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a
commercial vehicle servicing facility, a vehicle located upon property licensed
or zoned as an automobile scrap yard, or a vehicle licensed and registered
under State law as an antique vehicle.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.07 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES; SPECIFIC PROVISIONS FOR SALE.
    The amount which shall be paid for normal towing service for any type of
vehicle shall be $25.00 The storage charges shall not exceed the rate of $2.50
per day, which may be accumulated for a period of up to 34 days for a maximum
storage charge of $85.00. The claims for towing service shall have first
priority for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the sale of the vehicles. All
sales of abandoned vehicles shall be for cash, certified check or money order.
The city shall have the right to withdraw from an abandoned vehicle sale at any
abandoned vehicle auction, pursuant to terms of this chapter, any vehicle which
the city's representative may reasonably believe is not bringing its fair
market value. The withdrawal can be made at any time prior to the fall of the
hammer completing the sale of the auction.
(Ord. 676, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 90.08 TOWING FEES.
   The Police Department shall assess a $35 towing fee for each vehicle the
Police Department orders towed as a result of criminal and/or traffic
infraction violations. The Police Department shall collect the towing fee prior
to releasing any towed vehicle to its owners and shall forward these towing
fees to the Clerk Treasurer of the city on at least a monthly basis.
(Ord. 1003, passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animals at large
   
91.03   Animals in heat
   
91.04   Vicious and nuisance animals
   
91.05   Abandonment of animals
   
91.06   Kennels prohibited
   
91.07   Animal feces
   
91.08   Collar and tag required for all animals
   
91.09   Prohibition of slaughter houses and keeping of certain animals
 
   
91.99   Violations - penalties
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this ordinance shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as listed unless the context otherwise
indicates.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner of any
animal with the intention of terminating ownership but without vesting it in
any other person.
   ANIMAL. All members of the canine, feline, rodent families, and reptiles.
Also any animal domestic, domesticated, or wild, the keeping or harboring of
which might violate any section hereof. Provided, however, that nothing in this
chapter shall apply to fish.
   AT LARGE. Any animal found off the owner's premises, and with regard to dogs
is not restrained by a leash or chain or is not under the owner's immediate
control. The definition of AT LARGE does not apply to dogs located within Tell
City's dog park known as “Central Bark.”
   DISEASED ANIMALS. An animal with a contagious or infectious disease.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portions thereof on which dogs, cats, or other
household domestic animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for, in
return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale. The definition of
KENNEL shall not apply to any premises being used by a doctor of veterinary
medicine licensed by the State of Indiana to practice veterinary medicine, in
conjunction with any business operation of said doctor of veterinary medicine
conducted on the premises of said doctor of veterinary medicine practice.
   NUISANCE. As used in this chapter shall mean a condition which arises by an
animal emitting noises consistently so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or which consistently or at intervals, chases bicycles,
automobiles or pedestrians on the streets and sidewalks of the city, or any
other condition created by an animal which would destroy or deface shrubbery,
gardens, lawns, or flowers, or which might result in the general discomfort of
citizens in the city where such animal is harbored.
   OWNER. Any person or entity having a right of property in an animal, or who
keeps or harbors an animal, or who has in it, his, or her care or acts as its
custodian, or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him, or her or it.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that without one provocation has been known to
have scratched or bitten a human being, or who promiscuously attacks other
animals.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity being the owner of or having
immediate custody of any animal to suffer or permit such animal to run at large
within the city limits of Tell City, Indiana.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.03 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   All owners shall confine within a building or secure enclosure any animal
when in heat or rutting; and it shall be unlawful for any owner to remove such
animal from such building or enclosure at any time so as to permit contact with
another animal except for controlled breeding purposes.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.04 VICIOUS AND NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to harbor ar keep within the
City of Tell City any animal covered by this chapter that is vicious or that
creates a nuisance.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.05 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to abandon the same within
the corporate limits of the City of Tell City.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.06 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep, maintain or operate, a kennel as
herein defined anywhere within the corporate limits of the City of Tell City.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.07 ANIMAL FECES.
   Any person or entity owning, keeping, possessing or harboring any animal
shall promptly remove and dispose of, in a sanitary manner, all feces left by
the animal on any public property, public right-of-way, or private property not
under the control of the animal's owner.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.08 COLLAR AND TAG REQUIRED FOR ALL ANIMALS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner(s) of all animals governed by
this chapter to affix to such animal a collar and a tag which sets forth the
telephone number of the owner, which collar and tag shall remain on the animal
at all times.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 91.09 PROHIBITION OF SLAUGHTER HOUSES AND KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, persons or corporation to maintain or
operate any slaughter house within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, persons or corporation to maintain or
keep any hogs, sheep or cattle in closed pens or structures within the
corporate limits of the city for the purpose of feeding the same until required
for slaughtering in his, her, their or its slaughter house; thereby causing
noxious exhalations or noisome or offensive smells, injurious to the public
health or comfort of the inhabitants of the city.
(`81 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 53, passed 7-22-1902) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.99 VIOLATIONS - PENALTIES.
   Any person or entity violating or failing to comply with any provision of
this ordinance shall be guilty of a violation of the ordinance and will be
subject to the following penalties: $50 for the first offense; $100 for the
second offense; and $200 for the third and each subsequent offense, all
together with attorney's fees and other costs incurred in the enforcement of
the ordinance.
(Ord. 1121, passed 4-3-2017)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Greenwood Cemetery Committee
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Purchase of lots
   
92.04   Burial permits and opening of graves
   
92.05   Rules and regulations for use of Greenwood Cemetery
   
92.06   Reclaiming of abandoned lots
   
92.07   Cemetery Perpetuity Fund
   
92.08   Community mausoleums and crypts; fees for interment
   
92.09   Rules and regulations for community mausoleums
   
92.10   Embalming before interment
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 GREENWOOD CEMETERY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a committee of three from the membership of
the Common Council, to be known as the Greenwood Cemetery Committee. It shall
be the duty of the Cemetery Committee, by and with the advice and assistance of
the Common Council, to exercise control of and care for Greenwood Cemetery and
perform other duties in connection therewith, all as hereinafter provided. The
members of the Committee shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (B)   The Cemetery Committee shall, from time to time, make and cause to be
made about the Cemetery any improvements and repairs as it may deem to be
necessary and proper. Provided, however, that before the improvements or
repairs costing in excess of $25 are contracted for, the same shall be reported
to the Common Council for its approval. On or before the September 1 of each
year, the Cemetery Committee shall make and file with the Clerk-Treasurer an
estimate of all expenditures for cemetery purposes that may be needed for the
succeeding fiscal year, and no expenditures shall be made or allowed unless
there has been made an appropriation therefor by the Common Council.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Cemetery Committee to report to the Common
Council at least quarterly as to the condition of Greenwood Cemetery, setting
forth in each report the nature and kind of improvement and the cost thereof
that was made since the filing of the last previous report.
   (D)   The Cemetery Committee shall have authority to make all reasonable
rules and regulations as to the management and control of Greenwood Cemetery
and the care and decoration of graves by friends and relatives of the dead as
they may deem proper, and not inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 113, passed 4-27-1909)
   (E)   There is created the office of Sexton, and the Cemetery Committee,
with the approval of the Common Council, shall appoint some suitable person to
be Sexton of Greenwood Cemetery, who shall serve as the same during the
pleasure of the Common Council and until his or her successor shall be
appointed and qualified, and who shall receive an annual salary to be
determined by the Council, which salary shall be in lieu of all services
performed by the Sexton, and all fees for special and extra work shall be paid
into the City Treasury and shall belong to the city. Before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, the Sexton shall take and subscribe an oath that
he or she will support the constitution of the United States and of the state,
and that he or she will faithfully perform all the duties of his or her office.
It shall be the duty of the Sexton to devote his or her entire time to the
duties of his or her office, and he or she shall at all times be under the
supervision and subject to the order of the Cemetery Committee. He or she shall
perform any services about the cemetery as the Cemetery Committee may direct.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-10-1917)
   (F)   The Sexton shall, on reasonable notice and at all times during the
months of November, December, January, February, March and April, between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., and during the months of May, June, July,
August, September and October, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.,
unlock and open the gates of the cemetery for the ingress and egress of funeral
processions, persons wishing to erect monuments or tombstones, and to visitors.
At all other times the gates to the cemetery shall be securely locked, except
in case of emergency, in which event the Sexton may unlock and admit persons to
the cemetery at any hour. No person shall interfere with or interrupt the
Sexton in the discharge of his or her duties, or remain in the cemetery after
the hour of closing, except in case of emergency and by permission of the
Sexton.
(Ord. 113, passed 4-27-1909)
   (G)   The Sexton shall not dig any grave in the cemetery until a certificate
is produced from the Clerk-Treasurer stating the name, age and sex of the
deceased, and the amount paid for the certificate. Upon receipt of the
certificate, the person applying therefor shall pay the Clerk-Treasurer the sum
of $5 for the certificate for a person under the age of eight years, and $10
for a person over the age of eight years. However, owners of lots shall be
entitled to a reduction of $1 on each certificate, and that the Cemetery
Committee may authorize the issuance of a certificate without charge, to
persons who are too poor to pay for the same. For the use of the vault a charge
of $3 shall be made for any period of time not exceeding ten days. The Sexton
shall not disinter, nor shall any person disinter, any dead body in the
cemetery, except that a permit therefor be first obtained from the Clerk-
Treasurer. The cost of the permit shall be $8 for a person under the age of
eight years, and $10 for a person over the age of eight years.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-13-1923)
   (H)   The Cemetery Committee shall, from time to time, cause certain
portions of Greenwood Cemetery to be laid out in lots 16 feet square, fronting
on streets six feet wide and separated by alleys two feet wide, in conformity
to plat heretofore made and recorded. The Cemetery Committee shall, from time
to time, establish a selling price for each lot so laid out, and any person so
desiring to purchase any of these lots shall pay the Clerk-Treasurer the price
therefor so fixed by the Cemetery Committee. Upon the payment of the price, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the person a certificate of purchase, and the
certificate shall contain the provision that the lot is sold for burial purpose
and upon condition that the owner of the lot will comply with the rules and
regulations of the Cemetery Committee and the ordinances of the city in
relation to Greenwood Cemetery. No lot shall be sold except that it be upon the
conditions aforesaid.
   (I)   All moneys and revenues for cemetery purposes shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer, and all payments out of the Cemetery Fund shall be made only
upon order or warrant duly issued therefor in accordance with the laws of the
state.
   (J)   The Sexton of Greenwood Cemetery shall be clothed with police powers
of an ordinary police officer, and it is hereby made his or her duty to arrest
any person who may be found in Greenwood Cemetery violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or the law of the land, and forthwith bring the
person before the Mayor for trial.
   (K)   It shall be deemed a violation of this chapter for any person to
violate any of the rules and regulations for Greenwood Cemetery established by
the Cemetery Committee.
(`81 Code, § 8-1) (Am. Ord. 1044, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply throughout this chapter:
   COMMUNITY MAUSOLEUMS. Those mausoleums constructed by the city by its own
personnel or through contact with other entities and does not include a private
mausoleum.
   PRIVATE MAUSOLEUM. A mausoleum constructed by a family for the interment of
a family member within that mausoleum and does not include the community
mausoleum constructed by the city.
   SUBDIVISION NUMBER THREE. That section of the cemetery for people to be
buried who do not have the financial means in order to arrange for their own
burial.
(Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 92.03 PURCHASE OF LOTS.
   The fees for burial lots in Greenwood Cemetery are as follows:
   (A)   The purchase price for a one-grave lot is $500, effective January 1,
2024.
   (B)   The purchase price for a one-grave lot purchased by persons who do not
own real estate within the city at the time of the purchase and/or those
persons who do not permanently reside within the corporate limits of the city
at the time of purchase is the sum of $600, effective January 1, 2024.
   (C)   The purchase price for a one-grave lot purchased in the infant
section, which is for a child two years of age or younger, is the sum of $175,
effective January 1, 2024.
   (D)   The purchase price for a one-grave lot purchased in the infant
section, which is for a child two years of age or younger, by persons who do
not own real estate within the city at the time of the purchase and/or those
persons who do not permanently reside within the corporate limits of the city
at the time of purchase is the sum of $200, effective January 1, 2024.
   (E)   The purchase price for a two-grave lot for a mausoleum is the sum of
$1,050, effective January 1, 2024.
   (F)   The purchase price for a two-grave lot for a mausoleum by persons who
do not own real estate within the city at the time of the purchase and/or those
persons who do not permanently reside within the corporate limits of the city
at the time of purchase is the sum of $1,250, effective January 1, 2024.
(Ord. 855, passed 11-6-2000; Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002; Am. Ord. 1025,
passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 1087, passed 4-6-2015; Am. Ord. 1095, passed 12-7-
2015; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 4-4-2016; Am. Ord. 1170, passed 11-2-2020; Am. Ord.
1210, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 92.04 BURIAL PERMITS AND OPENING OF GRAVES.
   (A)   The fees for burial permits and the opening and closings of graves,
mausoleums and columbaria shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a burial permit and opening of a grave lot for an infant, there
is a charge of $100.
      (2)   The burial permit and opening of a grave lot purchased for a person
over two years of age is the sum of $500.
      (3)   The burial permit and opening and closing of a private community
mausoleum or columbarium, or the disinterment thereof, is the sum of $150.
      (4)   The burial permit and opening of a grave of a lot purchased for the
interment of cremated remains is the sum of $200.
      (5)   The burial permit and opening of a grave of a lot purchased for a
person therein to be disinterred is the sum of $750.
      (6)   There shall be an additional fee of $300 for weekend or city-
recognized holiday services.
      (7)   Tent services shall be an additional $150.
      (8)   All burials and all cremations in Greenwood Cemetery shall require
the services of the Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   For one grave lot there shall be no more than two burials or one
traditional burial and one interment of cremated remains or there shall be no
more than two interments of cremated remains per one grave lot.
   (C)   There shall be no opening and closing of any private mausoleums by
persons other than by the city personnel as it is the complete responsibility
of the owner of the private mausoleums to pay for this obligation.
(Ord. 855, passed 11-6-2000; Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002; Am. Ord. 890,
passed 2-3-2003; Am. Ord. 930, passed 3-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1002, passed 9-2-2008;
Am. Ord. 1076, passed 6-2-2014; Am. Ord. 1150, passed 12-27-2018; Am. Ord.
1152, passed 7-1-2019; Am. Ord. 1210, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 92.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE OF GREENWOOD CEMETERY.
   Other rules and regulations for the Greenwood Cemetery are as follows:
   (A)   The transfer of any lots, parts of lots or plots to a third person
shall be reported to the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer for record keeping
before the purchaser shall be allowed to purchase the same.
   (B)    Anyone desiring to allow the interment of bodies into a lot for other
than members of their own immediate family of the owners of the lot shall give
written permission of the same, signed by the lot owner and presented to the
Cemetery Sexton.
   (C)   Any person desiring to purchase lots shall contact the Cemetery
Sexton, who shall give all information regarding prices and show plats and
locations available for purchase.
   (D)   No fence of any kind shall be erected in Greenwood Cemetery for the
purpose of enclosing any lot or grave.
   (E)   A landmark shall be placed at the head of each lot and shall have the
lot number legibly inscribed on the top thereof, set flush with the surrounding
ground, and shall be installed by the Cemetery Sexton or by cemetery personnel
only. Stone or concrete coping that surround lots or graves are prohibited.
Foundations for monuments must be at least two feet deep and should not be
exposed above the ground on each side. After a grade has been established, the
same shall not be altered and no lot shall be raised above the established
grave. No foot stones or foot markers are permitted at any grave, and all
monuments shall be placed at the head of the lot and in line with the landmark
as set forth in this section. No grave slab shall be allowed on any lot except
on those lots on which they exist at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
   (F)   The planting of trees, shrubs and flowers on cemetery lots is
prohibited.
   (G)   The placing of any articles on the graves is prohibited, with the
exception of the following:
      (1)   Flowers in vase containers securely attached to gravestones.
      (2)   Flowers attached to gravestone saddles.
      (3)   Solar lightings securely attached to gravestones.
      (4)   Figurines or similar articles, all of which must be securely
attached to the gravestone, or placed on the gravestone in such a manner that
they will not subject to being accidently moved from the gravestone.
      (5)   Provided, however, that no item may be attached to a gravestone
which hinders mowing or other maintenance activities in the cemetery, which
creates a safety hazard in the cemetery, or which is in poor taste.
      (6)   Items placed in violation of the restrictions in divisions (1)
through (5) may be removed without notice.
      (7)   The restrictions in divisions (1) through (5) shall not apply to
flags placed by service or veterans’ organizations for Memorial Day
recognition, and also shall not apply to the first 72 hours after burial.
      (8)   The city shall not be responsible for loss or damage to any items
attached to a gravestone.
   (H)   No one shall be allowed to break or remove any twig, plant, tree or
flower in Greenwood Cemetery without the express written consent of the
Cemetery Sexton. Anyone engaged in erecting monuments or other permanent
structures on the grave site shall not place guy ropes, stay wires or support
wires on to any tree, shrub or monument. Stone cutting shall not be permitted
in the cemetery without first having obtained written permission from the
Cemetery Sexton, and then only at places designated by the Cemetery Sexton.
   (I)   Any material or implements used for performing any work within
cemetery and the earth or stones which may be left on the lot or any ground
adjacent to any lot shall be removed without delay. If there is not compliance
with this section, the same shall be removed by the Cemetery Sexton at the
expense of the owner of the lots in question or the contractor, or whoever is
responsible for failing to remove the same.
   (J)   Heavy hauling shall not be permitted in the Cemetery, except when
permitted from the Cemetery Sexton. No person other than the Cemetery Sexton or
designated representative shall dig any grave, excavate any earth, cut any sod,
alter the grade of any lot or remove any earth therefrom or sod any grade or
lot without first obtaining prior written consent from the Cemetery Sexton.
   (K)   Visitors are requested to stay on the walks and to refrain from
walking over lots or standing or trampling on any graves. Receptacles are
placed at convenient locations in the cemetery for trash, and all persons are
requested to deposit trash in the receptacles. The depositing of trash anywhere
in the cemetery is prohibited except in the above receptacles. The Sexton has
the authority to remove dead and wilted flowers from graves no earlier than 72
hours after interment.
   (L)   All bodies to be interred, except for infants under the age of two
years, shall be interred in either concrete or metal containers or any other
containers such as fiberglass or plastic. The containers shall be made with
sufficient strength to guarantee as long or a longer life than concrete or
metal.
   (M)   Private mausoleums in Greenwood Cemetery have the following rules:
      (1)   Certain lots in Greenwood Cemetery have been established as sites
for private mausoleums only, but shall be erected only above ground and are
sold on a two-grave basis only. Private mausoleums shall not be erected upon
any other cemetery property except in specifically designated areas.
      (2)   No private mausoleum shall be erected until a written design, with
complete plans and specifications, are submitted to the Cemetery Committee and
approval is granted by the Committee. The structure shall be composed of
granite and metal, and all metal work shall be of a noncorrosive material.
      (3)   Walls of all private mausoleums shall measure at least four inches
in thickness, and the roof shall be at least six inches in thickness. The floor
shall be concrete reinforced with steel and tied into all sidewalls, creating a
solid one-piece unit with no joints. A complete system of ventilation shall be
provided.
      (4)   The position of the private mausoleum on the lot shall be
determined by the Cemetery Committee upon its approval of the plans and
specifications. Each lot size has been established as 12 feet in width and 12
feet in length. A person shall be allowed to only purchase the minimum number
of lots necessary to accommodate the desired private mausoleums.
      (5)   All private mausoleums constructed within the cemetery shall be
built so that all parts thereof may be readily examined by the State Board of
Health or any other appropriate authorized health officer. The Cemetery
Committee reserves the right to prohibit the erection and construction of any
private mausoleum that in the committee's opinion is not suitable or desirable
for the Greenwood Cemetery.
   (N)   All owners of private mausoleums that are erected and constructed in
Greenwood Cemetery shall be solely responsible for the care and maintenance of
the private mausoleums.
   (O)   Animals shall not be allowed within the cemetery area at any time.
There is no exception to this prohibition for animals on leashes.
   (P)   The cemetery committee has the final approval and authority to enforce
these rules, however, they may designate enforcement powers thereof to the
Cemetery Sexton.
(Ord. 855, passed 11-6-2000; Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002; Am. Ord. 919,
passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 RECLAIMING ABANDONED LOTS.
   (A)   All lots in Greenwood Cemetery that have not been entered for burial
purposes or that have not been cared for or attended to within the last 20
years by the person to whom the same was assigned or set apart or by his or her
agent or by anyone in his or her interest or behalf, shall be deemed abandoned
by the person, and shall be reclaimed by and revert to Greenwood Cemetery in
the manner following and as provided in the next section.
   (B)   When it shall be made to appear to the Cemetery Committee by affidavit
of the Sexton of the Cemetery that any lot therein that has been assigned to
any person more than 20 years ago and has not been used or cared for within
this time by anyone, it shall be the duty of the Committee to report the same
to the Common Council together with the affidavit, and the Council may make an
order declaring the lot or lots abandoned, from which time the same shall
revert to the Cemetery.
(`81 Code, § 8-2) (Ord. 35, passed 5-26-1896)
§ 92.07 CEMETERY PERPETUITY FUND.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and is authorized to accept gifts,
donations, bequests of money or property, real or personal, to be used in
providing special care of individual lots in Greenwood Cemetery in perpetuity,
in addition to the general care now provided by the city, and any gifts,
donations, bequests or devises as may be accepted or received by the city by
virtue of this section, or any income or interest derived therefrom shall be
used by the city in the manner as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to keep any sums so
received in a separate Fund to be known as the Cemetery Perpetuity Fund, and
shall keep the Fund and any accretions thereto on deposit in an authorized
depository or depositories of the city until a time as the Fund shall become
sufficient to justify investing the same as hereinafter provided.
   (C)    The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall invest all such funds in the
permanent maintenance fund for the care of individual lots of Greenwood
Cemetery in compliance with Indiana law and Indiana statutes as such are
amended from time to time. The existing investments of such funds should be
continued until such time as those investments mature, and thereafter the
Clerk-Treasurer shall invest in compliance with Indiana state laws regarding
such investments.
   (D)   The city hereby pledges itself, and agrees to use the income from any
gifts, donations, bequests or devises, if sufficient, to care for the graves on
the lots of the donors or as by the donors specified, and the grass, flowers
and shrubs thereon, and to provide for the cleaning, maintenance and repair of
the monuments, markers and mausoleums thereon situated, thereby pledging the
city to provide special care of individual lots in Greenwood Cemetery in
perpetuity, in addition to the general care now provided by the city. If the
income is insufficient to provide all care necessary, then the city shall
expend any income in providing care as may be most needed or imperative, and in
the event the income from any gift, donation, bequest or devise is more than
sufficient to provide all care that may be needed for the individual lot for
which the donation is given, then the city will, and reserves the right to,
transfer the surplus into the City General Fund for the maintenance, care and
upkeep of Greenwood Cemetery.
(`81 Code, §8-3) (Ord. 219, passed 1-27-1931; Am. Ord. 1022, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 92.08 COMMUNITY MAUSOLEUMS AND CRYPTS; FEES FOR INTERMENT.
   (A)   The fees for interment of bodies in crypts in any community mausoleums
constructed by or at the request of the city, or in columbariums in any
community columbarium constructed by or at the request of the city, are as
follows:
      (1)   Level A      $3,400 per crypt.
      (2)   Level B      $3,600 per crypt.
      (3)   Level C      $3,500 per crypt.
      (4)   Level D      $3,400 per crypt.
   (B)   Levels of the community mausoleums go from bottom to top as Level A,
B, C and D, respectively.
   (C)   The price per niche in a columbarium shall be $810 each.
   (D)   If a tent service is used for a niche in a columbarium, a fee of $150
will be charged.
   (E)   There is a fee of $150 for opening and closing of a crypt, which
includes a mausoleum tray and a tent service.
   (F)   Any person purchasing a crypt is responsible for any engraving upon
said crypt.
(Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002; Am. Ord. 890, passed 2-3-2003; Am. Ord. 987,
passed 11-5-2007; Am. Ord. 991, passed 3-3-2008; Am. Ord. 1182, passed 12-20-
2021)
§ 92.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR COMMUNITY MAUSOLEUMS.
   (A)   All rules and regulations as set out above in §
92.05 for the Greenwood Cemetery are reiterated and incorporated by reference
herein as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Only one vase per crypt shall be allowed. All vases are to be approved
by the Cemetery Sexton.
   (C)    All the information on the crypt door shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   Name. Letter size for the first name shall be one and one-half
inches tall and the last name shall be two inches tall.
      (2)   Date of birth and death. Letter and number size for these dates
shall be one and one-quarter inches for each character.
      (3)   Date of marriage. Letter and number size for this date shall be one
inch.
      (4)   Emblems of organization. No more than two emblems or organizations
shall be included on the crypt door and such emblems of organizations shall be
bronze.
   (D)   All lettering, vase, emblems and niche plaques on the crypt doors
shall be uniform.
   (E)   All information on the crypt doors shall be approved by the Cemetery
Sexton before being affixed to those doors.
(Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002; Am. Ord. 890, passed 2-3-2003; Am. Ord. 1182,
passed 12-20-2021)
§ 92.10 EMBALMING BEFORE INTERMENT.
   All bodies that shall be interred in either a private mausoleum or a
community mausoleum shall be embalmed before being interred.
(Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to have violated the terms of this chapter shall be fined
in a penal sum of not more than $150 for each violation.
(Am. Ord. 885, passed 8-5-2002)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
93.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended the Federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et seq.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 -
93.09 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with: a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (See I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined under FAMILIAL STATUS and §
93.09.
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 USC 802 (See also I.C. 22-
9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite (See I.C. 22-9.5-2-10).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individual, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 USC, receiver, and fiduciaries.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
93.10 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one time. The
sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies any other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)    To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or rent;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expenses of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such perosn equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1999, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Lights, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               C.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               D.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (d)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and of the American National standard for
buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (Commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3.
      (e)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the term or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
that race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
93.03-
93.06.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color or law, by force or threat of
force wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations of facilities described in division (A);
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $1,000; and if
bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000; and if death
results shall be subject to additional fines.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
as defined in §
93.02(B) above is revised to include families regardless of the actual
perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its
members.
(Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or Federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
“elderly persons” (as defined in the state or Federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral and complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city because of
a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elect to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
Complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 of the Indiana
Code and the Chief Elected Officer of the city shall refer all said complaints
to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the city or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 728, passed 3-15-1993; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Public Health and Safety Matters
   
94.01   Open burning
   
94.02   Pollution prohibited
   
94.03   Removal of debris, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, refuse, junk and
tires
Public Nuisances
   
94.15   Weeds and rank vegetation
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS
§ 94.01 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OPEN BURNING. All fires of any kind located within the city and outside
of a permanent building structure.
      WOOD PRODUCTS. Material consisting of, or wholly derived from, wood or
vegetation.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall openly burn any material within
the city except as allowed by this section.
   (C)   Exemptions to the prohibition on open burning for maintenance purposes
are as follows:
      (1)   A person may open burn vegetation from a farm, an orchard, a
nursery, a tree farm or a drainage ditch.
      (2)   A person may op burn clean petroleum products for the purpose of
maintaining or repairing railroad tracks, including the railroad rights-of-way,
but not including railroad ties.
   (D)   All exemptions that are allowed under division (C) above must comply
with the following conditions:
      (1)   A person who open burns shall extinguish the fire if the fire
creates a nuisance or fire hazard.
      (2)   Burning may not be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnation.
      (3)   All fires must be attended at all times during burning until
completely extinguished.
   (E)   The types of fires described below in this division are allowed under
this section.
      (1)   The following types of fires are allowed: recreational or
ceremonial fires, such as fires for school pep rallies, scouting activities and
fires used for cooking purposes, such as camp fires. The fires shall be subject
to the conditions stated below in this division, and only clean wood products,
paper, charcoal or clean petroleum products may be burned, the local Fire
Department and Health Department must be notified at least 24 hours prior to
any burning where the size of the pile being burned is more than 125 cubic
feet, fires shall not be ignited prior to two hours before the recreational
activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the conclusion of the
activity, the pile to be burned shall be less than or equal to 1,000 cubic feet
and only one pile can be burned at a time, the fire shall not be for disposal
purposes, and fires shall not take place within 500 feet of any fuel storage
area or pipeline.
      (2)   Burning for the purpose of heating shall be done using clean wood
products or paper in a noncombustible container that is sufficiently vented to
induce adequate primary combustion and has enclosed sides and a bottom. Burning
shall be subject to the conditions set out below in this section, and shall
occur only between October 1 and May 15, and shall not be conducted for the
purpose of disposal.
      (3)   Unless specified otherwise, the following conditions apply to any
fire allowed by this section:
         (a)   Fires must be attended at all times and until completely
extinguished.
         (b)   At any time a fire creates a pollution problem, threat to public
health, nuisance or a fire hazard, it shall be extinguished.
         (c)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnation, or
when a pollution or ozone action day has been declared.
         (d)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local
laws, rules and ordinances.
         (e)   Adequate fire fighting equipment shall be on site for
extinguishing purposes during burning times.
   (F)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a civil fine not
to exceed $150. Each event of noncompliance shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 859, passed 4-1-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 33
§ 94.02 POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, corporation or firm to
suffer or permit any cellar, vault, private drain, pool, privy, sewer or ground
upon any premises, belonging to or occupied by the person or persons,
corporation or firm to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to public
health.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any distiller, brewer, tanner, soap-boiler, tallow
candler, butcher, dyer, livery stable keeper or other persons to discharge or
cause to be discharged out of or to permit the flow from any stillhouse,
workshop, livery stable, manufactory or other house or place any foul or
nauseous liquid or foul or offensive substance of any kind whatever into or
upon any adjacent ground or lot or into any street or alley of the city.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to occupy or keep any ground or other
premises in a condition so as to be offensive or a nuisance in the neighborhood
or to any person or family within the limits of the city.
(`81 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. 54, passed 10-14-1902)
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to use,
operate, construct or maintain any privy, outdoor toilet, any hog pen or pen or
structure for the feeding of livestock, or to maintain or operate any business
or structure which may give off nauseous, foul or offensive gases or odors, or
to permit any offal, filth or noisome substance to be collected or remain on
any premises within 200 feet of the site of any well furnishing or supplying
the citizens of the city with water for domestic and commercial purposes, and
the well site is hereby defined as being that strip of land lying between the
west line of Lots 9, 10, and 11 in Block H in the city, and the flood wall.
(`81 Code, § 15-13) (Ord. 266, passed 3-13-1945) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS, TRASH, GARBAGE, RUBBISH, LITTER, REFUSE, JUNK AND
TIRES.
   (A)   Municipal department responsible for administration. Unless
specifically stated elsewhere in this section, the Building Inspector shall be
responsible for the administration of actions taken under this section
including, but not limited to, the issuance of notices to landowners and other
persons, the issuance of certification of cost to the County Auditor, and the
administration of the appeals procedure.
   (B)   Maintaining premises free of certain motor vehicles or parts, debris,
trash, litter, garbage, refuse, and junk.
      (1)   The owner of any lot or parcel of real estate within the city shall
maintain the premises, including the real estate, or any alley or sidewalk
abutting the real estate, free of all motor vehicle parts, all debris, trash,
rubbish, litter, garbage, refuse and junk when such material is within view
from any public premises or public alley, street or highway, to such an extent
that the premises, in the Building Inspector's opinion, is a hazard to health,
safety and welfare.
      (2)   The presence of the items described in the division (1) is
injurious to the public welfare and is a nuisance.
   (C)   Inspection and notice of violation.
      (1)   The Building Inspector is entitled to enter upon the premises of
any real property within the city to determine compliance with this section. If
the Building Inspector determines there is a violation of this section he or
she shall cause to be issued, a written notice to the owner(s) of the real
estate requiring removal of the material within ten days. The notice must also
inform the landowner that failure to comply will result in the city removing
and disposing of the material at the landowner's expense. The notice must also
inform the landowner of his/her right to appeal the Building Inspector's
determination according to the procedure set forth herein. The Building
Inspector will determine the identity of the landowner and the landowner's
address from the tax duplicate records of the County Auditor.
      (2)   The notice, referenced in the previous division, shall be served by
one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified mail upon the landowner, addressed to the owner's last
known address.
         (b)   Personal service upon the landowner, such service to be made by
any regular or reserve police officer of the city, or by any official of the
city.
         (c)   Posting a copy of such notice in a conspicuous place either upon
any principal structure located upon the property, or the property itself, if
there is no structure thereon.
   (D)   Failure to remove and notice of abatement. If the landowner fails to
remove the material within the time prescribed, the Building Inspector may
cause the city or its agent to remove and dispose of the material as allowed
under I.C. 36-1-6-2 (as amended). The Building Inspector must then prepare a
certified statement of the actual costs of the city incurred in removing and
disposing of the material plus any additional administration costs incurred in
the city's effort to enforce this section. The certified statement of costs
must be delivered to the landowner of the property by certified mail at his or
her last known address as determined by the tax duplicate records of the County
Auditor. The landowner must pay the amount specified in the certified statement
to the Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after receiving the statement. If the
landowner fails to pay the amount within the required time, a certified
statement of the landowner's failure to pay the cost will be filed with the
office of the County Auditor. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10-4 (as amended), the
Auditor will then place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against the
property affected by the work. The amount will thereafter be collected and
disbursed to the general fund of the city, as are other property taxes.
   (E)   Lien upon property. In addition to the above procedure, if the
landowner fails to remove the material within the time specified in the notice
provided for herein, and the city, or its agent, must remove the material, the
Building Inspector may file with the County Recorder a lien against the
property, which lien may be foreclosed as are other similar liens. Any
additional cost created by the necessity of the city having to remove and
dispose of such material, and foreclose such lien, may be added to the cost of
enforcing compliance with this section.
   (F)   Notice of appeal. Any landowner may appeal to the Board of Public
Works and Safety with regard to any action under this section. An appeal of the
removal and disposal of material, or the costs associated with the removal,
must be submitted in writing and be received within ten days of the initial
notice of violation or within ten days of receipt of the certified statement of
costs. The Board of Public Works and Safety will review an appeal of any notice
of violation or statement of costs under this section at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 912, passed 6-7-2004)
Cross-reference:
   For additional provisions on refuse, see
Chapter 55
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 94.15 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OWNER. The owner of record.
      RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the
senses, health or well-being of the residents of the city.
      (1)   Any plant growth which is or may be harmful to the senses, health
or well-being of the residents of the city.
      (2)   Any grass, weeds or plant growth which have been removed from
property and which have been left lying withing any public way.
      WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation other than rose bushes, shrubs,
ornamental plants, or plants cultivated in an orderly manner for the purpose of
producing food.
   (B)   (1)   No owner of real property shall allow any growth of weeds or
rank vegetation in excess of six inches in height upon his or her property.
      (2)   No owner of real property shall allow the growth of rank vegetation
upon his or her property.
   (C)   When any investigation by an employee or officer of the city reveals
to that person that weeds and/or rank vegetation are allowed to grow in
violation of this section, that person shall report the incident to the Office
of the Building Inspector, who shall then determine ownership of the property
in violation. The Office of the Building Inspector shall then cause the owner
of the property to be issued a three-day written notice to remove the weeds and
rank vegetation from the property which is in violation of this section. The
notice shall:
      (1)   List the owner of the property, and if there is more than one owner
of the property, only one of the owners needs to be notified;
      (2)   Describe the property so as to give notice of its location;
      (3)   State that a growth of vegetation and/or weeds on the property is
in violation of this section, and describe the nature of the violation; and
      (4)   State that if the landowner fails to remove the vegetation within
three days of the landowner’s receipt of the notice, the city shall remove the
vegetation, with the cost of the removal to be paid by the landowner.
   (D)   The initial notice of each growing season to remove the vegetation
and/or weeds in violation of this section shall be served by one of more of the
following methods:
      (1)   Certified mail or first class mail upon one or more of the
landowners, addressed to the last known address of the landowner(s).
      (2)   Delivery by an employee of the city, sending the notice for
personal delivery to the owner(s).
   (E)   (1)   If an initial notice of the violation of this section each
growing season has been provided by certified mail, first class mail or
equivalent service as described above, a continuous abatement notice may be
posted at the property at the time of abatement instead of by certified mail,
first class mail or equivalent service as required above. A continuous
abatement notice serves as notice to the owner(s) of the real property that
each subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of
violation was provided may be abated by the city or its contractors.
      (2)   If a landowner fails to remove vegetation/weeds allowed to grow in
violation of this chapter, the city may remove the vegetation/weeds by use of
its own equipment, or the city may contract with a private entity for the
removal of the vegetation/weeds. In any event, the cost of removal incurred by
the city shall be paid by the landowner.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual
costs incurred by the city in the removal of the rank vegetation and weeds,
plus $20 for the administrative costs of the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office. The
statement must be delivered to the owner of the property by certified mail,
first class mail, or by personal service on the owner, and the owner shall pay
the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer within three days of service. If the
landowner fails to pay the amount within the required time period, a certified
copy of the statement of costs shall be filed in the office of the County
Auditor. The Auditor shall then place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate
against the property affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected
when taxes are collected and shall be distributed to the general fund of the
city.
   (G)   The Building Inspector of the city may exempt from the provisions of
this section any property which, in the opinion of the Building Inspector,
consists of a large undeveloped tract which historically has not been
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section of the city code,
or which in the opinion of the Building Inspector otherwise does not qualify to
be subject to the provisions of this section of the city code. Any decision of
the Building Inspector regarding the exemption of property from the provisions
of this section of the city code shall be subject to appeal by either the
property owner or any other interested party to the Board of Public Works and
Safety of the city, which shall make the final determination as to whether a
parcel of real estate should or should not be exempt from the provisions of
this section of the city code.
   (H)   A violation of this section may be enforced pursuant to any action
authorized by law, including but not limited to, the procedures stated in this
code. All legal costs, including attorney fees, shall be recovered by the city.
   (I)   A person who violates a provision of this section, in addition to the
aforementioned remedy, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount $50
for each day during which a violation exists. If the violation is of a
continuing nature, each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (J)   The city may perform the work on the removal of the rank vegetation
and weeds from landowners’ property by its own employees, or it may decide to
have the work performed by outside contractors pursuant to appropriate Indiana
law.
(Ord. 630, passed 12-22-1986; Am. Ord. 644, passed 1-20-1988; Am. Ord. 909,
passed 5-17-2004; Am. Ord. 910, passed 6-7-2004; Am. Ord. 1010, passed 6-1-
2009; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 6-4-2012; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 6-3-2013; Am. Ord.
1113, passed 9-6-2016; Am. Ord. 1139, passed 3-5-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Protection of streets and alleys; prohibited activities
   
95.02   Excavations
   
95.03   Homeowner storm drain culverts
§ 95.01 PROTECTION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any game, play or sport in any public street
or alley to the annoyance of another.
   (B)   No person shall hitch or fasten any animal to any tree or near enough
thereto to injure the same.
   (C)   No minor shall have or carry any toy pistol, toy gun or rubber sling
in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public grounds within the city for any
purpose whatever.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone or
other missile at any bird or other animal within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (E)   No person shall stop any animal or vehicle on or over any sidewalk or
street crossing to the annoyance of another.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or cast upon the sidewalk
in the city any lemon, orange or banana peel.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building upon and
along any street in the city without a written permit so to do from the Clerk-
Treasurer by order of the Common Council.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any horse or team
standing in any street or alley within the city without having securely
fastened the same, and when so attached to any vehicle, the traces shall be
dropped.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to station upon the sidewalks of any of the
streets of the city fruit stands, peanut stands, platforms or tables in order
to expose for sale fruits, cakes, confectionery or other articles.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot or part of lot bordering
on any street in the city, in front of which any sidewalk shall have been laid,
to allow or permit any hole, depression or other condition to exist in the
same, rendering the same dangerous to travel.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person not having the charge of the
digging of any excavation, or having any obstruction in any street or alley of
the city, to tear down any fence or barrier placed upon the same, or to remove
any lamp placed thereon or to walk upon any newly made cement sidewalk or
cement street or alley crossing having barriers about the same for the purpose
of protecting it from foot passengers.
   (L)   Any person having the use of any portion of the street or sidewalk,
for the purpose of repairing any building, shall cause two red lights to be
placed in front of the obstruction and at either end of the same from dusk
until sunrise each night during the time the obstruction remains.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause any cart,
wagon or vehicle to be loaded and heaped up with manure, sand, earth, mud,
clay, chip shavings or rubbish of any kind, so that the contents or any part
thereof shall be scattered in any street, alley or public ground in the city.
   (N)   (1)   Notwithstanding the aforesaid prohibition regarding sidewalks,
the city, by and through its Board of Public Works and Safety, may grant a
permit to exempt any person or organization from the prohibitions set out
herein regarding the obstruction of a sidewalk. The city, by and through its
Board of Public Works and Safety, shall enact rules and regulations governing
the use of sidewalks within the city by those persons or organizations granted
a permit as herein provided, which rules and regulations may include, but are
not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   The price of the permit;
         (b)   Limitations on the size, location, design, use, purpose and
duration of any structure or obstruction erected or placed upon the city’s
sidewalks;
         (c)   A requirement that the permitee indemnify the city against any
loss arising out of the use of the permit for the obstruction; and
         (d)   Any other matter effecting the public health, safety and
welfare.
      (2)   The rules and regulations enacted by the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall be subject to subsequent ratification by resolution of the Common
Council.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any buildings, fence or
other obstruction upon any street, alley or sidewalk or public grounds in the
city.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to permit the branches of any shade tree growing
upon any of the sidewalks or streets of the city to be less than nine feet
above the surface of the street or sidewalk, and the owner of any lot or part
of lot abutting on any street or sidewalk in front of which shade trees are
found with branches reaching below nine feet, shall cause the same to be
trimmed upon notice from the City Street Commissioner. The notice shall be
deemed legally sufficient if given by the Street Commissioner in a method of
publishing the same in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published
in the city.
   (Q)   In the event the owner of property fails to cut or remove the limbs
reaching below nine feet from the surface of the sidewalk or street after ten
days notice so to do, the city may, by its proper officers and agents, remove
the branches, and shall in no way be liable to the property owner for any
damage to any shade tree by the acts of the agents and servants of the city
acting under authority of this section.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or cause to be sold upon
the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public grounds of the city, at auction or
public outcry, any wares, merchandise, furniture, patent medicines or other
articles, provided that this section shall not apply to the sale of goods made
by any officer or by order of court.
   (S)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any of the streets,
alleys or public grounds of the city any broken glass, old fruit can, articles
of tinware or any kind of rubbish whatever.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put or pile any brick, sand or
gravel, stone or other material in any street or alley within the city without
permission from the Mayor or Common Council.
(`81 Code, § 20-2) (Ord. 63, passed 11-11-1902; Am. Ord. 1044, passed 10-3-
2011)
   (U)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or
corporation to deposit, burn, set fire to or otherwise destroy any rubbish,
garbage, leaves or other public pavement within the city, if the deposit,
burning or destruction of the garbage, rubbish leaves or other substance or
material shall be injurious to or destructive of the paved street, sidewalk,
curb, gutter or other pavement.
      (2)   The burning or setting fire to leaves, garbage, rubbish or any
other material is hereby conclusively presumed to be injurious to and
destructive of any pavement.
(`81 Code, § 15-10) (Ord. 205, passed 11-8-1927)
   (V)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to skate with roller skates
or to roller skate upon the sidewalks of the city, provided that nothing herein
shall be construed as forbidding roller skating on the walks in and around the
City Hall park, and the grounds of the city public schools.
(`81 Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 162, passed 4-9-1919)
   (W)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation
having the control, management, possession or ownership of any lot, tract or
parcel of ground within the city, along and adjoining which any sidewalks
regularly used by foot passengers extend, to permit or allow any snow or ice to
be and remain on any sidewalk or sidewalks regularly used by foot passengers so
extending along and abutting the lots, tracts or parcels of land in the city
longer than a period of eight hours during the daytime, after the snow has
fallen or the ice has formed and frozen.
(`81 Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 180, passed 1- -1921; Am. Ord. 932, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   General offenses, see
Chapter 130
   Open burning, see §
94.01
§ 95.02 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up or disturb any street,
alley, paving or sidewalk which is now or hereafter to be laid in the city for
the purpose of making any connection of any sewers, gas or water mains, or for
any other purpose whatsoever, except in cases of extreme emergency, unless
application be made to the City Code Inspector for permission therefor. All
applications shall state the full name and address of the person making the
application, shall designate the place, extent and purpose of the disturbance,
and shall be accompanied by a fee as hereinafter provided or as in the opinion
of the Code Inspector shall be sufficient to pay for the expenses of repaving
the pavement or sidewalk. A public service corporation operating under a
franchise from the city or under an indeterminate permit of the State Public
Service Commission and any person or corporation operating a business where
they regularly excavate streets or alleys for the purpose of construction of
utility lines of all types to provide utility service shall give bond with
surety, in the amount as in the opinion of the Board of Public works and Safety
shall at all times be sufficient to cover all expenses connected with the
repairing, including inspection of the work done, of the street, alley, or
sidewalk; provided, however, that the Board of Public Works and Safety may
discontinue the arrangement at any time and require a specific charge for each
opening.
   (B)   Upon compliance of the terms hereof, the Code Inspector shall issue a
permit authorizing the applicant to disturb, dig up or excavate in the pavement
or sidewalk. The permit shall designate the extent of the disturbance and the
length of time for which permission is granted. A copy of the permit shall be
retained by the Code Inspector as part of his or her records.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, except those who have given bond as authorized by
this section, desiring to dig up, disturb or excavate the pavements or
sidewalks in the city, in addition to making application in writing to the Code
Inspector as herein above provided, shall pay the charges designated in
division (2) below for openings for all classes of pavements, streets, avenues
or alleys, and the money derived from the payment shall be applied by the city
to repair and maintain the pavement so disturbed.
      (2)   The charge shall be $15 plus the rate of $5 per square foot
disturbed, but in no event to be less than a minimum of 5 square feet disturbed
or $25.
   (D)   The person to whom the permit has been issued, shall erect and
maintain, at his or her own expense, all necessary guards and danger signals,
shall furnish all necessary watchmen to protect the public during its progress,
and shall assume all liability for accident or damage to persons or property
that may occur in the course or by reason of the work, and if in the judgment
of the Code Inspector it is necessary for the protection of the city, the
applicant shall enter into a bond in an amount as the Code Inspector may deem
proper agreeing to save the city harmless for all loss and damage by reason of
the work on account of injury to persons or property.
   (E)   Upon the completion of the work, the applicants shall refill all
trenches and excavations. All openings in streets or alleys shall be promptly
filled with sand and evenly compacted throughout, ramming in thin layers while
being put in or by flooding with water. Upon completion of the backfill, the
applicant shall immediately place the pavement in a safe condition for traffic
by laying a temporary pavement, properly supported with the top of the pavement
flush with the pavement surface, and shall remove from the street, alley or
sidewalk all unused material, refuse and dirt placed in the vicinity of the
work resulting from its prosecution, shall restore the street or alley to a
condition satisfactory to the Code Inspector, notifying the Code Inspector of
the action. In case the work shall not be completed in the time limited in the
permit, the city may, if it deems necessary, take steps to backfill the trench
and/or replace the pavement over the opening for which the permit has been
issued, and the applicant shall be responsible for payment to the city for this
work. If an extension of time beyond the date is necessary for completion of
the work, a new application shall be made and a new permit issued. All persons
in charge of any work on the streets or alleys shall retain and have the permit
in their possession at all times while so engaged. After the person to whom the
permit has been issued has complied with the foregoing sections in all
respects, the holder thereof shall be relieved from all further expense for
repaving the street or alley, and shall not be held responsible for the upkeep
and maintenance of the pavement from and after that date, except when a defect
develops by reason of improper workmanship below the pavement itself.
   (F)   The surety bond given by any applicant pursuant to division (A) above
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the applicant in
repairing the street, alley or sidewalk damaged by the excavation to the
satisfaction of the Code Inspector within 30 days after the excavation has been
made unless extension of time is granted by the Code Inspector.
   (G)   When a part of any street or alley is ordered improved by paving by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, all persons desiring to lay any water or
gas mains, electric, telephone or telegraph wires, or sewers, drains or other
pipes in that part of the street or alley to be improved shall cause the same
to be laid within 20 days after the passage of the final resolution ordering
the improvement.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to notify
by mail all persons owning property abutting upon a street or alley ordered to
be improved to make any and all service connections as provided in division (G)
above. The failure of the Clerk-Treasurer to give the notice shall not relieve
any person from compliance with the provisions herein contained.
(Ord. 566, passed 3-1-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 HOMEOWNER STORM DRAIN CULVERTS.
   (A)   This section shall regulate the installation of culverts and the
enclosing of storm drains along streets and roadways within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   No landowner shall enclose any storm drain or ditch along the streets
within the corporate limits of the city or install any culvert, pipe, tile or
tube therein unless a permit has been issued for the same by the Storm Water
Committee. An application for such permit shall be made on forms provided at
the Building and Zoning office in City Hall.
   (C)   Any landowner who wishes to install a residential driveway culvert or
field entrance on a street within the corporate limits of the city shall, prior
to any installation, apply for a permit from the Storm Water Committee through
the Building and Zoning office. Any permit which is issued shall specify the
diameter of pipe required. The permit fee shall be $25.
   (D)   The landowner shall provide the Storm Water Committee through the
Building and Zoning office with a detailed drawing of the proposed work
specifying the length of the ditch to be enclosed, the location of inlets and
any other relevant information. Any permit which is issued shall specify the
diameter of pipe, the grades of the surface and the type of fill which shall be
required. However, in the event further engineering is required at the location
as determined by the Storm Water Committee, said Committee shall have the right
to obtain an engineering report on the location in an effort to determine the
appropriateness of the diameter and length of the culvert, pipe, tile or tube.
An engineering report shall be at the expense of the Storm Water Utility.
   (E)   The installation of the culvert, pipe, tile or tube shall be performed
according to the specifications set forth in the permit.
   (F)   The costs of the culvert, pipe, tile or tube shall be at the expense
of the landowner except the city in its sole discretion may provide labor and
equipment for the installation of any such driveway culverts or field
entrances. All maintenance and cleaning of obstructions prior to the
installation of the culvert and subsequent to the installation of such culvert
shall be the responsibility of the landowner. If the storm drain or culvert
becomes inadequate, or if it is improperly installed in violation of the
permit, the Storm Water Committee may cause to be removed such storm drain or
culvert which fronts the city streets within the corporate limits of the city
if such drain remains obstructed.
   (G)   The diameter and length of the culvert, pipe, tile or tube allowed in
the city street right-of-way within the corporate limits of the city shall be
determined by the Storm Water Committee based upon a review of the location by
the Storm Water Committee. This item shall be made of metal, PVC pipe or
concrete.
   (H)   The Common Council shall have the right to change or amend the permit
approval procedure and to delegate the responsibility to a particular employee
by resolution. The Common Council hereby designates the Storm Water Committee
to develop the permit forms and to approve and deny the permits described
herein.
   (I)   The installation of culverts, pipes, tiles or tubes for any purpose
other than a residential driveway or a field entrance shall be the total
responsibility of the landowner without any involvement by the city.
(Ord. 1075, passed 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Closing times for parks
   
96.02   Exceptions
   
96.03   Dog park rules
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 CLOSING TIMES FOR PARKS.
   All city parks within the city shall be closed at 11:00 p.m., local time,
until 6:00 a.m. the following morning, and during the hours of closure, no
person shall be entitled to be present on any portion of the city's public
parks, and all vehicles must be removed from said city parks during the
aforesaid hours of closure.
(Ord. 911, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 96.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   That upon prior application being made to the city Board of Public Works and
Safety by any individual, group, or organization, desiring to use a city park
for a particular purpose which use would extend during the normal hours of
closure of said park, the city Board of Public Works and Safety may, in its
sole discretion, grant permission to such individual, group, or organization,
to be present at the park for specified purposes at specified periods during
normal closure hours for a particular park.
(Ord. 911, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 96.03 DOG PARK RULES.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a dog park the location of which is the
Walter Hagedorn Park east of the swimming pool and the tennis courts known as
the old softball field.
   (B)   As a part of the operation of this park, there are certain rules
hereby adopted which are to govern the use and access to said park by those
people who qualify to use the park as follows:
      (1)   Hours for usage of the park are from sunrise to sunset.
      (2)   This park is for the use of dogs only and those dogs must wear a
collar, have an owner identification tag attached to the collar, and a tag
which verifies that the dogs are current on all vaccinations.
      (3)   All dogs who enter the park must be on a leash when entering and
exiting the park. Pinch or prong collars and spike collars are prohibited to be
used by the dogs within the park.
      (4)   No children under six years of age are allowed in the park and
those children under the age of 16 years of age must be accompanied by an
adult. Any such children in the park must not provoke any such dogs and such
children should not run or chase any dogs within the park.
      (5)   No dogs under the age of four months are allowed within the park.
      (6)   The owners or custodians of the dogs must be within the park and
within view of their dogs at all times that the dogs are within the park.
Female dogs in heat and aggressive dogs are not permitted within the park.
      (7)   All dogs within the park who do not have a leash must be under the
voice control of their owners or custodians. Those dogs which cannot be voice
controlled by their owners or custodians shall be under leash at all times
within the park.
      (8)   No dog food is to be brought within the park.
      (9)   The owners or custodians of the dogs must clean up the dog feces.
All such feces should be sealed in provided plastic bags before disposing of
the same in designated receptacles within the park.
      (10)   If a dog within the park digs holes, the owner or custodian must
fill in any such holes from the materials provided by the city at that
location.
      (11)   Upon request of a police officer or animal control officer, proof
of a current rabies vaccination is required.
      (12)   Failure to abide by these park rules may result in loss of
privileges to the owners or custodians of the dog.
(Ord. 1037, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Upon conviction or admission of any violation of this chapter, the violator
shall be deemed guilty and shall be subject to a penalty of $25 per violation.
(Ord. 911, passed 6-7-2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
113.   PAWNBROKERS AND DEALERS IN PRECIOUS ARTICLES
      
114.   TAXICAB OPERATIONS
      
115.   CABLE SERVICES
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
117.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING
Section
   
110.01   Regulation and distribution of advertising
§ 110.01 REGULATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post
bills, erect or maintain signs, posters, or placards, or distribute bills, hand
bills, advertising matter or samples within the corporate limits of the city
for the purpose of advertising or calling the attention of the amusement,
exhibition or enterprise, or for the purpose of securing publicity for any
scheme or project of any kind or nature whatsoever, without first procuring a
license as provided for in division (B) below; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to advertisement of any kind or character by any
religious, school, civic, fraternal or charitable or local athletic
organization advertising to promote its own interest, nor to the distribution
of samples or advertising matter by any person, firm or corporation or agent of
the person, firm or corporation permanently engaged in business in the city,
for the purpose of advertising the business or occupation of the person, firm
or corporation, provided that each of the samples or pieces of advertising
matter so to be distributed shall bear an imprint of the name of the person,
firm or corporation.
   (B)   A general bill poster license shall be issued to any person, firm or
corporation applying at and for the sum of $25 per year, which license shall
entitle the holder, during the term of the year, to post bills, erect and
maintain signs, posters and placards, and distribute bills, hand bills,
advertising matter and samples for the purpose of advertising and calling the
attention of the public to any lawful article of commerce, brand of goods, show
entertainment, amusement, exhibition or enterprise, or for the purpose of
securing publicity for any lawful scheme or project of any kind or nature
whatsoever, for him or herself and for any and all other persons, firms or
corporations who may employ the licensee for the purpose or purposes; provided,
however, that the doing of any and all work in connection with the advertising
service shall be performed by the licensee or his or her immediate employees,
and shall not be held to permit of the transfer or assignment, directly or
indirectly, of any right under the license to any other person, firm or
corporation not regularly employed by him or her.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to distribute samples of
advertising matter within the corporate limits of the city, and not desiring a
general bill poster license as provided, shall be entitled to secure a special
distributing license for the distribution of samples, hand bills and other
advertising matter by the payment of the sum of $3 for the first 1,000 units of
advertising matter so to be distributed and the further sum of $1 for each
additional 1,000 units of advertising matter so to be distributed. The special
distributing license shall be issued for a period of not more than three days
from the date of issue, and the word UNIT as used, shall be construed to mean
any sample together with all advertising matter relating, or all advertising
matter relating to any one article, business or event which shall be
distributed simultaneously to each prospective customer. All licenses herein
provided for shall be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation, who shall procure from the Clerk-
Treasurer a license for any show, entertainment, exhibition, carnival, street
fair or circus, and who shall have paid the license fee provided for the right
to conduct the same, shall be exempt from the provisions of division (C) above,
and the license fee so paid by the person, firm or corporation shall be held to
include the right to advertise the same.
(`81 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 209, passed 10-9-1928) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Licensing of theaters, concerts and other exhibitions
   
111.02   Licensing and regulation of sport, skill or exhibition games
§ 111.01 LICENSING OF THEATERS, CONCERTS AND OTHER EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall exhibit or participate in exhibiting any
show, theater, concert or other exhibition of whatever name or description
within the corporate limits of the city, for which an admission fee is charged
or received, either directly or indirectly, without first procuring a license
therefor from the City Clerk-Treasurer; provided, however, that this section
shall not be construed as to include lectures of scientific, historic or
literary subjects.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license for any theater,
performance, show or amusement not excepted by division (A) above on payment by
the person to the Clerk-Treasurer of the sums hereinafter set forth: for one
day the sum of $15, and for each additional day thereafter the sum of $5.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to conduct any theatrical,
magical, musical, minstrel or any other show or amusement or shooting gallery,
skating rink, museum, merry go round or other similar carnival rides shall
first secure a license to do so from the Clerk-Treasurer. This license shall
particularly describe the premises where the proposed amusement or
entertainment is to be conducted, and the term for which the license is issued.
The license fee to be paid for each separate show, theater or amusement, as
aforementioned, shall be as follows: for each day $15, and $5 per day for each
day thereafter. No license issued under the provisions of this section shall be
assignable or transferable to any other person, firm or corporation or any
other location.
(Ord. 584, passed 8-1-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 LICENSING AND REGULATING OF SPORT, SKILL OR EXHIBITION GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to operate,
exhibit or display for public patronage any sport or skill or exhibition game,
or device, mechanically, manually or electrically operated, including marble
tables or machines, plunger shooting tables or machines, high score games,
digger or grab games or machines, skill games or machines, and any other game,
table, device, machine or instrument in which coins or tokens are used, without
first obtaining a license as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The price of the license shall be $4 for each six months for each
game, table, machine or device, and the license shall not be granted for a
period less than six months, but during this period may be transferred to any
other game, table, machine or device in the custody or possession of the
licensee exchanged or substituted for the game, table, machine or device for
which the license was originally issued. Any person required to obtain a
license under this section shall pay the fee herein stipulated to the Clerk-
Treasurer, who shall issue the license, which shall have endorsed thereon the
date of issue, the date of expiration and name of the licensee. At all times
the license shall be affixed or attached to each game, table, machine or device
so as to be plainly visible. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to
provide a sufficient number of licenses of a design as he or she shall deem
proper.
   (C)   Every license issued hereunder is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly, suffer or permit the display or exhibition of anything as a part of
the game, machine or device which is contrary to good morals.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section is intended or shall be construed as
authorizing or permitting the operation or exhibition of any gambling device or
game which now is or hereafter may be prohibited by law.
(`81 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 229, passed 3-10-1936) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Conditions for issuance of license
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the activities of individuals who
engage in door-to-door solicitation and the activities of persons referred to
in this chapter as transient merchants.
(Ord. 589, passed 6-18-1984)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. The act of selling or offering to sell any
merchandise. DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION shall also include solicitations for
charitable causes.
   PERSON. Any human being, partnership, association or corporation.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  Any person or persons who engage in the vending or
selling of merchandise at any place within the corporate limits of the city
temporarily, and who do not intend to become, and do not become, a permanent
merchant within the corporate limits of the city, except that TRANSIENT
MERCHANT shall not mean any group of persons or merchants who engage in the
vending or selling of fresh produce at or near City Hall or other designated
locations in the city after approval by the Board of Public Works during the
months of June, July and August only of each year.
(Ord. 677, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to engage in, or to
attempt to engage in, any business within the corporate limits of the city
until the transient merchant has applied for and obtained from the City Clerk-
Treasurer a transient merchant license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage, or attempt to engage
in, any door-to-door solicitation for any reason within the corporate limits of
the city until the person has first applied for and obtained from the Clerk-
Treasurer a door-to-door solicitation license.
(Ord. 589, passed 6-18-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a transient merchant license to any
person applying for the license, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant has sufficiently established that he or she has been
issued a valid retail merchant certificate by the State Department of Revenue;
      (2)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $100
for a transient merchant license for a period not to exceed one week;
      (3)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $250
for a transient merchant license for a period not to exceed one month; and/or
      (4)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $500
for a transient merchant license for the period not to exceed one year.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a door-to-door solicitation license to
any person applying for the license, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $100
for a door-to-door solicitation license for a period not to exceed one week;
      (2)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $250
for a door-to-door solicitation license for a period not to exceed one month;
and/or
      (3)   The applicant has tendered to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $500
for a door-to-door solicitation license for a period not to exceed one year.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to engage in, or
to attempt to engage in, any business within the corporate limits of the City
of Tell City, Indiana, until said transient merchant has applied for and
obtained from the City Clerk-Treasurer a transient merchant license. Said
transient merchant license application shall include any and all information as
may be required by the City Clerk-Treasurer. Upon approval of any such
application, a permit shall be issued, and all vendors and their employees
shall be provided with identification badges which must be displayed at all
times while engaged in any business within the corporate limits of the City of
Tell City.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a permit, a transient merchant shall only operate
within the corporate limits of the City of Tell City between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, or to attempt to
engage in, any door-to-door solicitation for any reason within the corporate
limits of the City of Tell City, Indiana until said person has applied for and
obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer for the City of Tell City a door-to-door
solicitation license. Said door-to-door solicitation license application shall
include any and all information as may be required by the Clerk-Treasurer of
the City of Tell City. Upon approval of any such application, a permit shall be
issued, and all vendors and their employees shall be provided with
identification badges which must be displayed at all times while engaged in any
business within the corporate limits of the City of Tell City.
(Ord. 589, passed 6-18-1984; Am. Ord. 1177, passed 9-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: PAWNBROKERS AND DEALERS IN PRECIOUS ARTICLES
Section
   
113.01   Regulation of pawnbrokers
   
113.02   Sale or exchange of certain jewelry, coins, precious stones and metals
§ 113.01 REGULATION OF PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PAWNBROKER. Any person who engages in the business of loaning money on
deposit or pledge of personal property or other thing of value, or who engages
in the business of purchasing things of value on condition of reselling the
object to the person pledging or selling it at a stipulated price.
   (B)    Every person engaging in the business of pawnbroker shall execute a
bond payable to the city in the penal sum of $1,000, with good and sufficient
surety, to be approved by the Clerk-Treasurer and conditioned that the
applicant will faithfully observe and conform to all of the regulations and
requirements of the city in relation to pawnbrokers and their business.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a record of the goods, articles or things
pawned or pledged, giving a full description of them, including the
manufacturer, marks, number, brand name, monograms, or letters of any kind on
the articles so pawned or pledged; the name and residence address of the person
pawning or pledging the goods, article or thing, together with a record of his
or her date of birth, social security number, date of sale, and signature of
the person pawning or pledging the item or items. The record shall be made as
soon as possible after the transaction of pawning or pledging is completed, and
in no event shall the entry be delayed longer than one hour after the
transaction. No entry in the record shall be obliterated, erased or defaced.
The record, as well as every article or thing of value pawned or pledged, shall
at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the Police Department.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to prepare, for pickup by the
Police Department, the record of the transactions by the business, before noon
on Mondays and Wednesdays, a legible, correct and complete copy of the records
required by division (C) above of all personal property, valuable articles, or
things received or deposited during the preceding days, setting forth the exact
day the property or thing of value was received or pawned. A separate report
shall be made of each transaction.
   (E)   No pawnbroker shall take or receive any pawn or pledge for money
loaned on property, article or thing of value from any person who is under the
age of 18 years. No pawnbroker shall take or receive any article or thing of
value in pawn or pledge from any person who is, at the time of offering the
article in pawn or pledge, in a state of intoxication.
(Ord. 641, passed 3-21-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 SALE OR EXCHANGE OF CERTAIN JEWELRY, COINS, PRECIOUS STONES AND
METALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons dealing in the purchase, sale or
exchange of secondhand or antique jewelry, coins, watches, diamonds or other
precious stones, cutlery, old gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals,
or any other secondhand manufactured articles, composed wholly or in part of
gold, silver, platinum or other precious metals, to keep a daily register on a
form provided by the Police Department of every article received by them in the
course of their business, and the persons from whom the articles were acquired.
The register shall contain as minute a description of each article as is
possible, including any identification numbers and the manufacturer's name, as
well as the name, age, sex, race, address, driver's license number, general
description of the individual or individuals selling or exchanging the
articles, and their signatures.
   (B)   All persons engaged in business as described in division (A) above
shall furnish to the Chief of Police each day at his or her office by 11:00
a.m. a copy of the register for all transactions which took place during the
preceding day.
   (C)   All persons engaged in business as described in division (A) above
shall retain each and every article received by them in the same state and
condition in which it was received, and all articles received during any one
day's transactions shall be kept separately and shall not be co-mingled with
articles received during any other day's transactions. Furthermore, all
articles shall be made available for examination to members of Police
Department, State Police, or other law enforcement officials at the place of
purchase for a period of five consecutive days after their receipt before the
articles are resold or exchanged, unless written permission is obtained from
the Chief of Police.
   (D)   No person engaged in business, as described in division (A) above,
shall purchase or exchange secondhand or antique jewelry, coins, watches,
diamonds or other precious stones, cutlery or old gold, silver, platinum or
other precious metals or any other secondhand manufactured article composed
wholly or in part of gold, silver, platinum or other precious metals from any
person less than 18 years of age.
   (E)   A transient buyer subject to this section shall include any person,
partnership, corporation or other entity which buys old gold, silver, platinum
or other precious metals, art objects, antique jewelry, gems, watches, and old
coins who engage in, do or transact any transient business in this city and
who, for the purpose of carrying on the business, hire, lease or occupy any
building, structure or vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any transient buyer to engage in any activity
in the city without first having obtained a permit and bond as provided herein.
   (G)   All transient buyers desiring to engage in business in the city shall
first make application in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office in City Hall,
on forms provided by the city, and shall have their pictures taken and their
fingerprints made at the City Police Headquarters, and shall allow sufficient
time to process the application.
   (H)   The registration fee shall be $50 for each registrant, the fee shall
go into the City General Fund, and shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which the permit is issued, regardless of the date issued.
   (I)   Each registrant shall receive a card stating the name of registrant
and the nature of occupation or business and information of due processing by
the city, and shall be used as a proper credential.
   (J)   The registrant shall post a performance bond in the amount of $20,000
to insure that all merchandise purchased in the city is held by the buyer for
five consecutive days at the place of purchase as required by this chapter, and
the bond shall be written to expire December 31 of the year in which it was
purchased.
   (K)   Each transient buyer shall be required to carry on his or her person,
visible to the public, identification bearing his or her name and address, and
the name of his or her business, if any.
(`81 Code, § 15-17) (Ord. 556, passed 3-1-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: TAXICAB OPERATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Operations generally
   
114.03   Business license; required
   
114.04   Business license; application
   
114.05   Business license; insurance required
   
114.06   Business license; facilities required
   
114.07   Business license; issuance
   
114.08   Business license; information
   
114.09   Business license; term and fee
   
114.10   Taxicabs; fare card
   
114.11   Taxicabs; signs
   
114.12   Complaints
   
114.13   Suspension and revocation of license
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle designed and constructed to accommodate and
transport passengers, not more than six in number, not including the driver,
which does not operate over any definite and designated routes within the city,
and the destination of which is designated by the passenger or passengers at
the time of such transportation.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.02 OPERATIONS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful to drive or operate a taxicab in the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.03 BUSINESS LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to drive or operate a taxicab in the city without first
having secured a license to do so as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.04 BUSINESS LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   Any person who intends to operate a new taxicab company, renew an existing
taxicab license or expand existing service in the city shall file an
application form with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such application shall be in
writing, signed and duly sworn by the applicant, and shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the person, partnership, firm or corporation
requesting the license and, if the applicant is a firm or partnership, the name
and address of each of the officers;
   (B)   A list of the make, model, factory number and state license number of
each motor vehicle to be used as a taxicab;
   (C)   A statement that the applicant owns the vehicles described in division
(B) above and that the applicant will operate these vehicles in providing
taxicab service; and
   (D)   Proof of the insurance coverage required under §
114.05.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.05 BUSINESS LICENSE; INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license to operate a taxicab shall be issued unless the applicant files
with the City Clerk-Treasurer a written statement from the applicant's insurer
stating that the applicant has a policy of liability insurance for each
taxicab, said policy to be issued by a company authorized to do business in the
State of Indiana, with liability limits of at least $500,000 for any one
accident. Said policy of insurance shall contain a provision that the city
shall be notified by the insurance company at least ten days prior to the
cancellation or modification of said policy.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.06 BUSINESS LICENSE; FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   No license to operate a taxicab shall be issued unless the applicant has an
office in the city from which to control the operation of the taxicab company.
Such office shall be equipped with a parking lot sufficient to accommodate all
licensed taxicabs.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.07 BUSINESS LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall within 14 days of receipt of the completed
application issue the business license to the applicant, provided there is
compliance with all other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Clerk-Treasurer fails to issue the license within 14 days of
completion of the application, the applicant may appeal the denial to the Board
of Public Works. The Board shall at its next regularly scheduled meeting
determine whether the applicant has complied with all provisions of this
chapter and shall authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to issue the license if there
is such compliance.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.08 BUSINESS LICENSE; INFORMATION.
   (A)   The following information shall be included on the business license
and shall be kept current:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The name and address of the taxicab company;
      (3)   A list of the make, model, factory number, and license plate number
of each motor vehicle to be used as a taxicab;
      (4)   A statement that the licensee has sufficient insurance to meet
chapter requirements; and
      (5)   The date of issuance of the license with the signature of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   If a change is made in the information contained in the license, the
old license shall be delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer, cancelled and destroyed
and a new license issued in its place.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.09 BUSINESS LICENSE; TERM AND FEE.
   The license shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance. The fee for a taxicab license shall be $100 and shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer in the form of either cash or certified check.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.10 TAXICABS; FARE CARD.
   (A)   Every licensed taxicab shall be equipped with a card prominently
displayed showing the fares and rates to be charged for the transportation of
passengers and baggage.
   (B)   It is unlawful to collect fares and charges other than those specified
on the fare card.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.11 TAXICABS; SIGNS.
   Any motor vehicle licensed as a taxicab shall be designated by the name of
the company as it appears on the business license and the name shall be printed
in legible letters on the vehicle.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.12 COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints against licensed taxicab companies shall be referred to the
Board of Public Works. If a preliminary investigation determines that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, the complaint may either be referred to
the Board of Public Works for a public hearing on the suspension or revocation
of the license or the City Attorney for action.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.13 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license properly issued under the terms and conditions of this chapter
may be revoked or suspended by the Board of Public Works upon the failure of
the owner or operator to operate any taxicab in compliance with the terms of
this chapter. The owner or operator shall be given five days' written notice of
such violation, and upon public hearing and adequate proof of noncompliance the
license may be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the mandatory requirements of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $1,000 or to suspension or revocation of the taxicab license. Each
day that a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 906, passed 3-1-2004)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Documents incorporated by reference
   
115.03   Preemption
   
115.04   Actions of franchising authority
   
115.05   Notice
Franchise Terms; Standards of Service
   
115.15   Grant of franchise
   
115.16   Conditions of street occupancy
   
115.17   Restoration of public ways
   
115.18   Relocation
   
115.19   Trimming of trees and shrubbery
   
115.20   Use of grantee’s equipment by franchising authority
   
115.21   Safety requirements
   
115.22   Aerial and underground construction
   
115.23   Availability of service
   
115.24   Subscriber charges for extension of service
   
115.25   Service to public buildings
   
115.26   Emergency override
Regulation by Franchise Authority
   
115.40   Franchise fees
   
115.41   Rates and charges
   
115.42   Renewal of franchise
   
115.43   Conditions of sale
   
115.44   Transfer of franchise
Administration and Enforcement
   
115.55   Compliance and monitoring
   
115.56   Insurance, indemnification and bonds or other surety
   
115.57   Enforcement and termination of franchise
   
115.58   Unauthorized reception
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or
is under common ownership with the grantee.
   BASIC CABLE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of local
signals required to be carried on the cable system, for which the grantee
charges the lowest monthly charge.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection of the video programming or other programming
service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment or other
communications equipment that is designed to provide cable service and other
service to subscribers.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or successor governmental entity
thereto.
   FRANCHISE. The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the
franchising authority, whether the authorization is designed as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, which
authorizes construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose of
offering cable service or other service to subscribers.
   FRANCHISE AUTHORITY. The City of Tell City, Indiana or the lawful successor,
transferee or assignee thereof.
   GRANTEE. A person granted a franchise by the franchising authority.
   GROSS REVENUES. The monthly cable service revenues received by the grantee
from subscribers of the cable system; provided, however, that GROSS REVENUES
shall not include revenues received from any national advertising carried on
the cable system, or those specifically excluded by Section 622(g)(2) of the
Cable Act, as the same existed as of the effective date of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust
corporation, or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-of-way,
including public utility easements, dedicated utility strips or rights-of-way
dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or permanent fixtures or
improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the franchise authority
in the service area, which shall entitle the franchise authority and the
grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing
and maintaining the cable system. PUBLIC WAY shall also mean any easement now
or hereafter held by the franchise authority within the service area for the
purpose of public travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for
compatible uses, and shall include other easements or rights-of-way as shall
within their proper use and meaning entitle the franchise authority and the
grantee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or transmitting cable
service or other service over poles, wire, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, compliances, attachments and other property as
may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to the cable system.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the franchising authority,
and shall include any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means
ordained or added from the date of this chapter.
   SERVICE TIER. A category of cable service or other services, provided by the
grantee and for which a separate charge is made by the grantee.
   SUBSCRIBER. A person or user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable
services or other service therefrom with the grantee's express permission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.02 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The following documents shall be incorporated herein by this reference, and
in the case of a conflict or ambiguity between them, the document of latest
date shall govern:
   (A)   Any proposal submitted by the grantee pursuant to a franchise renewal
procedure, as amended and supplemented during the franchise renewal negotiation
process;
   (B)   Any enabling ordinance in existence as of the date hereof; and
   (C)   Any franchise agreement between the grantee and franchising authority
reflecting the renewal of the franchise, if any.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.03 PREEMPTION.
   If the FCC or any other federal or state body or agency shall now or
hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
franchise, then to the extent the jurisdiction shall preempt and supersede or
preclude the exercise of the like jurisdiction by the franchising authority,
the jurisdiction of the franchising authority shall cease and no longer exist.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.04 ACTIONS OF FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.
   In any action by the franchising authority or representative thereof
mandated or permitted under the terms hereof, the party shall act in a
reasonable, expeditious and timely manner. Furthermore, in any instance where
approval or consent is required under the terms hereof, the approval or consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.05 NOTICE.
   Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or
response to be served upon the franchising authority or the grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, at a post
office or branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal Service. The
notices or responses to the franchising authority shall be addressed as
follows: City of Tell City, Tell City, Indiana 47586. The notices or responses
to the grantee shall be addressed to the grantee’s place of business. The
franchising authority and the grantee may designate any other address or
addresses from time to time by giving notice to the other.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
FRANCHISE TERMS; STANDARDS OF SERVICE
§ 115.15 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The city hereby grants to the grantee a nonexclusive franchise which
authorizes the grantee to construct and operate a cable system and offer cable
service and other services in, along, among, upon, across, above, over, under
or in any manner connected with public ways within the service area and for
that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct,
maintain or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across or along any public way
and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, any poles, wire, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   (B)   The franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be for an initial
term of ten years from the effective date of the franchise, as set forth in
division (C) below, unless otherwise lawfully terminated in accordance with the
terms of this chapter. At the end of the initial ten-year period, the franchise
shall be renewed for an additional five years after due public notice and in
compliance with Section 626 of the Cable Act.
   (C)   The grantee shall file a written acceptance of the franchise granted
pursuant hereto with the City Clerk-Treasurer or other appropriate official or
agency of the franchising authority within 60 days after the passage and final
adoption of this chapter. The franchising authority shall notify the grantee of
the date that the chapter is finally passed and adopted, as well as, the date
by which a written acceptance is required to be filed. The effective date of
this chapter shall be the date the grantee delivers its written acceptance, as
required herein.
   (D)   In the event the franchising authority enters into a franchise,
permit, license, authorization or other agreement of any kind with any other
person or entity other than the grantee for the purpose of constructing or
operating a cable system or providing cable service to any part of the
franchise area which contains terms more favorable to the person or entity in
any regard than similar provisions of this chapter, then this chapter shall be
deemed amended as of the effective date of the other franchise, permit, license
authorization or other agreement, so as to give the grantee the benefit of the
more favorable terms.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.16 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, other lines and
equipment installed or erected by the grantee pursuant to the terms hereof
shall be located so as to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use
of public ways and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who own property that adjoins any of the public ways.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.17 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   If during the course of the grantee's construction, operation or maintenance
of the cable system there occurs a disturbance of any public way by the
grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and restore the public way to a
condition reasonably comparable to the condition of the public way existing
immediately prior to the disturbance.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.18 RELOCATION.
   (A)   Upon its receipt of reasonable advance notice, not to be less than two
business days, the grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect, relocate in the public way or remove from the public
way any property of the grantee when lawfully required by the franchising
authority by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street abandonment,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, gas or water pipes, or any other type of
structures or improvements by the franchising authority; however, the grantee
shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its property if public
funds are available to any company using the street, easement or right-of-way
for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, and the funds
shall also be made available to the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the franchising authority, temporarily raise or lower
its wire to permit the moving of the building, provided:
      (1)   The expense of the temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by the person, including, if required by the grantee, making the payment in
advance; and
      (2)   The grantee is given not less than ten-business days' advance
written notice to arrange for the temporary wire changes. However, in the event
that the wires of the grantee which are required to be moved are not or have
not been installed in accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code, the
third party shall not be liable for the expense associated in moving the wire
or wires.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.19 TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees or other natural growth
overhanging any of its cable system in the service area so as to prevent
branches from coming in contact with the grantee's wire, cables or other
equipment. The grantee shall be permitted to charge persons who own, or are
responsible for, the trees or natural growth for the cost of the trimming,
provided that similar charges are assessed by and paid to the utilities or the
franchising authority for tree trimming. The grantee shall reasonably
compensate the franchising authority or property owner for any damages caused
by the trimming, or shall, in its sole discretion and at its own cost and
expense, reasonably replace all trees or shrubs damaged as a result of any
construction of the system undertaken by the grantee.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.20 USE OF THE GRANTEE'S EQUIPMENT BY FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.
   Subject to any applicable state or federal regulations or tariffs, the
franchising authority shall have the right to make additional use, for any
public purpose, of any poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively
by or for the grantee in any public way, provided that:
   (A)   The use by the franchising authority does not interfere with a current
or future use by the grantee;
   (B)   The franchising authority holds the grantee harmless against and from
all claims, demands, costs or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever
arising out of the use of the poles or conduits, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs; and
   (C)   At the grantee's sole discretion, the franchising authority may be
required either to pay a reasonable rental fee or otherwise reasonably
compensate the grantee for the use of the poles, conduits, or equipment;
provided, however, that the grantee agrees that the compensation or charge
shall not exceed those paid by it to public utilities pursuant to the
applicable pole attachment agreement, or other authorization relating to the
service area.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.21 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction, installation and maintenance of the cable system shall be
performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All cables, wires and other
equipment shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and
telephone lines. All work shall be performed in accordance with applicable
safety code or technical requirements, including, but not limited to, the
National Electrical Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards); National Safety
Code (National Bureau of Fire Underwriters); and applicable FCC or other
federal, state and local regulations. The cable system shall not endanger or
interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service area. In
particular, the grantee shall substantially comply with all local, state or
federal laws or regulations which govern cable plant signal leakage or
interference with communications media. Any antenna structure used in the cable
system shall comply with all construction, marking and lighting of antenna
structure requirements of the United States Department of Transportation
(Federal Aviation Administration) and the FCC. Nothing in this agreement shall
prohibit or regulate any pole attachment which the grantee would or has entered
into with any utility owned by the franchising authority.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.22 AERIAL AND UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION.
   In those areas of the service area where all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are underground, the grantee likewise
shall construct, operate and maintain all of its transmission and distribution
facilities underground, provided that the facilities are actually capable of
receiving the grantee's cable and other equipment without technical degradation
of the cable system's signal quality. In those areas of the service area where
the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective public utilities
providing telephone communications and electric services are both aerial and
underground, the grantee shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate
and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities, or any part
thereof, aerially or underground. Nothing contained in this section shall
require the grantee to construct, operate, and maintain underground any ground-
mounted appurtenances such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive
devices such as splitters and directional couplers, amplifiers, power supplies,
pedestals or other related equipment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this section, in the event that all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications, the grantee shall only be required to construct, operate and
maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities underground if it
is given reasonable notice and access to the public utility's facilities at the
time that the same are placed underground.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.23 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   The grantee shall provide adequate cable service to every potential
subscriber requesting the service located within the current city limits of
Tell City/Cannelton, Indiana, provided that the drop required is not over 250
feet from the main cable.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.24 SUBSCRIBER CHARGES FOR EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   No subscriber shall be refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual
circumstances, such as requirements for underground cable or where there is
more than 250 feet of distance from distribution cable to connection of service
to subscribers or a density of less than 15 subscribers per 1,320 cable bearing
strand feet of trunk or distribution cable, in order that existing subscribers
shall not be unfairly burdened, service may be made available on the basis of a
capital contribution in aid of construction including cost of material, labor
and easements.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.25 SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   The grantee shall provide without charge one outlet of basic service to each
governmental office building, fire station, police station, and public school
building that is passed by its cable system. The outlets of basic service shall
not be used to distribute or sell cable services in or throughout the
buildings; nor shall the outlets be located in common or public areas open to
the public. Users of the outlets shall hold the grantee harmless from any and
all liability or claims arising out of their use of the outlets, including, but
not limited to, those arising from copyright liability. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary set forth in this section, the grantee shall not be
required to provide an outlet to the buildings where the drop line from the
feeder cable to the buildings or premises exceeds 45.75 cable meters (150 cable
feet), unless it is technically feasible and if it will not adversely affect
the operation, financial condition or market development of the cable system to
do so, or unless the appropriate governmental entity agrees to pay the
incremental cost of the drop line in excess of 150 cable feet. In the event
that additional outlets of basic service are provided to the buildings, the
building owner shall pay the usual installation and service fees associated
therewith.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.26 EMERGENCY OVERRIDE.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of
the franchising authority, make available its facilities for the franchising
authority to provide emergency information and instructions during the
emergency or disaster period. The franchising authority shall hold the grantee,
its agents, employees, officers, and assigns hereunder harmless from any claims
arising out of the emergency use of its facilities by the franchising
authority, including, but not limited to, reasonable attoneys' fees and costs.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
REGULATION BY FRANCHISE AUTHORITY
§ 115.40 FRANCHISE FEES.
   The grantee shall pay to the franchising authority a franchise fee equal to
5% of gross revenues received by the grantee from the operation of the cable
system. Franchise fee payments due to the franchising authority under this
section shall be computed semi-annually, for the purpose of the franchise fee
payment computation the applicable accounting period shall be a calendar year,
unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the franchising authority and the
grantee. The semi-annual franchise fee payments shall be due and payable 90
days after the close of the preceding six months. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a brief report showing the basis for the computation. In no
event shall the franchise fee payments required to be paid by the grantee
exceed 5% of gross revenues received by the grantee in any 12-month period.
However, in the event that state or federal law would authorize the franchising
authority to receive a franchise fee in excess of 5% of the grantee's gross
revenues, the franchising authority may request an increase in the franchise
fee not to exceed any statutory restrictions.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.41 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The city will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the
basic service rates and charges of the grantee and any other cable television
system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent
provisions in the franchise.
   (B)   In connection with the regulation referred to in division (A) above,
the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of
interested parties.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to execute on behalf of
the city and file with the FCC any certification forms or other instruments as
are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to
enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. 743, passed 11-1-1993)
§ 115.42 RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchising authority and the grantee agree that any proceedings
undertaken by the franchising authority that relate to the renewal of the
grantee's franchise shall be governed by and comply with the provisions of
Section 626 of the Cable Act, as the same existed as of the effective date of
the Cable Act, unless the procedures and substantive protections set forth
therein shall be deemed to be preempted and superseded by the provisions of any
subsequent provision of federal or state law.
   (B)   In addition to the procedures set forth in Section 626(a) of the Cable
Act, the franchising authority agrees to notify the grantee of its preliminary
assessments regarding the identity of future cable related community needs and
interests, as well as the past performance of the grantee under the then
current franchise terms. The franchising authority further agrees that the
preliminary assessment shall be provided to the grantee prior to the time that
the four-month period referred to in Subsection (c) of Section 626 is
considered to begin. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this
section, the grantee and franchising authority agree that at any time during
the term of the then current franchise, while affording the public appropriate
notice and opportunity to comment, the franchising authority and the grantee
may agree to undertake and finalize negotiations regarding renewal of the then
current franchise, and the franchising authority may grant a renewal thereof.
The grantee and the franchising authority consider the terms set forth in this
section to be consistent with the express provisions of Section 626 of the
Cable Act. Section 626 of the Cable Act, as the same existed as of the
effective date of the Cable Act, is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.43 CONDITIONS OF SALE.
   (A)   If a renewal of the grantee's franchise is denied and the franchising
authority either acquires ownership of the cable system or by its actions
effects a transfer of ownership of the cable system to another party, the
acquisition or transfer shall be at a fair market value, determined on the
basis of the cable system valued as a going concern, but with no value
allocated to the franchise itself.
   (B)   If the grantee's franchise is revoked for cause and the franchising
authority acquires ownership of the cable system or by its actions effects a
transfer of ownership of the cable system to another person, the acquisition or
transfer shall be at an equitable price. However, in the event the franchising
authority revoked the grantee's franchise and subsequently award a cable
franchise to another person, the action by the franchising authority shall not
be deemed as an act effecting a transfer or acquisition of the cable system.
The grantee and franchising authority agree that in the case of a revocation,
at the grantee's request, which shall be made in its sole discretion, The
grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to effectuate a transfer of its
cable system to a qualified third party at fair market value, determined on the
basis of the cable system valued as an ongoing concern. The franchising
authority further agrees that during this period of time it shall authorize the
grantee to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its prior franchise;
however, in no event shall the authorization exceed a period of time greater
than six months from the effective date of the revocation. If, at the end of
the time, the grantee is unsuccessful in procuring a qualified transferee or
assignee of its cable system which is reasonably acceptable to the franchising
authority, the grantee and franchising authority may avail themselves of any
rights they may have pursuant to federal or state law; it being further agreed
that the grantee's continued operation of its cable system during the six-month
period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment of, any rights
of either the franchising authority or the grantee. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth in this section, neither the franchising authority nor
the grantee shall be required to violate federal or state law.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.44 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantee's right, title or interest in the franchise shall not be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise encumbered, other than to an affiliate,
without the prior consent of the franchising authority, the consent not to be
unreasonably withheld. No consent shall be required, however, for a transfer in
trust, by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights,
title or interest of the grantee in the franchise or cable system in order to
secure indebtedness.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 115.55 COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING.
   (A)   The grantee agrees that the franchising authority may review any of
its books and records associated with its Tell City system as are reasonably
necessary to monitor compliance with the terms of this chapter. The records
shall include, but shall not be limited to, any public records required to be
kept by the grantee pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, the grantee shall
not be required to disclose information which it reasonably deems to be
proprietary or confidential, and only to disclose this information to
employees, representatives, and agents thereof that have a need to know, or in
order to enforce the provisions hereof.
   (B)   At any time during this franchise, the franchising authority may on
its own initiative, and shall at the request of the grantee, schedule a public
meeting for the purpose of identifying the cable related community needs and
interests and reviewing the performance of the grantee under the franchise. The
franchising authority shall notify the grantee of the time and place of the
meeting, and provide afforded appropriate notice and opportunity for comment.
Within four months of the meeting, the franchising authority shall provide the
grantee with a written copy of its findings.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.56 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION AND BONDS OR OTHER SURETY.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost
and expense during the term of the franchise, General Comprehensive Liability
Insurance in the amount of $300,000 for bodily injuries, including accidental
death, to any one person, and to the same limit for each person in an amount
not less than $5,000,000 on account of any one occurrence, and property damage
liability insurance in an amount not less than $5,000,000 resulting from any
one occurrence. The insurance shall designate the franchising authority as an
additional named insured. The insurance shall be noncancellable, except upon
sixty-days' prior written notice to the franchising authority.
   (B)   The grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless and defend the
franchising authority and its officers, boards and employees from and against
any liability for damages and for any liability or claims resulting from
property damage or bodily injury, including accidental death, which arise out
of the grantee's construction, operation or maintenance of its cable system,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.
   (C)   Except as expressly provided herein, the grantee shall not be required
to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a condition of being awarded the
franchise or continuing its existence. The franchising authority acknowledges
that the legal financial and technical qualifications of the grantee are
sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of the franchise and the
enforcement thereof. The grantee and franchising authority recognize that the
costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately be borne by the
subscribers in the form of increased rates for cable services. In order to
minimize these costs, the franchising authority agrees to require bonds and
other surety only in amounts and during times as there is a reasonably
demonstrated need therefore. The franchise authority agrees that in no event,
however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in an aggregate amount
greater than $10,000, conditioned upon the substantial performance of the
material terms, covenants, and conditions of the franchise. Initially, no bond
or other surety will be required. In the event that one is required in the
future, the franchising authority agrees to give the grantee at least 60-days'
prior notice thereof stating the exact reason for the requirement. The reasons
must demonstrate a change in the grantee's legal, financial or technical
qualifications which would materially prohibit or impair its ability to comply
with the terms of the franchise or afford compliance therewith.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.57 ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   In the event that the franchising authority believes that the grantee
has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it shall notify the grantee
of the exact nature of the alleged non-compliance.
   (B)   The grantee shall have 30 days from receipt of the notice described in
division (A) above to respond to the franchising authority contesting the
assertion of noncompliance, or to cure the default or, in the event that, by
the nature of default, the default cannot be cured within the 30-day period,
initiate reasonable steps to remedy the default and notify the franchising
authority of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be
completed.
   (C)   In the event that the grantee fails to respond to the notice described
in division (A) above pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (B)
above, or in the event that the alleged default is not remedied within 45 days
after the grantee is notified of the alleged default pursuant to division (A)
above, the franchising authority shall schedule a public meeting to investigate
the default. The public meeting shall be held at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the franchising authority so as to provide the grantee at least
five-business days' notice. The franchising authority shall notify the grantee
of the time and place of the meeting and provide the grantee with an
opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Subject to applicable federal and state law, the franchising
authority, after holding the meeting, determinates that the grantee is in
default of any provisions of the franchise, the franchising authority may:
      (1)   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under this
franchise, if any, including, without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided, however, that the foreclosure shall only be in a manner and in an
amount as the franchising authority reasonably determines is necessary to
remedy the default;
      (2)   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief;
      (3)   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked; and/or
      (4)   Seek specific performance of any provision which reasonably lends
itself to the remedy, as an alternative to damages.
   (E)   The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply
promptly with any provision of the franchise by reason of any failure of the
franchising authority to promptly enforce compliance of any provision of this
franchise.
   (F)   The grantee shall not be held in default or noncompliance with the
provisions of the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating
thereto, where the noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by strikes,
acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably beyond its ability to
control.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 115.58 UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION.
   In addition to those criminal and civil remedies provided by state and
federal law, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm or corporation to
create or make use of any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of the
cable system without the express consent of the grantee. Further, without the
express consent of the grantee, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to
tamper with, remove or injure any property, equipment or part of the cable
system or any means of receiving cable service or other services provided
thereto. Subject to applicable federal or state law, the franchising authority
shall incorporate into its criminal code, if not presently a part thereof,
criminal misdemeanor law which will enforce the intent of this section.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-1-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
116.01   Issuance of liquor retailers’ permits
§ 116.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILERS’ PERMITS.
   The city hereby consents to and authorizes the issuance of liquor retailers'
permits to applicants otherwise duly qualified under the Act of the 1935 State
General Assembly entitled An Act Concerning Alcohol and Alcoholic Beverages,
Liquids and Substances, and to Promote Temperance, Repealing Laws and Parts of
Laws, and Declaring an Emergency, approved March 11, 1935, in respect to
premises located within the city.
(`81 Code, § 15-12) (Ord. 226, passed 3-13-1945)
CHAPTER 117: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose of chapter
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Permit required
   
117.04   Application
   
117.05   Investigation of applicant
   
117.06   Permit fees
   
117.07   Insurance and indemnity
   
117.08   Location restrictions
   
117.09   Prohibited hours
   
117.10   Standard of conduct
   
117.11   Safety requirements
   
117.12   Suspension; revocation; penalties
   
117.13   Right to appeal
   
117.14   Exemptions
§ 117.01 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the activities of individuals,
firms, or corporations engaging in the practice of mobile food sales to sustain
a safe and consistent standard of operation and to promote public health,
safety, and welfare of the City of Tell City, Indiana and the citizens and
inhabitants thereof.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number:
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Tell City,
Indiana.
   CITY. The City of Tell City, Indiana.
   DIRECTOR. The appropriate personnel determined by officials of the City of
Tell City, Indiana.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, drink
or ingredient used or intended for the use or for sale in whole or in part for
human consumption.
   FOOD CATERER. A person or company hired and paid to provide and serve food,
usually for a large group and at a location separate from where the food is
prepared. A food caterer does not include someone preparing and selling food to
individuals.
   FOOD VENDING PUSHCART. Any box or container with wheels that is not
propelled or moved by an engine and was designed and manufactured specifically
for the purpose of selling food.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A self-contained food establishment that is on wheels,
self-propelled or moved by an engine, weighs no more than 16,000 pounds, and
for which the primary purpose of the vehicle is the sale and/or production of
food.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR ("VENDOR"). Includes any individual person, firm, or
corporation who operates mobile food vending pushcarts and/or mobile food
vehicles.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT ("PERMIT"). A permit which has been issued
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event so designated by the Board of Public Works and
Safety of the City of Tell City, Indiana.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a mobile food vendor to engage in their
respective businesses within the corporate limits of the City of Tell City,
Indiana, without obtaining a mobile food vendor permit in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The obtaining of a permit by an employer or
principal shall in no way relieve any employee or agent of that employer or
principal of their legal obligation to obtain a permit, if their activity falls
within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   A mobile food vendor shall obtain a separate permit for each mobile
food vehicle and/or food vending pushcart they wish to operate. All permits
issued under the authority of this chapter shall not be transferable.
   (C)   If any permit holder desires to continue in business after the
expiration of a permit, a new permit must be obtained as required under this
chapter.
   (D)   Each mobile food vendor must obtain all necessary and required
licenses prior to applying for the city permit and must comply with all
regulations established by the Perry County Health Department and/or other
regulatory bodies.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve a mobile food vendor
from obtaining other required licenses and/or permits from other regulatory
bodies.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.04 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for any mobile food vendor permit under this chapter must file a
written sworn application signed by the applicant with the Clerk-Treasurer
showing at minimum the following information:
   (A)   The name, full address, telephone number, and email (if applicable) of
the mobile food vending business, business owner, and business operator;
   (B)   The intended locations of operation of the mobile food vendor;
   (C)   The duration of the permit being sought;
   (D)   The intended hours of operation of the mobile food vendor;
   (E)   Proof of Perry County Health Permit;
   (F)   Proof of insurance, if operating on property owned and maintained by
the city, in compliance with the city minimum insurance requirements;
   (G)   A letter of approval from the Board of Public Works and Safety if
operating on city-owned property or a letter of approval from the Parks Board
if operating in a city park;
   (H)   Dated mobile food vendor's signature verifying that they shall abide
by the provisions of this chapter;
   (I)   Any mobile food vendor operating on a city street must be positioned
to serve patrons in such a manner that the serving window faces the sidewalk
and not the portion of the street traveled by motor vehicles;
   (J)   Mobile food vendors shall abide by all city and state traffic codes
and regulations.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 117.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Clerk-Treasurer of any application for a permit
under the provisions of this chapter, the Tell City Police Department may
investigate a mobile food vendor's criminal history as it deems necessary for
the protection of the public good and welfare.
   (B)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant's criminal history
and business responsibility are found to be such as to endanger or be
detrimental to the public and its good and welfare, the permit shall be denied
or, if issued, revoked by the Tell City Police Department.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 117.06 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee as follows:
      (1)   Forty dollars ($40) for a one month permit.
      (2)   One hundred eighty dollars ($180) for a six month permit.
      (3)   Two hundred forty dollars ($240) for a one year permit.
   (B)   A permit becomes active for a consecutive period of time on the day
that the permit is approved.
   (C)   In the event the permit is revoked, the city shall retain all funds.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued until the permit fee has been paid.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.07 INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Applicants operating on property owned and maintained by the city
shall provide a certificate of liability upon approval of the permit, which
shall insure the applicant and name the City of Tell City, Indiana, as
additional insured against the following liabilities and in the following
amounts relative to such activity:
      (1)   General liability: $1,000,000;
      (2)   Automotive liability: $1,000,000; and
      (3)   Proof of worker’s compensation.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors who are operating a food vending pushcart are
exempt from providing proof of automotive liability insurance. Mobile food
vendors who are self-employed and have no additional employees are exempt from
providing proof of workers compensation insurance.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.08 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall be permitted to operate pursuant to the
approved permission by the Board of Public Works and Safety or Parks Board or
in accordance with § 117.04(E);
   (B)   Mobile food vendors may make special requests to the Board to operate
on other locations owned and maintained by the City of Tell City, Indiana.
   (C)   The city shall have the authority to designate other locations of
permitted operation for special events.
   (D)   With written consent of the property owners, vendors may operate on
private property that is in a business or industrial zone.
   (E)   When a vendor seeks to operate in a right-of-way, the vendor shall not
impede the use of a city street, alleyway, and/or sidewalk.
   (F)   No mobile food vendor shall operate within 100 feet of a special
event, unless granted approval by the coordinator of the special event or the
Board.
   (G)   No mobile food vendor shall locate themselves in an area that
significantly impedes or prevents the use of any City of Tell City, Indiana,
property, or which would endanger the safety and/or property of the public.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 117.09 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from operating or parking on any
property owned and maintained by the City of Tell City, Indiana, between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors may make special requests to the Board to operate
during prohibited hours.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.10 STANDARD OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall conduct themselves at all times in an
orderly and lawful manner.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from using a device or machine to
produce unreasonable amounts of sound or light (such as, but not limited to,
bull horns, strobe lights, and neon signs).
   (C)   Mobile food vendors are required to obey the commands of the law
enforcement and code enforcement officials.
   (D)   No mobile food vendor shall provide tables, seating, or any other
dining arrangement.
   (E)   No mobile food vendor shall sell or otherwise provide alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   Mobile food vendors must provide waste receptacles that are sufficient
in size for both customer and employee waste.
   (G)   Mobile food vendors are responsible for the disposal of waste that is
generated by the use of their waste receptacles and shall not dispose of their
waste in waste receptacles owned and maintained by the city.
   (H)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from disposing of any food, liquid,
or other waste materials in sanitary and/or storm water sewers.
   (I)   Mobile food vendors shall not utilize any city or private electrical
outlets while in operation. All electrical needs must be self-generated.
   (J)   Mobile food vendors operating electrical equipment are required to use
heavy-duty extension cords.
   (K)   Mobile food vendors may operate a generator that produces no more than
75 decibels.
   (L)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of ten feet away from
nearby buildings or other food vending pushcarts and/or mobile food vehicles.
   (M)   Mobile food vehicles operating deep frying appliances must be parked a
minimum of 20 feet away from nearby buildings or other food vending pushcarts
and/or mobile food vehicles.
   (N)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of 100 feet from the
entrance of a restaurant or from an outdoor dining area.
   (O)   Mobile food vendors must be parked a minimum of 15 feet from a fire
hydrant.
   (P)   Mobile food vendors are prohibited from smoking within eight feet of
their mobile food vehicle or food vending pushcart.
   (Q)   No food vending pushcart or mobile food vehicle shall operate with a
drive thru.
   (R)   Mobile food vendors must display all permits at all times while in
operation.
   (S)   Food vending pushcarts and mobile food vehicles may be inspected by a
Code Enforcement Officer of the city when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.11 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile food vehicles must have a 2A-10BC rated fire extinguisher.
   (B)   Mobile food vehicles operating deep fryer appliances must have a Class
K rated fire extinguisher.
   (C)   Each fire extinguisher provided by a mobile food vendor shall have a
label or tag securely attached that indicates the last time it was serviced.
The label or tag must state the month the service took place and the
individual, firm, or corporation responsible for servicing it. All fire
extinguishers must have been serviced and validated within the last 12 months.
   (D)   Mobile food vehicles must have all fire extinguishers mounted at a
minimum of three feet in height and a maximum of five feet in height.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.12 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provision of this chapter may be revoked by
appropriately designated city officials after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for the permit.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
the business for which the permit is issued.
      (3)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
       (4)   Conducting the business for which the permit is issued in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given, in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permit holder at their last known address, at least five days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
   (C)   (1)   Penalties. 
         (a)   Any individual, firm, or corporation convicted of a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not less than the
applicable amount set forth below:
            1.   First offense:      $ 25.
            2.   Second offense:   $100.
            3.   Third offense:   $300.
            4.   Fourth offense:   $600.
         (b)   Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The City of Tell City, Indiana, shall also have
the right to recover the costs of administering this offense, including but not
limited to, filing fees and attorney fees. If the violation includes a failure
to obtain a permit under this section, said penalty shall also include a permit
fee equal to the appropriate amount established under §
117.06(A).
      (2)   Enforcement. Appropriate city officials shall enforce this chapter.
Upon determination by said officials that there exists an emergency and that
for the protection of the public welfare any permit should be immediately
suspended, the appropriate officials may forthwith suspend the permit pending
hearing as provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   Administrative liability. No officer, agent, or employee of the
City of Tell City, Indiana, shall render themselves personally liable for any
damage that may occur to persons or property, as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of their duties under this chapter. Any suit
brought against any officer, agent, or employee of the City of Tell City,
Indiana, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of their
duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the City Attorney until the
final determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.13 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any individual, firm, or corporation aggrieved by a decision in regard to
the denial or revocation of a permit as provided for herein shall have the
right to appeal to the Board. Appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board,
within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to the last known
address of the individual, firm, or corporation, a written statement, setting
forth the grounds for the appeal. The Board shall set the time and place for a
hearing on the appeal and notice of the hearing shall be given to the
individual, firm, or corporation in the manner provided for notice of hearing
on revocation. The order of the Board on the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 117.14 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Ice cream trucks, caterers, food delivery drivers, and other food
service vehicles that do not park or locate in any one place for longer than
one hour are exempt from the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   Lemonade stands, bake sales, and other stands operated by children for
the purpose of selling homemade foods are exempt from the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   (C)   Indiana not-for-profit fraternal organizations, Indiana not-for-profit
organizations that are tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code §501(c)(3),
Indiana not-for-profit veteran's organizations, and persons 17 and under
selling merchandise, services, or seeking donations on behalf of a school,
church, sports, or charitable or scouting organization are exempt from the
jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Ord. 1202, passed 5-15-2023; Am. Ord. 1207, passed 7-3-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Spitting in public places prohibited
   
130.02   Storage, sale and use fireworks prohibited
   
130.03   Trespassing on public property prohibited
   
130.04   Posting bills
   
130.05   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property
prohibited
   
130.06   Reserved
   
130.07   Discharge of paintball, air and pellet guns restricted
   
130.08   Curfew for minors
§ 130.01 SPITTING IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit, eject or cast from the
mouth any saliva, spittle or other substance upon any sidewalk within the
corporate limits of the city, or upon the floor of any church, school, theater,
public hall, or other place of public gathering within the corporate limits of
the city.
   (B)   Any person convicted shall be fined and pay the costs of prosecution.
(`81 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 106, passed 2-11-1908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 STORAGE, SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall use, ignite or discharge fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City of Tell City, except during the following times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on June 29, June 30,
July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 through 11:00 a.m.
on January 1.
   (B)   No person shall use, ignite or discharge fireworks on any public
street or in any public park, without the prior approval by the Board of Public
Works and Safety, or in any public area or any city owned property within the
corporate limits of the City of Tell City at any time.
   (C)   No person shall use, ignite or discharge fireworks in a manner which
causes them to land upon the property owned or occupied by another person.
   (D)   Residents are permitted to use, ignite or discharge fireworks only on
their own property or with permission of the property owner. The fireworks must
land on the property from which they were used, ignited, or discharged.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the fire chief, or his designee,
from preventing the use of fireworks due to weather or any other safety
concerns.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of no more
than $250 per incident, as well as any other penalty provided by the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Tell City.
(`81 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. 342, passed 5-12-1959; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 10-2-
2017; Am. Ord. 1134, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 TRESPASSING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   Whoever willfully, mischievously, maliciously, or whoever, after receiving
notice, either directly or indirectly, by notices posted upon the grounds, or
by railing, fence or other obstruction placed thereon, indicating that
occupancy or travel is not desired by the custodian or the authority in charge,
or by any other form of notice, shall enter upon the lawn or grounds of the
depot park, or the lawn or grounds of the City Hall, or of any other public
institution or grounds of the city at a point other than at the walks prepared
and maintained for public use, shall be guilty of a trespass, and on conviction
shall be fined.
(`81 Code, § 15-6) (Ord. 153, passed 4-25-1916) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 POSTING BILLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any
cards, posters, hand bills, placards, signs or any other type of personal
property to any utility poles owned or leased by the city or any traffic signs
owned or leased by the city, except that the city and its employees, agents and
officers are hereby exempt from the provisions of this section, but only upon a
written determination by the Board of Public Works and Safety and the Common
Council that it is necessary for the city to post any cards, posters, hand
bills, placards, signs or any other type of personal property to utility poles,
traffic signs and traffic posts owned or leased by the city.
(Ord. 720, passed 1-4-1993)
   (B)    Any person, firm, or corporation found to have violated this section
shall have a judgment entered against it, and violation of this section shall
be deemed a Class A Violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation against whom a judgment is entered in
violation of this section shall be liable for reasonable attorney fees and
expenses incurred by the city in the prosecution of this chapter and shall pay
an ordinance violation cost fee of $50 to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 645, passed 6-20-1988)
§ 130.05 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is a condition for any host or sponsor of any proposed event
covered by the exception to the prohibition of alcohol in public parks, to
provide the city, through its Mayor's office, with a Certificate of Liability
Insurance Coverage showing that the host or sponsor of such event has liability
insurance coverage for such event with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per
occurrence, which names the city as an insured party.
   (B)   It is a further condition that the licensee of the Indiana Alcoholic
Beverage Commission which will serve wine or beer at the aforesaid event, to
provide the city, through its Mayor's office, with a Certificate of Liability
Insurance Coverage showing that the licensee of such event has liability
insurance coverage for such event with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per
occurrence, which names the city as an insured party.
   (C)   Tell City Regional Arts and Perry County Quality of Life Committee are
hereby authorized to sponsor a wine or beer garden in City Hall on such dates
as may be approved by the Tell City Board of Public Works and Safety, with wine
or beer being provided and served by duly approved licensee from the Indiana
Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
(`81 Code, § 15-14) (Ord. 494, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 1039, passed 10-4-
2010; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 1158, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 130.06 RESERVED
§ 130.07 DISCHARGE OF PAINTBALL, AIR AND PELLET GUNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN. Any gun or device, by whatever name known, which is designed to
expel or propel air by the action of compressed air or gas, but does not mean a
firearm.
      PAINTBALL GUN.  Any gun or device, by whatever name known, which is
designed to expel or propel a paintball by the action of compressed air or gas,
but does not mean a firearm.
      PELLET GUN. Any gun or device, by whatever name known, which is designed
to expel or propel a pellet by the action of compressed air or gas, but does
not mean a firearm.
   (B)   No person, regardless of age, shall discharge a paintball gun, pellet
gun or air gun so that by reason of discharge it injures anyone or damages any
property, both real and personal, of anyone within the city.
(Ord. 875, passed 1-7-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHILD. Any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place available to all or a certain segment of the public
including, but not limited to, any place where the public is invited and is
free to go upon special or implied invitation. It is specifically intended that
PUBLIC PLACE shall include the interior of a vehicle if the vehicle is located
at a public place.
   (B)   It is a violation of this section for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday of each
week;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
of each week; and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
of each week.
   (C)   It is a violation of this section for a child under 15 years of age to
be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified to accompany him or her by his or
her parent, guardian or custodian; and/or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event; and/or
         (d)   An expressive or associational activity protected by either
federal or state law, including, but not limited to, the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this section for a parent, guardian or
custodian to permit, suffer or allow a child under his or her care or custody
to violate this section. It shall be a defense for any parent, guardian or
custodian that another person was exercising visitation, pursuant to court
order, during the time period that the violation occurred.
   (F)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to fine, and the
city shall be entitled to its reasonable attorney fees and other legal expenses
incurred in enforcing this section.
(Ord. 850, passed 9-5-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND DEVELOPMENT
         
APPENDIX A:  CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS
         
APPENDIX B: PROOF OF AGREEMENT UTILITIES
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Administrative Regulations
   
150.001   Purpose and intent
   
150.002   Establishment of control; recording of plats and control of
subdivision development
   
150.003   Definitions
   
150.004   Duties and authority of the Zoning Administrator
   
150.005   Reference to other statutes and regulations
   
150.006   Conflict with other statutes
   
150.007   Severability
   
150.008   Amendment and replacement
Application for Subdivision Approval
   
150.020   Pre-application for subdivision approval
   
150.021   Zoning Administrator’s preliminary review
   
150.022   Formal application
   
150.023   Filing fee
   
150.024   Zoning Administrator’s formal review
Preliminary Plats and Primary Approval
   
150.035   Preliminary plat approval
   
150.036   Notification of decision
   
150.037   Effective term of primary approval
   
150.038   Preliminary plat; required format
   
150.039   Preliminary plat; required information for primary approval
Final Plats and Secondary Approval
   
150.050   Secondary approvals
   
150.051   Recording of approved plat
   
150.052   Failure to record plat
   
150.053   Phasing of construction
   
150.054   Secondary approval prior to completion of improvements
   
150.055   Determination of compliance with primary approval
   
150.056   Evidence of compliance with primary approval
   
150.057   Final plat; required format
   
150.058   Final plat; required information
Development Plans
   
150.065   Applicability
   
150.066   Development standards
   
150.067   Subdivision and development plans required
   
150.068   Certification of design
   
150.069   Development and subdivision plan approval
   
150.070   Exempt subdivisions of land
   
150.071   Development plan standards
   
150.072   Compliance with comprehensive plan, subdivision and zoning provisions
   
150.073   Conditions of the land
   
150.074   Public sites
   
150.075   Estimate of cost of construction
   
150.076   Variance and modification of development plan
   
150.077   Appeals to the Plan Commission
   
150.078   Survey monuments
   
150.079   Blocks
   
150.080   Lots and streets
   
150.081   Alleys
   
150.082   Utility easements
Streets, Alleys and Rights-of-Way
   
150.095   Applicability
   
150.096   General design considerations
   
150.097   Street design standards
   
150.098   Alternate minimum sight distance
   
150.099   Extension of streets
   
150.100   Alternate minimum standards for intersections
   
150.101   Alternate minimum standards for longitudinal grading
   
150.102   Alternate minimum standards for transverse slopes
   
150.103   Alternate minimum radii of curvature on the centerline
   
150.104   Alternate minimum right-of-way width
   
150.105   One-half rights-of-way for streets and alleys
   
150.106   Alternate minimum pavement width
   
150.107   Alternate minimum standards for materials and minimum paving depth
   
150.108   Curb and gutter
   
150.109   Alternate minimum standards for shoulders
   
150.110   Sidewalks
   
150.111   Signs
Wastewater Service
   
150.125   Wastewater treatment/sanitary sewer standards
   
150.126   Acceptance of improvements
   
150.127   Wastewater treatment options
Water Service and Fire Protection Service
   
150.135   Potable water supply system standards
   
150.136   Acceptance of improvements
   
150.137   Individual wells
   
150.138   Separation of well water and potable water
Fire Protection Service on Potable Water Systems
   
150.145   Fire hydrants
Electric, Natural Gas and Communications Services
   
150.150   Electric service
   
150.151   Natural gas and communications services
Fire Suppression Water Systems (Not Potable Water)
   
150.160   Non-potable water systems for fire suppression
Flood Hazard and Storm Water Mitigation
   
150.170   Flood hazard regulations
   
150.171   Storm water regulations
   
150.172   Storm water drainage systems on site
   
150.173   Provisions for future development - storm water drainage
   
150.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Curb and Gutter Details
   
Appendix B: Proof of Agreement Utilities
ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
§ 150.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In agreement with Perry County, the City of Tell City finds that it is
in the best interest of the current and future citizens of Tell City to
exercise control of land use in that portion of Perry County lying outside the
municipal boundaries of the city, which jurisdiction is allowed by I.C. 36-7-
3 et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   The city of Tell City finds that it is in the best interest of the
current and future citizens of Tell City to exercise control of land use in all
of the territory within its jurisdiction including lands both within and
outside of its municipal boundaries.
   (C)   The City of Tell City Indiana hereby finds that it is in the best
interest of the current and future citizens of Tell City to establish control
over the recording and division of lands, the development of lands, the control
of land uses, the proper and legal description of said lands for the assessment
of taxes, the recording of property purchased or sold, and for the health,
welfare and enjoyment of properties by the current and future citizens of Tell
City; therefore, the city hereby establishes the entities, procedures.
standards and regulations contained herein, all of which shall comply with
principles set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-201 et seq.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL; RECORDING OF PLATS AND CONTROL OF
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Territorial jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the Tell City Advisory
Plan Commission in regard to this chapter shall include lands outside the city
limits for which Tell City has statutory jurisdiction, or for which Perry
County has relinquished control for the purposes of land use control.
   (B)   Enforcement authority. Tell City Advisory Plan Commission is the final
authority for approval of plats, re-plats, subdivisions of lands, and standards
of control for the development of lands within its jurisdiction in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-701.
   (C)   Subdivision control - platting or replatting of land without
development.  No plat of a subdivision of lands, or replat of lands previously
platted, which are located within the jurisdiction of the Tell City Plan
Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been approved by the Tell City
Advisory Plan Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing
on the plat by the President, and attested by the Secretary of the Commission.
Platting or replatting shall specifically include lands dedicated to public
service and all other lands except those specifically excluded herein. No plat
of land, or a subdivision of land, may be recorded until total compliance with
I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. has been established. The approval for platting or re-
platting of lands under division (B) above does not constitute approval for
development of a subdivision under division (D)(1) following, or compliance
with I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
   (D)   Subdivision control - platting or replatting of land with development
or development of land previously platted under I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and this
chapter or under any previous valid ordinance.
      (1)   No plat of a subdivision of lands, which are located within the
jurisdiction of the Tell City Plan Commission, shall be recorded until it shall
have been approved by the Tell City Plan Commission, and such approval shall
have been entered in writing on the plat by the President and Secretary of the
Commission. Platting or replatting shall specifically include lands dedicated
to public service and all other lands except those specifically excluded
herein. No plat of land, or a subdivision of land, may be recorded until
complete compliance with I.C. 36-7-3 et seq., or I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq. has
been established.
      (2)   No replat of lands or development of lands, previously platted
under I.C. 36-7-3 or which were platted and recorded, under laws in effect at
the time, shall be recorded until it shall have been approved by the Tell City
Plan Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in writing on the
plat by the President and attested by the Secretary of the Commission. Platting
or replatting shall specifically include lands dedicated to public service and
all other lands except those specifically excluded herein. No plat of land, or
a subdivision of land, may be recorded until total compliance with I.C. 36-7-
3 et seq., and I.C. 36-74-700 et seq. has been established.
      (3)   No development of a subdivision of land shall occur until the
Commission shall have determined that the petition for primary approval of the
subdivision plat qualifies for approval under the provisions of this chapter
and is in compliance with I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and/or I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
      (4)   (a)   This chapter applies to any division of land(s) which has one
or more of the following characteristics:
            1.   The division results in two or more contiguous lots or parcels
each of which have an area of less than five acres;
            2.   The division requires dedication of lands for public uses such
as roadways, alleys, public parks, lands set aside for construction of schools,
walkway, or easements for utilities;
            3.   The division results in lots or parcels of five or more acres
and which requires dedication of lands for public access for any reason.
         (b)   Provided however, for practical reasons certain exclusions
apply, in accordance with §
150.070 contained herein.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words used in
the present tense include the future tense. The term “shall” is always
mandatory. Definitions contained herein are specific to this chapter. Providing
that these definitions are in conflict with other ordinances then the meaning
(s) contained herein shall apply. Definitions contained in I.C. 36-7-1 shall
take precedence over the definitions contained herein.
   ADDITION. A group of lots, or contiguous parcels of land added, or sought to
be added, to a municipality. Or any action sought to develop a group of lots or
contiguous parcels to be added to a municipality in the future. This definition
also includes the definition of SUBDIVISION.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Land Use and Zoning Administrator of the City of Tell
City. The ADMINISTRATOR, if appointed, is a deputy of the Director of Planning
and Zoning. If no deputy is appointed ADMINISTRATOR means the Director of
Planning and Zoning, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare primarily designed to serve as access to the
side or rear of properties where principal frontage is on some other street.
Alleys may also serve as easements and access for utilities. Alleys generally
will not be approved for the development of future residential areas, unless
unusual circumstances require them.
   BLOCK.  A unit of property bounded by streets, or by street or railroad
rights-of-way, waterways, or other barriers. Blocks are required to have unique
block names, numbers or other designations for identification. Blocks must
comply with the requirements of the City Zoning Ordinance.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE.  Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other barrier.
   BUILDING SET BACK LINE, BUILDING LINE.  The line nearest the front of and
across a lot establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the
front line of buildings and structures and the front lot line.
   CITY. The City of Tell City, Indiana.
   COMMISSION.  The Tell City Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (MASTER PLAN). The complete plan, or any of its parts,
for the development of the city and its environs, prepared by the Commission
and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4. This chapter is part of, and a
supplement to, the Comprehensive Plan Code
Chapter 153.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  The Perry County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   COUNTY. Perry County, Indiana.
   COVENANT. A recorded agreement between buyer and seller of a piece of
property specifying what may or may not be done with the subject property.
Covenants approved by the Advisory Plan Commission, and recorded with the
County Recorder, run with the land and may not be abrogated without approval of
the Advisory Plan Commission. Covenants not approved by the Advisory Plan
Commission shall not be recorded and shall not run with the land. Covenants are
not valid if they violate federal, state, county or city laws, ordinances or
regulations.
   CROSS WALKWAY, CROSS WALK. A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is
reserved across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC (A COURT OR DEAD-END STREET). A short residential street having
one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a
vehicle turn-around.
   DEVELOP. To plat or replat land or to make a development; also to do any
grading or filling of land, whether un-developed or already subdivided, so as
to change the drainage or the flow of water, or to do any work upon or to the
land that is capable of future use as a subdivision or development of building
sites. To install buildings, public facilities, drainage facilities, utilities
or other facilities serving lots and blocks to be sold for use for any purpose.
Also means any substantial excavation of land other than for agricultural uses.
   DEVELOPER (OR SUB-DIVIDER).  Any person engaged in developing or improving
lands, or structures thereon, for use or occupancy.
   DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT. The Administrator of Zoning, the
Administrator of Building Codes, or other persons designated by the Common
Council to Administer the land use laws.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons, for one or more specified purposes.
Easements are usually defined for use by utilities for the construction,
operation and maintenance of utility infrastructure or system. An EASEMENT is a
right of use or right of access. An EASEMENT may be restrictive. A restrictive
easement must be defined on the recorded plat.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION.  The City of Tell City, Indiana, and the
contiguous unincorporated territory shown on a map, and/or an area described by
meets and bounds, which is filed with the Perry County Recorder.
   LEASE. To rent or to permit the possession of, or right of possession, or
right of use, for a consideration, of a lot, parcel, tract, land, or group of
lots, parcels, tracts, or lands, for a definite or indefinite period.
   LOT.  The smallest subdivision of land described in a plat recorded with the
Perry County Recorder and which complies with the requirements of I.C. 36-7-
3 et seq. or I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq. In determining lot area and boundary lines
no part thereof within the limits of a street, either existing or proposed,
shall be included. Lots are required to have unique numbers for purposes of
identification in accordance with I.C. 36-7-3-3(a)(3). Lots must comply with
the requirements of this chapter, and the City Zoning Ordinance.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts on two
streets.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  A road which parallels a major arterial street
providing access from abutting property and separated from the highway by a
common dividing strip, or by double frontage lots.
   MASTER PLAN - COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan or any of its parts, for
the development of the city and its environs (see COMPREHENSIVE PLAN).
   NO ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way across which
the access to the property is not permitted.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land, sought to be subdivided, to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide or develop the same under this chapter. The owner may
be separate from the developer but has joint and several responsibility to the
Commission for compliance with all land use ordinances and this chapter.
   PARCEL.  An ownership, lot plat, or part of an ownership, lot or plot, or
any designated group or lots or ownerships.
   PERFORMANCE BOND OR SURETY BOND. A personal or corporate surety agreement
between a developer or sub-divider, and such surety that may be approved, in
favor of a governmental body, governmental unit, or private entity,
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements, or other requirements of
this chapter, according to plan and specifications within the time prescribed
by the sub-divider’s agreement (also see PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AND SURETY).
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee, which may be accepted by a
governmental body or governmental unit, in lieu of a requirement that certain
improvements be made before the Commission approves the record plat, including
by way of illustrating but not limitation, performance bonds, escrow
agreements, deposit agreements, and other similar collateral or surety
arrangements approved as valid and enforceable by the Commission (also see
PERFORMANCE BOND AND SURETY).
   PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person. If the person is
other than a natural person then articles of incorporation, partnership,
association and the like will be required as proof of the right to petition.
Proof of power of attorney may be required of an individual acting on behalf of
the person.
   PETITIONER. The owner of the property which is the subject of a petition, or
other person qualified to appear for the owner. A developer, if the developer
is not the owner. If the petitioner is other than a natural person then a power
of attorney or other significant proof of the right to petition may be required
with, and at the time of, the petition.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAT. A map or chart and included pertinent information, accurately and
thoroughly describing the subdivision or re-subdivision of land, which is
intended to be filed for the permanent record.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. The initial approval granted by the Advisory Plan
Commission and which is sufficient approval for the Developer to initiate
improvements in accordance with the conditions ordered by the Plan Commission
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-702 et seq.  PRIMARY APPROVAL does not contain any
element of secondary approval.
   PRIMARY PLAT (PROVISIONAL PLAT). The map, and supporting information,
indicating the proposed layout and conditions, applying to the subdivision
which is presented to the Commission, for consideration and approval, in
accordance with state law and this chapter. Also see OVERALL PROVISIONAL PLAT.
   REPLAT. A subdivision of land or plat, the site of which has heretofore been
platted or subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any
part of a previously recorded subdivision or plat or a change in condition of a
parcel of land dedicated for use as a street or to other public service.
Certain transactions may, for practical reasons, be excluded herein.
   RECORD PLAT. A map, chart or drawing, in final form, along with supporting
information, showing the sub-divider’s plan of subdivision containing all
information or detail required by state law, and by this chapter, to be
presented to the Plan Commission for approval, and which if approved, may be
duly filed or recorded by the applicant in the Office of the Perry County
Recorder.
   SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL (SECONDARY APPROVAL). Follows Primary Approval. The
approval granted by the Advisory Plan Commission after all requirements of
Primary Approval have been met, inspected and certified, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
4-710. (See §
150.050)
   STREET OR THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way, other than an alley or place,
dedicated or otherwise legally established to the public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property. A street may be designated
as a highway, thoroughfare, park-way, boulevard, road, avenue, land, drive, or
other appropriate name, in compliance with the Thoroughfare Plan Ordinance Code
(old Chapter 34). A street may also be identified according to type of use, as
follows:
      (1)   STREET, ARTERIAL.  A street designated for large volumes of traffic
movement. Certain arterial streets should be classified as limited access
highways to which entrances and exits are provided only at controlled
intersections and access is denied to abutting properties. Arterial streets are
divided into two categories: primary and secondary.
      (2)   STREET, FEEDER (or COLLECTOR).  A street planned to facilitate the
collection of traffic from residential streets, and to provide circulation
within the neighborhood areas and for convenient ways for traffic to reach
arterial streets.
      (3)   STREET, RESIDENTIAL.  A street designated primarily to provide
access to abutting properties, usually residential. Certain residential streets
parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to abutting property and
ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial streets (also see CUL-DE-
SAC).
      (4)   Any other designation provided for in the Tell City Thoroughfare
Plan.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT. The construction, or re-construction, of a
street or alley to its full design standard and pavement thickness, commencing
at the sub-grade according to the specifications contained in, or referred to,
in this chapter of the Tell City Code. The placing of a new surface over an
existing paved or closed surface street or alley shall not be considered as an
improvement but as necessary maintenance.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance, at right angles to the centerline,
between the lines which delineate the right-of-way.
   SUB-DIVIDER. Any person or persons, firm or corporation engaged in
developing or improving a tract of land which complies with the definition of a
subdivision as defined in this chapter (also see DEVELOPER).
   SUBDIVISION (verb).  The act of division, or re-division, of any parcel of
land, separately described in a deed on record in the Office of the County
Recorder, into two or more contiguous parcels, sites or lots in accordance with
provisions contained in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION (noun). A contiguous group of parcels or lots, with integral
provisions for necessary infrastructure including but not limited to streets,
alleys, easements or lands set aside for future public uses all of which comply
with provisions contained in this chapter pursuant to I.C. 36-7-1-19.
   SURETY. A person, corporation or other entity that ensures or guarantees, by
becoming liable for an obligation, that any debt or obligation under this
chapter will be paid, performed, or otherwise liquidate the liability for the
obligation. (Also see PERFORMANCE BOND AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE).
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted,
which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the location,
alignment, dimensions, identification, and classification of existing and
proposed streets, highways, and other thoroughfares; specifically,
Chapter 34, as amended or succeeded.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A staff position of the Advisory Plan Commission whose
duties include the administration of all matters pertaining to land use and
planning. (Also See ADMINISTRATOR).
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The part of the Comprehensive (Master) Plan, whether
current or hereafter amended, which includes an ordinance and zone map which
divides the jurisdiction of the Commission into zoning districts, with
regulations and requirements and procedures for the establishment of land use
controls, specifically the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.004 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The designated Zoning Administrator is hereby vested with the duty, and
authority, to administer and enforce the regulations under this chapter. The
Administrator shall have the legal authority to make reasonable and necessary
entry onto the lands, included in any case before the Plan Commission under
this chapter, for the purpose of administering his or her duty under this
chapter. Provided however, the Administrator shall exercise his or her
authority in a manner proscribed by custom and common law.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.005 REFERENCE TO OTHER STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any legal citation or reference to another statute, ordinance or regulation
shall be meant to include all amendments thereto or replacements thereof.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.006 CONFLICT WITH OTHER STATUTES.
   Where the requirements under this chapter are in conflict with the
requirements of any other statute, law or ordinance that is in effect within
the city’s territorial jurisdiction, then the more restrictive requirement
shall prevail. If an irreconcilable conflict arises the matter shall be settled
by a separate appeal for variance, in accordance with §
150.077 herein, to the Plan Commission. Final action of the Plan Commission on
appeal may be reviewed by certiorari in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.007 SEVERABILITY.
   The several provisions of this chapter are severable as follows:
   (A)   Chapter provisions.  If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provisions of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said
judgment.
   (B)   Property provisions.  If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this chapter to a
particular property, building, or other structure, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provisions to any other property, building, or
structure not specifically included in said judgment.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.008 AMENDMENT AND REPLACEMENT.
   The Plan Commission shall give notice and hold a public hearing, in the
manner prescribed for changes made to the City Zoning Ordinance in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-4-610, on any proposed amendments to or replacement of this
chapter pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-701(b).
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 150.020 PRE-APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of a formal application for approval of a
preliminary plat, the petitioner shall submit to the Zoning Administrator the
plans and data which outline generally the scope and intent of the proposed
subdivision project.
   (B)   The pre-application plans and data shall include the following, in a
legible form acceptable to the Commission, and suitable for convenient
duplication and dissemination.
      (1)   Present use and configuration of the land, including any existing
land uses defined by the Comprehensive Plan or any of it’s several parts,
improvements, easements, rights-of-way, available utilities, contamination or
other hazards of the land, covenants, restrictions, topography and drainage
patterns.
      (2)   Proposed use and configuration of the land, including lot sizes,
dedications of land for public uses. Dedication of rights-of-way and easements,
street and utility layouts, grading plans, and plans for storm drainage
improvements, and storm drainage mitigation.
      (3)   The utilities and other facilities proposed to be furnished for the
completed project.
      (4)   The name of the proposed development, including street names, lot
and block numbers and other appropriate informational designations.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.021 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’S PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
   (A)   Informal review. The pre-application process is intended to be a
reasonably informal review of the proposal, and the Administrator and
petitioner will jointly review the proposal for compliance with the
requirements of the comprehensive plan, zoning regulations, and subdivision
regulations. It is expected that the Administrator will convene, on one or more
occasions as required, the Plan Commission Technical Advisory Committee.
   (B)   Requirements for notice. The petitioner shall deliver notice of the
plan to all of the respective utility organizations, and to the city’s Utility
Service Board(s) (as defined by I.C. 8-1.5-3-3) and the Board of Public Works
and Safety for their review and comment. Provided the project is located
outside the municipal boundaries the County Plan Commission and/or the County
Board of Commissioners shall also be notified.
   (C)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Provided that the lands included in the petition for preliminary
review are not properly zoned for the project, then the Administrator shall
advise the petitioner that it is necessary to file concurrent petitions for
changes in the zoning map.
      (2)   Provided that any of the lands included in the petition for
preliminary review are proposed as zoning districts for commercial or
manufacturing uses, then the Administrator shall advise the Petitioner that it
is necessary to file concurrent petitions for development plan review under the
provisions of the City Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   Provided that planned uses of the properties require a
determination by the Board of Zoning Appeal then the Administrator shall advise
the petitioner that it is necessary to file concurrent petitions for
recommendations to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (4)   Provided that the lands included in the petition are a flood plain,
as described in Chapter 152 Flood Hazard Regulations, the petitioner shall
provide substantial evidence of the intent to comply with Chapter 152 before
appearing before the Commission.
   (D)   Technical advice. The Zoning Administrator shall hold at least one
formal meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee, in accordance with the
Rules and Procedures of the Plan Commission, prior to issuing any
recommendation or determinations.
   (E)   Recommendations for change. The Zoning Administrator shall consider
all information supplied by any interested party and shall make written
recommendations to the petitioner concerning necessary or appropriate changes
to the plan and the filing of a formal application for primary plat review by
the Commission.
   (F)   Documentation of the Administrator’s review. The Zoning
Administrator’s recommendations is not binding on the Commission. Provided,
however, the written responses of utilities, city departments, the Board of
Public Works and/or any other interested parties, the minutes of the Technical
Advisory Committee and the written recommendations of the Administrator shall
be submitted to the Plan Commission along with the application for primary plat
approval.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.022 FORMAL APPLICATION.
   A written application for primary plat approval of a plat shall be filed by
the petitioner with the Zoning Administrator in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-700
et seq., the Plan Commission rules of procedure and/or any pertinent chapter of
Title 15 (Comprehensive Plan). The application shall be complete and shall
include a copy of the proposed subdivision plan and preliminary plat. The
petitioner is responsible for completing, mailing and filing notifications and
legal advertisements in accordance with Tell City Plan Commission Rules of
Procedure, or the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.023 FILING FEE.
   The filing fee and the costs and fees associated with the public hearing
shall be as required under any applicable chapter of Title 15 Comprehensive
Plan and land use ordinances and the expense thereof shall be paid by the
petitioner. All filing fees shall be paid prior to scheduling a date for the
public hearing.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.024 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’S FORMAL REVIEW.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the proposal does not
conform with these regulations, then the application shall be returned to the
petitioner for modification; however, with the concurrence of the Zoning
Administrator, and any two members of the Commission, the petitioner may
proceed with the application together with a written request for a variance by
the Plan Commission, and the Administrator shall set a date for a public
hearing, on the variance only, within 30 days of the decision. A written
request for variance shall state all of the particulars, including a specific
statement describing the reason a variance is requested. A separate petition
shall be filed for each and every variance sought.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the proposal is in
conformance with these regulations, then the Administrator shall set a date for
a public hearing within 30 days of making the determination.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
PRELIMINARY PLATS AND PRIMARY APPROVAL
§ 150.035 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall consider the preliminary plat at a public
hearing pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-706. After the hearing the Plan Commission, in
accordance with its rules of procedure, may in a duly noticed public meeting:
      (1)   Grant primary approval of the plat as presented;
      (2)   Grant primary approval of the plat contingent on changes or
revisions deemed necessary and in the interests and needs of the community;
      (3)   Disapprove the plat;
      (4)   Continue the hearing to another specified date and time; or
      (5)   Place the request on the table for consideration at some specified
future meeting.
   (B)   Plan Commission primary approval shall constitute authorization to
proceed with construction of the required improvements, and shall precede
secondary approval of the plat. Primary approval shall not qualify a plat for
recording with the Perry County Recorder. Provided however, that no
installations of improvements may be begun until the developer has complied
with all of the requirements of any special conditions, this chapter, the City
Zoning Ordinance, the Thoroughfare Plan Ordinance and the Building Code
Ordinance, including application for and compliance with any permits or other
requirements that may be necessary.
   (C)   Primary plat approval shall not be granted unless proof is presented
that an agreement has been reached to provide the infrastructure required by
this chapter, constructed to the minimum standards required by this chapter, or
to the standards required by the proposed potential owner of the
infrastructure, whichever is more restrictive.
   (D)   Proof of agreements for the provision of infrastructure and/or
services shall take the general form contained in
Appendix B, Section 1. Additional formats may be required depending on the
corporate structure of the provider of the infrastructure. Provided however,
“proofs of agreement” shall contain all of the information required by
Appendix B, Section 1.
   (E)   The required infrastructure may be, but is not limited to, the
following listing:
      (1)   Transportation utilities:
         (a)   Streets and roadways;
         (b)   Alleys;
      (2)   Sidewalks;
      (3)   Bridges;
      (4)   On site drainage utilities;
      (5)   Utilities for drainage of, or to, offsite areas;
      (6)   Water supply utilities:
         (a)   Potable water utilities;
         (b)   Water utility for fire suppression;
         (c)   Reclaimed waste water utility, for irrigation or other approved
purposes;
      (7)   Waste water utilities:
         (a)   Sanitary sewage infrastructure, or;
         (b)   Certifications for private septic system by the County
Sanitarian;
      (8)   Electric utility;
      (9)   Public lighting;
      (10)   Communication utilities:
         (a)   Telephone utility;
         (b)   High speed internet service utility;
         (c)   Wireless communication utilities;
      (11)   Natural gas utility.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.036 NOTIFICATION OF DECISION.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the Petitioner of the Plan
Commission’s decision in writing within 30 days. If the primary plat was
disapproved, the notification shall include a copy of the plat with appropriate
notations setting forth the reason(s) for disapproval and specifying with
particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Attorney for the Advisory Plan Commission shall, in a timely
manner, summarize the orders of the Plan Commission and submit the summary,
along with any Certificate of Surety, provided under §
150.054, or other part of this chapter, to the Perry County Recorder. The form
of the summary shall clearly be designed to provide an encumbrance on all of
the properties included in the petition for primary approval in accordance with
I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and/or I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.037 EFFECTIVE TERM OF PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   Primary approval shall be effective for a maximum period to be determined by
the Plan Commission, beginning on the date of notification and ending with the
petition for secondary approval. Provided; that upon application by the
petitioner the Plan Commission may grant one or more additional extensions each
one not to exceed 12 months. Extension shall each be formally considered in
accordance with the procedures for granting the original primary approval.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.038 PRIMARY PLAT; REQUIRED FORMAT.
   The proposed primary plat shall be formatted as follows:
   (A)   Two copies of the plat, development plan and supplementary data sheets
shall be transmitted to the Zoning Administrator for referral to the Plan
Commission.
   (B)   In addition the petitioner may be required to submit plans and
specifications in an acceptable digital format.
   (C)   Paper copies of the plat and development plan are acceptable for
primary approval (as a guide the final plat shall be submitted on drawings of a
standard size which shall not be less than 20-inch wide by 18-inch high). The
drawings shall be submitted on reproducible media (Mylar, or equivalent) or in
an acceptable digital format.
   (D)   The preferred scale is 100 feet to one inch. Other scales will be
approved by the Administrator if the preferred scale compromises legibility.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.039 PRIMARY PLAT; REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   The proposed primary plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of the subdivision in prominent font;
   (B)   Scale of plat and north point;
   (C)   Boundary survey drawing as follows, based on accurate traverses:
      (1)   Showing angular and lineal dimensions, radii, internal angles,
central angles, points of curvature and tangency, lengths of tangents and
lengths of arcs.
      (2)   Showing state plane coordinates and true courses and distances to
the nearest official survey monuments which shall accurately describe the
location of the plat.
      (3)   Showing township and section lines accurately, tied to the lines of
the subdivision by distances and courses.
      (4)   Showing municipal corporation lines which are within and/or
adjacent to the tract.
   (D)   Boundary description by section, township and range, together with the
legal description.
   (E)   Exact location, dimensions and names, as applicable, of the following:
      (1)   Existing and proposed rights-of-way, public ways, and easements,
with the label(s) “public right-of-way,” “public way,” “public utility
easement,” “public drainage easement,” or “public utility and drainage
easement” to be used as they are appropriate.
      (2)   All existing or proposed streets within and adjacent to the tract,
with existing and proposed names. Names of proposed streets shall, where
possible, conform to the names of corresponding streets which abut and are to
be extended into the subdivision, and except for such extensions, no proposed
name shall duplicate that of any other street in the city or the unincorporated
areas of Perry County. All street names are subject to the approval of the E911
Committee of the Perry County Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   Proposed parks and other open public spaces, and parcels of land to
be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside for use of the
property owners in the subdivision.
      (4)   Permanent buildings or structures.
      (5)   In the case of a re-plat, all the descriptive lines of the original
plat being vacated shall be shown by dotted lines in their proper position in
relation to the new arrangement of the plat, the new plat being clearly shown
in solid lines so as to avoid ambiguity or confusion.
      (6)   Contours of the land as follows:
         (a)   Where slopes are less than 5%, show vertical intervals of one
foot.
         (b)   Where slopes are between 5% and 10%, show vertical intervals of
two feet.
         (c)   Where slopes exceed 10%, show vertical intervals of five feet.
         (d)   The courses of all natural drainage, and their 25-year and 50-
year events for storm water rate of runoff flow.
      (7)   Where lands are identified on the city’s or county’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), determined by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, as flood hazard areas, the plat shall show:
         (a)   The elevation of the regulatory flood.
         (b)   The area subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
         (c)   The National Flood Insurance Program Community Number,
determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, corresponding to the
area shown on the plat.
      (8)   Conditional on the proposed fire suppression utility, a fire
insurance rating (1 through 9), certified by an Insurance Service Organization
(ISO). Provided a certified insurance rating is not forthcoming then the plat
shall show that the fire insurance rating is 9.
      (9)   Layout and numbering of lots.
      (10)   Dimensions on all lots, including lines, arcs, and curves.
      (11)   Building setback lines with dimensions.
      (12)   Location and dimensions of all easements.
   (F)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Where a right-of-way is to be dedicated as a public right-of-way,
but the street thereon is to be a private street, the right-of-way shall be
annotated with the following words inscribed within each such separate right-
of-way: “public right-of-way - privately maintained street.”
      (2)   The petitioner shall also provide in the plat for the maintenance
of all privately maintained streets by the adjoining property owners, utilizing
the following format:
         Maintenance of private streets. The streets shown on this plat, which
have not been accepted by the Perry County Commissioners or the City of Tell
City Board of Public Works and Safety, for maintenance shall be private
streets, and the owners of the lots in this plat shall be responsible for
maintenance of all such private streets and the adjacent right-of-way except
for the utilities or other public improvements located within the right-of-way.
Neither the Perry County Commissioners nor the City Board of Public Works and
Safety shall be required to maintain, repair or replace any private street in
this plat unless and until each such street, to be maintained, has been
improved in accordance with the standards of the Perry County Commissioners for
a street located outside the city, or the city Board of Public Works and Safety
for a street located within the city, and said street has been officially
accepted for maintenance by said county or city as appropriate. This covenant
shall not be altered or removed except by agreement of the Board of
Commissioners of Perry County or the Board of Public Works and Safety of the
city, whichever has jurisdiction.
   (G)   For an unimproved alley and for all easements on the plat, the
petitioner shall provide in the plat for the maintenance of all unimproved
alleys and all easements by the adjoining property owners, and restrictions on
the use thereof, utilizing the following format:
      Use and maintenance of easements and unimproved alleys. Within any
dedicated right-of-way for an alley, and within any dedicated public utility
and/or drainage easement shown on this plat, no structure, building, planting
or other material shall be placed or permitted to remain which may damage or
interfere with the installation and maintenance of utilities or storm water
control, and except for the utilities located within the alley or easement, and
except for improvements accepted by the city or Perry County for maintenance.
The alley or easement shall be maintained by the abutting property owners.
Access to and inspection of all storm water easements by the city and
maintenance by the city, if and as necessary, when maintenance is in the
opinion of the city inadequate to provide for proper storm water management in
the designed improvements, shall be granted, and the county or the city shall,
as necessary, require from the owners of the property the reimbursement of all
costs for inspecting and/or maintaining easements. This covenant shall not be
altered or removed except by agreement of the Board of Commissioners of Perry
County or the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city, whichever has
jurisdiction.
   (H)   The private restrictive covenants, if desired for the plat. A notation
shall be included stating that none of the terms of the plat, except the
private restrictive covenants, shall be changed without the approval of the
Advisory Plan Commission of the city and the Board of Public Works and Safety
of the city, or the Board of Commissioners of Perry County, whichever
governmental unit has jurisdiction over the covenant.
   (I)   The following certifications, names and signatures, in the order
shown:
      (1)   Property owner(s) names and signatures, with the acknowledgment of
a notary public.
      (2)   Petitioner(s) names and signatures, with the acknowledgment of a
notary public if other than the property owner(s).
      (3)   Signature, registration number and seal of the registered
professional land surveyor, or registered professional engineer, preparing the
plat.
      (4)   Signature, registration number and seal of any registered engineer
or registered architect required by this chapter.
      (5)   Primary approval shall be certified by the president and secretary
of the Plan Commission, in the following format:
         STATE OF INDIANA
               {'}'} SS:
         (COUNTY OF PERRY)
   We, the undersigned President and Secretary of the Plan Commission of the
City of Tell City, Perry County, Indiana, do hereby certify that this plat was
given “Primary Approval” by a majority of the members of said Plan Commission
at properly constituted meetings held on the following date(s):
Primary Approval: this                   day of                              ,
20        
                                                                                  
(Signature), President         (Signature), Secretary
      (6)   Certification of the Perry County sanitarian where any septic
system is to be utilized, in the following format:
   The Septic System Plan for
                                                   is approved by the Perry
County Health Department this                     day of                ,
20        
                                                   
(Name), Perry County Sanitarian
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-702 et seq.
FINAL PLATS AND SECONDARY APPROVAL
§ 150.050 SECONDARY APPROVALS.
   (A)   After primary approval of the plat by the Plan Commission, the
petitioner shall proceed to install the improvements required by the primary
approval. Provided however, that no installations of infrastructure or
improvements may be begun until the developer has complied with all of the
requirements of this chapter, the City Zoning Ordinance, the Thoroughfare Plan
Ordinance and the Building Code Ordinance, or any special conditions imposed by
the Commission, including application for and compliance with any permits that
may be required.
   (B)   When the required improvements have been installed and otherwise
completed, inspected and accepted by the appropriate agencies, and all terms
and conditions of the primary approval have been satisfied, the plat or an
approved phase thereof may be granted secondary approval.
   (C)   A notice of hearing is not required for secondary approval (I.C. 36-7-
4-710). Provided; however, that Commission action on secondary approval shall
be made by the Advisory Plan Commission at a properly constituted public
meeting.
   (D)   A plat shall not be filed with the Perry County Auditor and shall not
be recorded by the Perry County Recorder unless granted secondary approval by
the Plan Commission.
   (E)   Secondary approval shall be certified by the president and secretary
of the Plan Commission, in the following format, or in a format approved by the
Attorney for the Commission:
      STATE OF INDIANA
               {'}'} SS:
      (COUNTY OF PERRY)
   We, the undersigned President and Secretary of the Plan Commission of the
City of Tell City, Perry County, Indiana, do hereby certify that this plat was
given “Primary and Secondary Approvals” by a majority of the members of said
Plan Commission at properly constituted meetings held on the following dates:
Primary Approval on the                  : day of             , 20      
Secondary Approval on the                  day of              , 20      
                                                                                    
(Signature), President         (Signature), Secretary
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state provisions, see I.C. 36-7-4-711
§ 150.051 RECORDING OF APPROVED PLAT.
   (A)   Within five working days of the secondary approval of a plat, or a
phase thereof, the petitioner shall have a fully-signed original of the
approved plat recorded with the Perry County Recorder, and shall deliver one
copy of the recorded plat to each of the following agencies:
      (1)   City of Tell City;
         (a)   City Clerk;
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator;
         (c)   The City Engineer, if applicable.
      (2)   Perry County Auditor;
      (3)   Perry County Surveyor.
   (B)   The petitioner shall be responsible for payment of all fees required
for recording and any necessary copying of the plat.
   (C)   If the petitioner certifies a need for additional time to accomplish
the recording and distribution of copies, the Commission may grant additional
time, at the same time and in the same meeting at which secondary approval is
granted.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.052 FAILURE TO RECORD PLAT.
   If the final plat is not filed and recorded, within the allowed time
following secondary approval, it shall have no validity and shall not be
recorded except by petitioning for and re-approval and re-certification by the
Advisory Plan Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.053 PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Where it is in the interest of the petitioner to complete construction of
the improvements, required by the primary approval, in phases rather than all
at once, the petitioner shall so state in writing to the Plan Commission, along
with the petition for secondary approval, and deliver the request together with
maps and drawings showing the intended phasing of the project. The Plan
Commission may at its option provide secondary approval to each phase as it is
built, provided that at no time shall the phasing plan produce an unsafe
condition or a utility plan that is not in compliance with the requirements of
the primary approval, of Indiana law or this chapter. A phasing plan shall not
produce additional cost to any utility over and above the cost that would be
incurred if the overall plan was developed at one time.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.054 SECONDARY APPROVAL PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-709 secondary approval may be granted, by the
Commission, prior to completion of the improvements and conditions, specified
under the primary approval, provided that the petitioner must provide proof
that there is a binding agreement, to complete the project, with the current or
proposed future owners, operators and maintainers of the infrastructure. The
Binding Agreement shall, at the sole discretion, collectively or individually,
of the owners or future owners, operators and maintainers of the
infrastructure, include a requirement for surety for the completion of the
project.
   (B)   Proof of binding agreement shall be in a form approved by the attorney
for the Plan Commission and shall include the following general forms as they
apply:
      (1)   A resolution of the Board of Public Works and Safety;
      (2)   A resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Perry County;
      (3)   A resolution of any applicable Utility Board of Directors;
      (4)   A certification of agreement over the signature of the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer or the General Manager of a
Corporation, providing the attorney for the Commission agrees that he/she has
that authority;
   (C)   The resolution or certification of agreement must include the
following information (canons of construction):
      (1)   A comprehensive description of the infrastructure covered by the
agreement in the form of complete maps, drawings, specifications and operating
requirements;
      (2)   A statement as to whether or not the agreement is binding and
enforceable under the laws of Indiana;
      (3)   A statement as to whether or not the certifier has the legal
authority to enter into the agreement (service area or municipal jurisdiction);
      (4)   A statement as to whether or not the petitioner has provided
security for any contribution, by the petitioner, to the project;
      (5)   The form of the security provided, and the identity of the entity
providing the security;
      (6)   Whether the agreement is in accordance with the owner’s or
potential owner’s standard policy for development (certification of convenience
and necessity);
   (D)   In order to resolve any doubts, or conflicts, concerning
certifications related to secondary approval, the Commission may require the
verbal testimony and/or the written certifications of attorneys, registered
professional engineers or other experts as it may find necessary. Any such
additional testimony or evidence shall be at the expense of the petitioner.
   (E)   If the petitioner, or the petitioner’s agent, is performing the
installation of the infrastructure then the current or proposed future owners
of the infrastructure may require such security as they deem necessary, in
amount, type, or form, to ensure the adequate and proper completion of the
infrastructure. The security may be in any of the following forms as approved
by the governing entity of the current or proposed future owner of the
infrastructure:
      (1)   Refundable aid to construction deposit, with a contractual
agreement;
      (2)   Non-refundable aid to construction deposit;
      (3)   Escrow, with a contractual agreement;
      (4)   Cash deposit with contractual agreement;
      (5)   Deposit of a negotiable instrument with a contractual agreement of
disposition;
      (6)   Performance or special bond, without any restrictions or
limitations, from a financial institution approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.055 DETERMINATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator shall assist the Plan Commission in determining
compliance with the requirements of the primary approval. In so assisting, the
Administrator shall require a finding by the city’s Board of Public Works and
Safety or the city’s Utility Board or the Perry County Commissioners, as
appropriate, that all required public infrastructure has been installed in
accordance with the primary approval. The governmental unit or utility may, at
its sole discretion, require that any request for secondary or primary approval
shall be accompanied by a certificate from a registered professional engineer,
or registered professional architect, attesting to the conditions cited as a
reason for the approval. The certificate shall bear the professional seal of
the engineer or architect. The engineer or architect shall be certified to
practice in the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.056 EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE WITH PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Satisfactory evidence that the improvements and installations required
under a primary approval have been completed and are in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter shall include but not be limited to all of the
following:
      (1)   Submission of satisfactory test results for all systems that
require testing to meet design, local, state and/or federal requirements.
      (2)   Submission of letters from all public or private utility agencies
and organizations, and/or the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety, and/or
Utility Boards, and/or the Perry County Commissioners stating that the
installation of all public and private utility facilities and public works has
been accomplished in full compliance with the plans and specifications of the
preliminary plat and are therefore accepted for ownership and maintenance.
      (3)   Submission of a signed statement by the petitioner to the Zoning
Administrator stating that the petitioner has performed a review and inspection
of the required improvements and compared those improvements to the
requirements of the approved primary plat and that all requirements under the
approved primary plat have been satisfactorily completed. Any request for
secondary approval shall be accompanied by a certificate from a registered
professional engineer, or registered professional architect, attesting to the
conditions cited as a reason for the approval. The certificate shall bear the
professional seal of the engineer or architect. The engineer or architect shall
be certified to practice in the State of Indiana.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall with the approval of the city’s Board
of Public Works and Safety or the city’s Utility Board or the Perry County
Commissioners, as appropriate, make a final determination concerning the
acceptability of each piece of evidence as proof of satisfactory completion of
the requirements of the primary approval. The determination of the Zoning
Administrator shall not constitute primary or secondary approval of the plat or
primary or secondary approval of the construction of the infrastructure.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.057 FINAL PLAT; REQUIRED FORMAT.
   The petitioner shall submit four mylar (or equivalent) tracings of the
proposed final plat for original signatures, formatted as follows:
   (A)   Sheets shall measure no less than 20 inches in width and 18 inches in
height.
   (B)   Where the plat has been prepared using CAD (Computer Assisted Drawing)
software, an additional copy of the plat shall be delivered to the Plan
Commission on computer disk in a .dwg or .dfx format. Other specifications,
primarily in text form, may be submitted in .pdf format
   (C)   Maps and drawings shall have the same scale and general requirements
as the primary plat unless the Commission approves otherwise.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.058 FINAL PLAT; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   The information required for the primary plat shall also be provided on the
final plat, together with any changes or additions required by the Plan
Commission as conditions of primary or secondary plat approval.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 150.065 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as noted, the following standards apply to all development plans and
subdivisions of land.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.066 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Each development plan for subdivision approval shall contain in addition to
the requirements under this chapter, the requirements under the City Zoning
Ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan Code,
Chapter 153 and the Flood Hazard Regulations Code,
Chapter 152.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.067 SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subdivision of land is permitted in all zoning districts within the
planning and zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Subdivision and development plans, and subdivision plats, shall be
required for all subdivisions of land, except exempt subdivisions of land named
herein, in all zoning districts within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
   (C)   Provided that lands, which are unsuited for development, for any of
the reasons stated in this chapter, the Comprehensive Plan or in the City
Zoning Ordinance, may not be altered from their present state without a special
development plan approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.068 CERTIFICATION OF DESIGN.
   The design of the primary plat and the secondary plat, for a subdivision,
and each development plan, shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer, or architect, licensed by the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.069 DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISION PLAN APPROVAL.
   The Plan Commission shall approve the development plan for a subdivision of
land that requires Plan Commission approval, and it is hereby required that no
plat, or subdivision of any lot, or any part thereof, or any subdivision that
includes dedication of lands for public use, within the territorial
jurisdiction of the city, shall be entitled to be recorded with the County
Recorder until it has been approved. No subdivision of land shall have any
validity until it has been approved in accordance with the criteria of this
chapter.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.070 EXEMPT SUBDIVISIONS OF LAND.
   The following subdivisions of land shall be exempt from the requirements of
this chapter:
   (A)   The division of a lot into more than one lot as a part of the
settlement of an estate by a court of law.
   (B)   A division of land for a unit of government, or a utility, to acquire
or improve a right-of-way easement.
   (C)   An adjustment of lot lines between existing adjoining lots which shall
not violate the conditions and standards imposed by this chapter, the City
Zoning Ordinance, or the general standards set forth in the Comprehensive Plan
(
Chapter 153). In addition the subdivision(s) shall not interfere with any
existing easements or other access requirements.
   (D)   A subdivision of an existing lot or lots established under I.C. 36-7-
3, or a previous action of the Plan Commission under I.C. 36-7-4, which
subdivision shall not violate the conditions and standards imposed by this
chapter, the City Zoning Ordinance, or the general standards set forth in the
Comprehensive Plan (
Chapter 153). In addition the subdivision(s) shall not interfere with any
existing easements or other access requirements. The descriptions of the lots
created by subdivision shall be recorded in accordance with the requirements of
I.C. 36-7-3-3(a)(3), which descriptions shall contain reference to the original
lot numbers.
   (E)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the burial of corpses,
providing that the subdivision is located in a land area previously approved
for use as a cemetery.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.071 DEVELOPMENT PLAN STANDARDS.
   Each development plan shall incorporate improvements that conform to the
standards under
Chapter 154 and this chapter. These requirements are, except where noted,
minimum requirements. Where it is necessary to accommodate the particular needs
of the development plan under review, or the particular needs of the community
outside of the proposed development, higher standards and greater requirements
shall be included as required by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.072 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, SUBDIVISION AND ZONING
PROVISIONS.
   Before either primary plat (plan) or secondary plat (plan) approval is
granted the Plan Commission shall make specific findings of the following
requirements individually. The vote shall be by roll call vote:
   (A)   Before plan approval shall be granted, the Advisory Plan Commission
shall determine if the development plan complies with the provisions of all
ordinances, state and federal statutes or state or federal regulations.
   (B)   Applications for approval shall not be accepted for consideration if
the property constituting the development plan, or the petitioner, is in
violation of any city ordinance or state or federal statute at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   In making its determination, the Advisory Plan Commission shall review
the development plan for requirements of the Comprehensive Plan Code,
Chapter 153 and the Thoroughfare Plan Code, Old Code 34, the Flood Hazard
Regulations,
Chapter 152, and the City Zoning Ordinance, and this chapter, for but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Compatibility of the development plan with surrounding land uses.
      (2)   Compatibility of the development plan with the requirements and
recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Adequate provisions for internal management of traffic, including
access for fire protection and law enforcement vehicles.
      (4)   Analysis of the capacity of thoroughfares to ensure that adjacent
streets can safely and efficiently accommodate the additional traffic generated
by the development.
      (5)   Adequate provisions for public facilities and infrastructure, and
provisions for extension of infrastructure to adjacent developable properties.
      (6)   Provisions for the allocation of land for streets, parks, schools,
public and semi-public buildings, homes, businesses and industry, as
appropriate.
      (7)   Adequate on-site management of storm-water, and erosion control on
site.
      (8)   In cooperation with drainage utility or agency of jurisdiction,
provisions for management of the additional storm water that will be generated
by development of other properties for which this site provides natural
drainage. Such cooperation shall not require the petitioner to bear the entire
cost of such provisions.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions, contained in this chapter, shall not
exclude other provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, or other conditions
favorable to health, safety and convenience, and the harmonious development of
the territorial jurisdiction of the city. Specifically, and as a minimum
requirement, the Commission shall follow the review standards and make the
individual findings required by the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.073 CONDITIONS OF THE LAND.
   No land shall be developed if such land is considered by the Advisory Plan
Commission to be unsuitable for such development by reason of flooding,
improper drainage, or any topographic feature deemed harmful to the health and
safety of the community, or by any environmental condition of the land which
shall qualify the land for environmental review and which has not been reviewed
and/or remediated in accordance with federal and state laws. Due consideration
shall be given by the petitioner to the prevention of air and stream pollution,
the proper treatment and disposal of waste and refuse and the proper management
of storm water runoff.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.074 PUBLIC SITES.
   Whenever the reasonable requirements provided by these regulations shall
indicate the necessity for providing for a school site, park or other
recreational site, or other public lands within any proposed development, and
if such lands have not been dedicated to the city, county, Board of Education,
or other appropriate public agency, and if no provision has been made for such
dedication, then such lands shall be reserved for acquisition by the
appropriate agency having jurisdiction over such land for a period of not less
than four years, by purchase or other means. If said four years has expired
without having begun acquisition procedures, the owners of such lands shall
have the right to develop such lands in any other manner consistent with these
regulations. Direct and public notice shall be given that such lands have been
set aside and reserved and the purpose for which the lands have been set aside
and reserved. Proof that such notice has been given shall be obtained by the
Attorney for the Commission, and certified to the Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.075 ESTIMATE OF COST OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Provided such information is required as proof of compliance before the
Commission, the petitioner shall employ a professionally qualified registered
professional engineer, or a professionally qualified registered professional
architect to make an estimate of the probable expenditures necessary to enable
the petitioner to build the required improvements in conformance with the
standards established in this chapter.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.076 VARIANCE AND MODIFICATION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Where evidence may support a petitioner’s challenge to these
regulations, in that extraordinary hardship or practical difficulty may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, and/or that the purpose of these
regulations may be served to a greater extent by an alternative proposal, the
proposed plan shall be referred to the Plan Commission and the Plan Commission
may grant variance to these development regulations so that substantial justice
may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that such variance shall
not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations;
and provided further that the Plan Commission shall not grant a variance unless
it shall make findings in writing based upon the evidence presented to it in
each specific case that the following criteria have been affirmatively
determined:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to public
safety, health or welfare, or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Due to the peculiar physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result, as distinguished from mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of these regulations is carried out. Financial hardship shall not
constitute grounds for a variance; and
      (4)   The variance shall comply substantially with the provisions of the
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   A petition for variance shall be submitted in writing by the
petitioner prior to the Plan Commission’s hearing for approval of the primary
plat. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and the
facts relied upon by the petitioner. Where the variance has an impact on design
and construction of public facilities, all public agencies as appropriate shall
be given ample time to investigate the petition and comment in writing to the
Plan Commission. In approving variances, the Plan Commission may require such
conditions as will in its judgment substantially secure the objectives of these
regulations. The Plan Commission may require the petitioner to submit, along
with his or her petition for variance, a certification from a registered
professional engineer, or registered professional architect, attesting to the
facts submitted in support of the petition.
   (C)   The petition for variance shall be docketed and heard before the
Commission as a separate issue and docket, and public notice shall be given,
and the issued resolved, in the same manner as approval of the primary plat.
(Ord. 470, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.077 APPEALS TO THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Plan Commission concerning
any official action on an application for subdivision approval may appeal to
the Plan Commission in writing for modification of their decision in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-4-708.
   (B)   Where a decision by the Plan Commission was made at a public hearing
and that decision is under appeal, a public hearing shall again be required in
order to hear the appeal of that decision, and the petitioner for the appeal
shall pay for the hearing as may be required by any part of Title 15 Land Use
Codes.
   (C)   Final action of the Plan Commission on Appeal may be reviewed by
certiorari in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.078 SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   For any subdivision of land, permanent survey monuments shall be set at the
corners and other points of angular change in the perimeter of the subdivision,
and at all intersections of lot lines with other lines, and at points of
angular change in lot lines. Monuments shall be not less than 5/8-inch diameter
by 30-inch long steel bars with the surveyor’s registration number on the cap.
Monuments shall extend not more than one inch above, or more than three inches
below the finished grade of the land.
   (A)   At least two permanent and adequate survey monuments shall be
established as a Bench Mark and shall be clearly designated on the plat each
with its distance above mean sea level.
   (B)   At least two of the permanent survey monuments shall be clearly
designated on the plat with the state plane coordinates.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.079 BLOCKS.
   Blocks shall not exceed 800 feet in length as measured between the right-of-
way lines of the cross streets, or as measured from the right-of-way line of
the cross street and the rearmost property line of the lot at the end of a cul-
de-sac or dead-end street.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.080 LOTS AND STREETS.
   (A)   All lots shall be arranged so that each building or structure to be
placed thereon shall have adequate space for light, air and fire protection,
and each building shall be so sited as to provide convenient access to streets
and parking facilities.
   (B)   The following specifications shall apply to all lots:
      (1)   Rights-of-way streets.  Every lot shall abut an improved street in
a dedicated public right-of-way unless the plat provides for private streets as
described herein.
      (2)   Building setbacks. Minimum building setback lines shall be
established on all lots, and they shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision, for the type of development and the use contemplated; provided,
however, that they shall not be less than the standards established in the City
Zoning Ordinance for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
      (3)   Area and frontage.  The area, minimum frontage, depth and width
requirements shall not be less than the standards established in the City
Zoning Ordinance, for the Zoning District in which the lot is located.
      (4)   Lot line design. Side lot lines which are at right angles or radial
to street lines shall be preferred.
   (C)   Minimum standards and requirements for streets, roadways and alleys
shall be established by the unit of jurisdiction (Tell City Board of Public
Works and Safety) (or in certain special circumstances by the Board of
Commissioners of Perry County); provided however, that the minimum standards
and requirements shall not be less than those required by the City Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.081 ALLEYS.
   In general alleys will not be permitted in residential areas unless there
are special circumstances requiring their use. Commercial and industrial areas
may have alleys permitted. Each Commercial or Industrial lot may be accessible
from an alley along its rear lot line and the width shall be established by the
Commission. If an alley is provided, the standard of construction shall be
defined by the unit of jurisdiction (Tell City Board of Public Works and
Safety) (or in certain special circumstances the Perry County Board of
Commissioners); provided however, the minimum standards and requirements shall
not be less than those required by the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.082 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Dedicated public utility easements shall be provided in accordance with the
following standards. The public utility easement shall not be used as surface
storm-water easements, and access to utility easements for utility installation
or service shall not be via surface storm-water easements.
   (A)   Rear lot lines. Where a dedicated public alley is not provided along
the rear of each lot, each lot shall have a public utility easement of not less
than 20 feet in width located along the entire width of the rear lot line.
Where so located along lot lines within the subdivision, one-half of each such
easement shall be taken from the rear of each abutting lot.
   (B)   Side lot lines. Public utility easements shall be dedicated along
interior side lot lines as required by the conditions of installation of
services, as determined by the providers thereof of each such service.
   (C)   Front lot lines.  At the discretion of the Commission, and in addition
to other right-of-way dedications, public utility easements may be required
along front lot lines, as a condition of approval of a subdivision of land, to
facilitate the installation of services where said services cannot be provided
except under the paved portion of a street.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
STREETS, ALLEYS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 150.095 APPLICABILITY.
   The street and alley development standards in this sub-chapter apply to all
streets whether inside or outside of the corporate limits of the city, except
as specifically provided herein.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.096 GENERAL DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter are subject to provisions of Old Code
Chapter 34, the Thoroughfare Plan, its revisions and successor ordinances.
Certain provisions of the Thoroughfare Plan shall be evident on the preliminary
plat as follows:
      (1)   All streets represented on the preliminary plat shall be designated
for their intended use as provided in the plan, such as arterial, feeder,
residential, private, or other as may hereinafter be provided.
      (2)   Minimum general standards shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the thoroughfare plan, such as minimum longitudinal grade,
minimum transverse slopes, minimum right of way width, minimum traveled way
width, minimum sight distances, minimum construction standards, minimum
lighting requirements or other requirements as may hereinafter be provided.
   (B)   Street layout and construction shall take into account the
relationship of the proposed streets to existing and planned streets, major
thoroughfares, adjacent developments, topographical conditions, public
convenience and safety, and the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets. Local streets shall be so laid out that their use by through-traffic
will be discouraged. Where a new street is located in a dedicated public right-
of-way and complies with the design and construction requirements for inclusion
in the maintenance program of the city as appropriate, the petitioner shall
dedicate the street to the city, or other applicable jurisdiction, as public
improvements, after construction and acceptance by the city or other
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Where a subdivision borders on an existing county, state or federal
roadway then compliance with standards required by the bordering roadways shall
equal or exceed those required by the jurisdiction owning the existing roadway.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.097 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The petitioner shall, at his or her expense, design and provide all proposed
streets, alleys, roadways, roadway drainage, bridges and other access
infrastructure, on dedicated rights of way in accordance with standards of
design and construction provided by the Board of Public Works and Safety and/or
other entity that has jurisdiction over the proposed infrastructure.
   (A)   Whenever the proposed streets, alleys, or roadways intersect with,
coincide with, or impinge upon any federal, state or county right-of-way or
traveled way, then the petitioner shall comply with regulations and standards
related to that jurisdiction.
   (B)   Provided however, that if the government unit of jurisdiction has not
established design standards for low volume roadways, streets and alleys, then
the general design criteria shall be that contained in “Low-Volume Road Task
Force Reference Document” dated 1988 Author Tommy Nantung, or other design
standard approved by the Plan Commission. The design standard reference is
available from the Indiana Local Technical Assistance Program administered by
Purdue University West Lafayette, Indiana
   (C)   No street, alley or roadway shall have dimensions or general standards
less than those required by the City Zoning Ordinance or the Thoroughfare
Ordinance.
   (D)   Roadway drainage and the general drainage for the project shall be
coordinated with, and incorporated in, the roadway design.
   (E)   The government unit of jurisdiction may require that all plans and
specifications and all certifications of completion be provided by a registered
professional engineer bearing his or her written certification and seal.
   (F)   With the consent of the unit of government having jurisdiction the
petitioner may develop private, non public, streets and alleys with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Private roads, streets and alleys shall be shown on the final
recorded plat as private access;
      (2)   A covenant stating the conditions by which the private roads are to
be constructed, operated and maintained shall be recorded with the Perry County
Recorder and the covenant shall run with the land. The covenants may not be
changed or abrogated in any manner without the consent of the Commission.
      (3)   No cost of construction, operation or maintenance shall accrue to
the city or the County of Perry or to any of their operating units except as
may be expressly provided herein.
      (4)   No private infrastructure may be accepted for ownership, operation
or maintenance or to be incorporated into the transportation system of the unit
of jurisdiction until the infrastructure shall have been brought to the
standards stated herein, for acceptance as public infrastructure.
   (G)   Any street or roadway standards provided by any agency shall contain
the statutory requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-702.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.098 ALTERNATE MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCE.
   At the intersection of any street, alley or driveway with a street, the
minimum distance that an observer sitting in an automobile at the intersection
shall be able to see a vehicle approaching from any direction on a through-
street grossing the intersection shall be not less than the distance shown
below corresponding to the posted speed limit:
Miles Per Hour Feet
Miles Per Hour Feet
20             177
25             217
30             267
35             328
40             403
45             482
50             571
55             655
 
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.099 EXTENSION OF STREETS.
   In order to provide for future development of adjacent land, and as required
by the Plan Commission, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Proposed streets.  Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary
line of an adjacent tract, and terminated without a turnaround. Provided;
however, that if it is required by the Board of Public Works and Safety a
suitable traffic barrier and signage shall be erected at the terminus of the
street.
   (B)   Extension of streets.  Where an existing street terminates at the
boundary line of a proposed subdivision, either the street shall be continued
into the street pattern of the proposed subdivision or a turnaround shall be
provided in the proposed subdivision in accordance with the requirements for
dead-end streets.
   (C)   Dead-end streets. Except for streets approved for future extension
into adjacent developable territory, the closed end of a dead-end street shall
be provided with a cul-de-sac for vehicle turnaround.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.100 ALTERNATE MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR INTERSECTIONS.
   Proposed intersections shall comply with the following design criteria:
   (A)   Cross streets. The extension of a proposed street into the development
in alignment with an existing street at an intersection shall be preferred.
Where a proposed intersection cannot match the centerline alignment of an
existing street at the intersection, the intersection shall be offset by not
less than 125 feet.
   (B)   Driveways.  Driveways shall have the following minimum separation
distances:
      (1)   Not closer than 25 feet to the intersection of any streets or
alleys.
      (2)   Not closer than four feet to any other curb opening.
      (3)   Not closer than two feet to a property line.
   (C)   Angle of intersection.  Streets, alleys and driveways shall intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles, but not less than 70 degrees nor more
than 110 degrees.
   (D)   Arcs.  Property lines at intersections shall be rounded by the
following arcs:
      (1)   At the intersection of a local street with another street, at least
25 feet.
      (2)   At all other street intersections, at least 50 feet.
      (3)   At the intersection of an alley with a street, not less than 15
feet.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.101 ALTERNATE MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LONGITUDINAL GRADING. 
   (A)   Requirements of storm drainage for the roadway and adjoining lands
shall be considered when establishing longitudinal grades.
   (B)   Final surface grades on streets and alleys shall not be less than 5%,
or greater than 8% as measured along the centerline of the street. For
variances from this standard a finding of necessity shall be required of the
Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.102 ALTERNATE MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR TRANSVERSE SLOPES.
   (A)   Requirements of storm drainage for the roadway shall be considered
when establishing transverse slopes.
   (B) The slope of the pavement from the crown of the street to the edge of
pavement, or pan of the gutter if present, shall be 1.25%. The slope on
shoulders shall be 4%.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.103 ALTERNATE MINIMUM RADII OF CURVATURE ON THE CENTERLINE.
   Where a deflection angle of greater than ten degrees in the alignment of a
street occurs, a curve shall be introduced as follows:
   (A)   Collector streets.  The minimum radii of curvature shall be no less
than 500 feet;
   (B)   Local and industrial streets.  The minimum radii of curvature shall be
no less than 150 feet.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.104 ALTERNATE MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.
   (A)   Where a proposed lot abuts an existing public street with a one-half
right-of-way width of less than 30 feet on the side of the street on which the
lot is located, the owner shall dedicate land as necessary to provide a one-
half right-of-way of 30 feet width as a public half right-of-way along the
entire property line that abuts the street; except, however, that where the
street is a city, county, state or federal street, the one-half right-of-way
dedication shall conform with the county, state or federal requirement for the
particular street on which the lot abuts, but shall be not less than 30 feet of
total one-half right-of-way width.
   (B)   Minimum width of dedicated public right-of-way within a development,
including a subdivision shall not be less than:
      (1)   Streets: 60 feet;
      (2)   Alleys: 16 feet;
      (3)   Cul-de-sac (local streets): outside diameter of 100 feet;
      (4)   Cul-de-sac (industrial streets): outside diameter of 120 feet.
   (C)   The right-of-way width for streets under county, state or federal
control shall be as determined by the owner thereof, but shall be dedicated at
not less than the widths mandated herein.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.105 ONE-HALF RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Dedication of one-half rights-of-way for streets and alleys shall be
prohibited. Where there exists a dedicated or platted one-half right-of-way for
a street or alley on an adjacent tract to be developed, and where the minimum
right-of-way width for the street or alley and other requirements can be
achieved utilizing the existing one-half right-of-way, and subject to Plan
Commission approval, the other one-half shall be platted and developed.
Otherwise, one-half rights-of-way along the boundary of the land to be
developed will be permitted only if the owner of the adjoining undeveloped land
simultaneously dedicates the other one-half of the right-of-way as part of the
plat.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.106 ALTERNATE MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTH.
   Minimum widths of paved surfaces of streets and alleys shall be:
 
Street Classification          Width of Pavement Including Curb and Gutter
Industrial Street              Thirty-four feet back-to-back of curb and gutter
Collector and local streets    Forty feet back-to-back of curb and gutter*
Cull-de-sac: Local street      Eighty feet back-to-back of curb and gutter
Cull-de-sac: Industrial street One-hundred feet back-to-back of curb and gutter
Alleys                         Ten feet (curb and gutter not required)
 
* Width of pavement on local and collector streets may be reduced to 32 feet
including curb and gutter where each lot that abuts the street has not less
than one-half acre of net lot area, and where each lot conforms with the
minimum lot dimensions under the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.107 ALTERNATE MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS AND MINIMUM PAVING DEPTH.
   Pavement shall meet: the following standards:
Material Depth Industrial and Collector Streets Local Streets Alleys
Material                      Depth Industrial and Local Streets Alleys
                              Collector Streets
Sub-base (under all pavements):
Compacted aggregate #53 (95%) 8 inches             6 inches      6 inches
density
Flexible Asphaltic Pavement
Base, #5                      3 inches             2 inches      N/A
Binder, #9                    2 inches             N/A           N/A
Surface, #11                  1 inch               1 inch        N/A
Portland Cement Concrete Pavement:
Concrete (3,500 p.s.i. or
greater as required by        7 inches             6 inches      N/A
traffic load)*
Chip and Seal Pavement        N/A                  N/A           Local standard
 
*Expansion joints shall be provided at the ends of each radius section and
every 150 feet. Control joints shall be provided every ten feet. Joints shall
be filled with approved expansion or sealing material.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.108 CURB AND GUTTER
   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be installed on each side of the paved
street surface. The type selected shall be either stand-up, rolled or V-curb,
constructed as shown in the cross section detail drawing in
Appendix “A”, Curb and Gutter Details, and according to the following
additional specifications:
   (A)   Base. The base for the curb and gutter shall be three inches of
compacted #53 aggregate or #11 stone.
   (B)   Expansion and control joints.  Expansion joints shall be provided at
the ends of each radius section and every 150 lineal feet of roadway. Control
joints shall be provided every ten feet. Joints shall be filled with an
approved sealing or expansion material.
   (C)   Concrete. All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall be 3,500 per
square inch, or greater as required by the traffic load, and shall meet the
standard specifications for curbs and gutters of the Indiana Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.109 ALTERNATE MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SHOULDERS.
   Grass-surfaced shoulders with a width of not less than six feet and a slope
with a run/rise ratio of 3:1 or flatter shall be installed along and adjacent
to each side of a developed street or alley, and shall blend into the adjoining
yard or drainage improvements as required.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.110 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks are optional. Where sidewalks are to be installed or replaced,
they shall be constructed in accordance with the following specifications:
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be provided on each side of all streets where
applicable.
   (B)   (1)   Sidewalks constructed within the street right-of-way shall be of
portland cement concrete and shall have a minimum width of five feet and a
minimum depth of concrete of four inches over three inches of INDOT #53
aggregate stone, except when the sidewalk is designed into a section of a
driveway entrance, in which case the minimum depth of concrete shall be six
inches over three inches of INDOT #53 aggregate stone.
      (2)   The surface shall be sloped at a maximum of 1/4 inch per foot
toward the street.
   (C)   Curb ramps shall be installed at all sidewalk-curb intersections in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act including the following
design criteria:
      (1)   All ramps shall be a minimum of five feet wide and have a maximum
slope no greater than 8.33% (12:1) in the direction of travel and a maximum
slope of 2% (50:1) perpendicular to the direction of travel. Where site
conditions are such that a five foot wide ramp is not feasible, the ramp shall
be as wide as possible with a minimum width of 3 feet, or as wide as possible
with a minimum of 32 inches of clear space when passing an obstruction such as
a utility pole or other permanent feature not readily convenient for
relocation.
      (2)   All ramps shall have a landing at the upper elevation no less than
four feet by four feet, free of obstructions and protrusions, and with a slope
no greater than 2% (50:1) in any direction. When site conditions are such that
a 2% slope in all directions is not feasible, the slope perpendicular to the
primary direction of travel shall be held to a 2% maximum and the slope
parallel to the direction of travel shall not exceed 8.33% (12:1).
      (3)   In extreme cases where the site conditions make a ramp impossible
to construct in accordance with items in division (C)(1) and (2), the landing
width may be decreased to three feet and the longitudinal slope of the ramp may
be increased to 10% (10:1) for a maximum rise of six inches.
      (4)   All ramps shall be equipped with detectable warning devices in
accordance with the most current INDOT standard.
      (5)   All ramps shall have a broom finished surface with grooves
perpendicular to the direction of travel in accordance with the most current
INDOT standard.
      (6)   The algebraic difference in grades between the base of the ramp and
gutter shall be no greater than 11%. Where site conditions are such that an 11%
difference is not feasible, a two foot wide level strip shall be provided.
      (7)   Changes in level up to 1/4 inch may be vertical with no edge
treatment. Changes in level between 1/4 inch and 1/2 inch shall be beveled with
a slope no greater than 1:2. Changes in level greater than 1/2 inch shall be
treated as a ramp and shall follow the criteria herein.
      (8)   Where possible, drainage inlets shall be positioned uphill from
curb ramps to prevent puddles in the path of travel. If inlet grates are to be
located in walking surfaces, the openings shall be no greater than 1/2 inch
wide in the direction of travel. Elongated openings are allowed perpendicular
to the direction of travel.
   (D)   Transverse joints shall be made at intervals of five feet and only
with a proper joint cutting tool or metal division plates. One half inch
transverse expansion joints shall be placed not more than 40 feet apart and 1/
2 inch expansion joints shall be placed along intersecting sidewalks, yard
walks, curb walks and street curbing.
   (E)   Curing of sidewalks shall conform to that of a portland cement
concrete pavement as specified in the latest edition of the INDOT standard
specifications.
   (F)   Forms shall be of wood, metal or other approved material and shall
extend for the full depth of the concrete. Forms shall be straight, free from
warp, and of sufficient strength to resist the pressure of the concrete without
springing. Bracing and staking of forms shall be such that the forms remain in
both horizontal and vertical alignment until their removal.
   (G)   The surface shall be finished with a wooden float with broom finish.
No plastering of the surface shall be permitted. All outside edges of the slab
and all joints shall be edged with 1/4 inch radius edging tool.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007; Am. Ord. 1060, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 150.111 SIGNS.
   The petitioner shall provide the development with street signs, including
but not limited to stop, warning, street identification, parking control, and
information signs, in accordance with the standards the city Street Department
or other jurisdiction as appropriate, none of which shall be installed to a
standard less than the standards in the Indiana Manual on Uniform Tragic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways, 1988 Edition.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
WASTEWATER SERVICE
§ 150.125 WASTEWATER TREATMENT/SANITARY SEWER STANDARDS.
   (A)   The petitioner shall design and provide the proposed development with
a complete wastewater collection and treatment system in accordance with the
design standards that are applicable to the type of system used. Where the
system is to be connected to a public wastewater treatment system, the plans
shall be certified by a professional engineer registered in Indiana. Where the
system will connect to the city’s wastewater facilities, the system shall be
designed in accordance with the city’s design standards, the plans shall be
approved by the city’s Board of Public Works and Safety (Tell City Sewer
Department), and the petitioner shall obtain Indiana Department of
Environmental Management construction permits. In all other cases, design and
plan approval shall be by the appropriate city, county, state and federal
agencies as required. In certain alternate types of systems proof of a
“certificate of convenience and necessity” may be required in accordance with
I.C. 8-1-2-89.
   (B)   When in the judgment of the Board of Public Works and Safety (Tell
City Sewer Department) portions of the sanitary sewer facilities may be
utilized as a trunk line (main line) for development beyond the boundaries of
the petitioners project, then the Tell City Board of Public Works and Safety
may, at its sole discretion, order changes in the design and construction to
that end. The additional cost of implementation of the change, including design
costs, shall be a matter for negotiation.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.126 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where a new system is connected to the city’s wastewater treatment
facilities, conforms to the city’s design and construction requirements, is
located in a public right-of-way or dedicated public utility easement, and is
accepted by the City Board of Public Works (Tell City Sewer Department) for
maintenance, the petitioner may dedicate the public components of the system to
the city as public improvements after installation. As-built plans for the
completed system, as accepted, shall be filed with the Wastewater
Superintendent and the Plan Commission.
   (B)   When terrain or other conditions require the use of individual lift
stations at each lot then these facilities shall be, and shall remain, the
property of the owner of the lot for the owner’s installation, operation, and
maintenance. “As-built” plans for the completed systems shall be filed with the
city’s Wastewater Superintendent and the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.127 WASTEWATER TREATMENT OPTIONS.
   Options for the method of wastewater treatment for a proposed development
shall be as follows:
   (A)   First option: public wastewater collection and treatment system. Where
the mains of a public wastewater collection and treatment system are located
within the distance specified under I.C.36-9-23-30 from any part of a proposed
development, the entire development shall connect to that public system
according to the specifications in this subchapter. The petitioner shall be
responsible for all costs associated with implementation of the connection but
shall not be responsible for upgrading the existing system to handle the
additional wastewater.
   (B)   Second option: independent collection system sewage pumped to a main
line. Where a trunk line forced main is available, and the owner of the trunk
line will accept the raw sewage for delivery to a treatment plant for final
treatment, then a responsible entity may own and operate the system and collect
and pump the sewage to the main line. Provided; however, the collection and
pumping entity must comply with all of the requirements of §
150.127(A) above, and in addition must have a “certificate of convenience and
necessity” in accordance with I.C. 8-1-2-89.
   (C)   Third option: independent central collection system.  Where connection
to a public wastewater collection and treatment system as described above
cannot be provided, a complete, independent, centralized multi-user wastewater
collection and treatment system shall be provided by the petitioner in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the Indiana State Department of
Health and/or the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. Provided;
however, the collection and treatment entity must comply with all of the
requirements of §
150.127(A) above, and in addition must have a “certificate of convenience and
necessity” in accordance with I.C. 8-1-2-89.
   (D)   Fourth option: individual septic system.  Where connection to any
system as described above cannot be provided, the petitioner shall have a soil
evaluation conducted on each new lot created, and on the remnant of the
original lot if the remnant is less than ten acres of net lot area, for the
purpose of determining the suitability of the soil for construction of a
private on-site sewage treatment system consisting of a septic tank and tile
absorption field. The evaluation shall comply with the minimum standards of the
Indiana State Department of Health. Each lot shall be certified by the Perry
County Health Department as passing the soil evaluation prior to secondary plat
approval. Individual septic systems may be constructed at the time that an
improvement requiring a sanitary sewage connection is built on each lot.
Secondary approval shall not be construed as a guarantee of a permit to
construct a Tertiary Option Septic System.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
WATER SERVICE AND FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE
§ 150.135 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The petitioner shall ensure the installation of a complete potable
water supply system;
   (B)   The water supply system shall comply with standards set by the State
of Indiana for a public potable water supply system;
   (C)   If the system connects to an existing water supply utility then the
system shall comply with the standards of that utility, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   The type and grade of materials used in the construction;
      (2)   The number and location of valves, flushing hydrants and other
essential devices required for efficient management of the system;
      (3)   Provided the materials used in the pipes are non-metallic, then an
approved location wire or other feature shall be installed along with the pipe
to facilitate location of the facilities.
      (4)   The specifications of installation such as depth of burial, bedding
and backfill of pipes, location of infrastructure on the easement or right-of-
way and any other applicable specification;
      (5)   Provided the system will supply water for fire prevention or
mitigation then the number, location, type and grade of fire plugs;
   (D)   Provided the potable water system connects with, or will later be
integrated in, the system of an existing utility, then that utility may
require, at the petitioners expense, a qualified, registered Engineer to
certify that the potable water system complies with all applicable standards
and requirements, including but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   All federal standards and regulations appertaining;
      (2)   All State of Indiana standards and regulations appertaining;
      (3)   All local laws, standards and regulation appertaining, including
the specific requirements of this chapter;
      (4)   All required permits, registrations and tests;
   (E)   Provided the potable water system connects with, or will later be
integrated in, the system of an existing utility, then that utility may require
such security as it deems necessary to provide for compliance of standards and
the operation and maintenance of the system for a period not less than one year
and not to exceed three years following its connection or integration into the
system.
   (F)   Provided the potable water system connects with, or will later be
integrated in, the system of an existing utility, then that utility shall have
the right to, order to be done, be a party to, witness and direct, such tests
of the system it deems necessary both during and after construction.
   (G)   All certifications, registrations, licenses, tests and/or any other
costs associated with proof of compliance shall be the petitioner’s
responsibility and all shall be at the petitioner’s expense.
   (H)   Accurate “as-built” plans and specifications shall be furnished to
the:
      (1)   The City Engineer and/or the Plan Commission, which ever is
applicable;
      (2)   The water utility;
      (3)   The Tell City Board of Public Works and Safety or the County Board
of Commissioners which ever has jurisdiction;
   (I)   When in the judgment of the water utility some portions of the potable
water facilities may be utilized as a trunk line (main line) for development
beyond, or adjacent to, the boundaries of the petitioner’s project then the
water utility may order changes in the design and construction to that end. The
additional cost of implementation of the change, including design costs, shall
be paid by the water utility. The difference in cost shall be a matter of
negotiation, or if no agreement can be reached then the matter shall be settled
by arbitration. If the parties to the dispute are unable to choose an
arbitrator one shall be appointed by the Circuit Court of Perry County.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.136 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Where a new system is connected to the city’s water facilities, conforms to
the city’s design and construction requirements, is located in a public right-
of-way or a dedicated public utility easement, and is accepted by the city, the
petitioner may dedicate the public components of the system to the city, as
public improvements, after installation. As-built plans for the completed
system, as accepted, shall be filed with the city’s utility manager. Fire
hydrants and their connecting facilities shall be considered part of the water
system if they serve the public at large and are not part of a private fire
protection system serving a single lot or building.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.137 INDIVIDUAL WELLS.
   The primary choice of water supply systems shall be a public potable water
system; however, where connection to a potable water supply system is not
possible, an individual water supply, by well, may be provided on each lot in
accordance with the standards of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources
and the Indiana Department of Health.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.138 SEPARATION OF WELL WATER AND POTABLE WATER.
   Where a lot is supplied by both well water, or other source, and water from
the city’s potable water supply system or from a supply system that is in any
manner physically connected to the city’s water supply system, then backflow
protection shall be provided by the petitioner at their expense. The well and
potable water systems shall not be directly connected together. Backflow
prevention facilities must conform to standards set by the Indian Department of
Health and approved by the city’s Utility Service Board (Water Department). The
backflow prevention shall be installed at a location, and in such a manner,
that they are conveniently available for inspection.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE ON POTABLE WATER SYSTEMS
§ 150.145 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   On any potable water supply system installed in an area currently, served
by, or which may be served in the future by the city’s fire department, a
sufficient number of fire hydrants shall be installed by the petitioner at
intervals not exceeding 600 feet from any building lot. Fire hydrants shall be
dry barrel Class A type approved by the city’s Utility Service Board. Fire
hydrants shall be separated from the water main by an operable valve, and shall
be installed, operated and maintained in compliance with the standards of the
city’s Utility Service Board. Provided that the water facilities are accepted
under §
150.136 above, then the fire hydrants and their connecting facilities are part
of the water system accepted.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
ELECTRIC, NATURAL GAS AND COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 150.150 ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   The petitioner shall arrange for the provision of a complete electric
service supply system which provides not less than single phase, three wire,
120/240 volt, 60-cycle electric service, located within dedicated public
rights-of-way or public utility easements.
   (B)   Within the corporate limits of the city, provisions shall be included
for locating street lights at intersections and as otherwise required under the
city’s street light policy.
   (C)   Electric utilities have service territories defined by the Indiana
Utility Regulatory Commission.
   (D)   Within their service territory they may establish their own extension
and development policies in accordance with rules established by their
governing boards. Providing that the policies conform to these rules, and are
adopted and published as the Tariff Terms and Conditions of Service, then no
language contained in this chapter may limit or modify any part of that policy.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.151 NATURAL GAS AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
   The petitioner shall arrange for the provision of a natural gas distribution
system, and telephone, cable television and other communications services
provided they are available. Dedicated public rights-of-way or public utility
easements shall be provided for these services, whether or not they are
available at the time the petition for secondary approval is filed.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
FIRE SUPPRESSION WATER SYSTEMS (NOT POTABLE WATER)
§ 150.160 NON-POTABLE WATER SYSTEMS FOR FIRE SUPPRESSION.
   In special circumstances the petitioner may desire to install water
suppression systems that are not part of the potable water supply system.
   (A)   No part of this system may be connected to the potable water supply
system except through an approved backflow-preventer and in accordance with
Indiana Department of Health standards and regulations.
   (B)   The system shall be designed and certified by a qualified, registered
professional engineer.
   (C)   No part of a private water system for fire suppression will be
eligible for acceptance, for maintenance and operation, by a governmental
agency except by specific legislative action of that agency.
   (D)   The petitioner (developer) may dedicate and plat public easements and
public right of ways for a separate fire suppression system.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS AND STORM WATER MITIGATION
§ 150.170 FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No petition for primary or secondary plat approval, or approval of any
development plan, may be granted until the petitioner has demonstrated
compliance with
Chapter 152, Flood Hazard Regulations.
   (B)   Proof of compliance with
Chapter 152 shall consist of a certification of a registered professional
engineer that the site described in the petition is not within the flood plain
boundary; or
   (C)   Proof of compliance with
Chapter 152 shall consist of a development plan, certified by a registered
professional engineer that by reason of changes in elevation, contour or
proposed drainage mitigation will remove the site from the official description
of the flood plain.
   (D)   Proof of compliance with
Chapter 152 shall consist of a development plan, certified by a registered
professional engineer, proof that the petitioner has obtained all permits,
permissions and certifications necessary from state or federal agencies, and
certification that the development plan will comply with all applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.171 STORM WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No petition for primary or secondary plat approval, or approval of any
development plan, shall be granted until the petitioner has demonstrated
compliance with the City Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Provided that a Board of Public Works, Drainage Utility, Drainage
Board, Drainage District, or other similar agency exists as a government unit,
having jurisdiction and authority over matters of flood hazard and drainage;
then the petitioner shall provide proof of approval from the agency concerning
such matters contained in the petition. The proof shall have the form and
content described herein in Appendix B.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.172 STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEMS ON SITE.
   (A)   Before a petition for primary approval is accepted, the petitioner
(developer) must perform a Storm Water Mitigation Feasibility Study (Storm
Water Drainage Plan), to determine if it is possible to develop the site within
the standards set for storm water disposal.
   (B)   Provided the site is in the current or future jurisdiction of a storm
water utility then the standards set by that utility shall govern. Provided
however there is a conflict with other ordinances, statutes, or regulations
then the most restrictive requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Provided there is no standard or standards for the development of a
Storm Water Mitigation Feasibility Study (Storm Water Drainage Plan) then the
Plan Commission may require that the general methods set forth in “A General
Ordinance Establishing Storm Water Control” document number H-88-52 shall
govern. The developer may petition for variance from specific elements of this
standard, before the Plan Commission, giving full details of the reason for the
variance.
   (D)   Details of the proposed compliance with storm water mitigation
standards will become a major issue in the primary approval of the project.
   (E)   The Plan Commission shall require the certification of the storm water
utility and/or the certification of a registered professional engineer before
primary approval is granted.
   (F)   The Storm Water Mitigation Feasibility Study (Storm Water Drainage
Plan) shall contain:
      (1)   The information required by the City Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   The total rate of water delivered off site;
      (3)   A detailed description of the methods used for mitigation;
      (4)   A detailed description, including maps and drawings of the proposed
infrastructure;
      (5)   Providing the mitigation plan requires the use of natural drainage
then a detailed description of the impact of the development, on the natural
drainage shall be included, including but not limited to the necessary changes
in contour required.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.173 PROVISIONS FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT - STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Feasibility studies or mitigation proposals done prior to primary
approval shall include, in the study area, all adjacent or extended areas which
may have an impact on storm water management.
   (B)   The petitioner (developer) will not be responsible for storm water
mitigation due to future development in these extended areas. Provided however;
the runoff due to the current state of development, in the extended areas, must
be included in the study.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The action of petitioning for and obtaining primary plat approval
shall constitute an express contract between the petitioner and the city, by
and through its Board of Public Works. The dedication of rights-of-way,
streets, alleys, public lands of any type, utility easements and completed
infrastructure shall become final and irrevocable upon primary plat approval.
If the petitioner shall default on this agreement by being adjudged a bankrupt,
or shall in any way default on the terms and conditions of this agreement, then
any uncompleted infrastructure may be adjudged to be a public nuisance and
shall be treated accordingly.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined, for each offence, an amount determined by
ordinance of the Common Council of the city. A separate offence shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs, or continues.
Imposition of fines shall not be concurrent with actions taken under division
(A) above.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
APPENDIX A: CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS
Section
   
1.   Curb and gutter details
   
2.   Preferred curb and gutter details
SECTION 1. CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS.
   The following figures are non-preferred types and are to be used only with
the written permission of the Superintendent of the Tell City Street Department
for cases where matching or maintenance of existing curb and gutter is
required. See
Appendix A, Section 2 for preferred curb types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9177049d0238be3d1dba718a76e1117ae9a550b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1614.jpg]
 
SECTION 2. PREFERRED CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS.
Subdivision Control Ordinance Figure 2
Curb Type D
Free Standing Curb
* Height of curb may vary depending on special conditions such as incidence of
rock, or other underground obstruction. Permission for variance of height may
only be granted in writing, by the Superintendent of the Tell City Street
Department of his or her delegate.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9177049d0238be3d1dba718a76e1117ae9a550b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1617.jpg]
 
APPENDIX B: PROOF OF AGREEMENT UTILITIES
Section
   
1.   Proof of agreements to furnish and maintain infrastructure or services
   
2.   Standard wording for proof of agreement; primary plat approval (entity
providing its own infrastructure)
   
3.   Standard wording for proof of agreement; primary plat approval (entity
accepting infrastructure provided by the developer) (water)
   
4.   Standard wording for proof of agreement; primary plat approval (entity
accepting infrastructure provided by the developer) (sewer)
   
5.   Standard wording for proof of agreement; primary plat approval (entity
accepting infrastructure provided by the developer) (storm water)
   
6.   Standard wording for proof of agreement; primary plat approval (entity
accepting infrastructure provided by the developer) (Street Department)
SECTION 1. PROOF OF AGREEMENTS TO FURNISH AND MAINTAIN INFRASTRUCTURE OR
SERVICES.
   (A)   The policies of utilities or government agencies may vary widely when
furnishing or accepting public infrastructure for a new development. Some
utilities or providers of infrastructure may require the developer to install
the infrastructure at the developer’s expense and to maintain the
infrastructure for a fixed period of time before acceptance. Other providers of
infrastructure will install the infrastructure at their own expense but may
require an Aid to Construction Deposit or other security, which may be either
refundable or non refundable according to their particular policy.
   (B)   It is not the duty of the Plan Commission to negotiate or define
agreements between the developer and the utility or other provider of
infrastructure or services. It is, however, the duty of the Plan Commission to
ensure that utility, transportation and other commonly required or desired
infrastructure is provided under conditions acceptable to potential future
owners of properties within the development. To that end the developer will
secure certifications appropriately issued and signed by a responsible officer
or “attorney in fact” of the entity issuing the certification. The
certification shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the Developer of Record before the Plan Commission;
      (2)   The Docket Number of the case before the Plan Commission;
      (3)   The name of the Development before the Plan Commission;
      (4)   The name of the entity issuing the certification;
      (5)   A certification that the utility or other infrastructure or service
has the regulatory jurisdiction over the geographical area of the development;
      (6)   An adequate description of the infrastructure and/or service to be
provided;
      (7)   A certification that the construction standards are in accordance
with the standard policies of the utility or other provider of infrastructure
or services, provided that in no case shall the construction standards be less
than those required by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, the Indiana
Health Department, any statutory standards or Tell City Code Title 15,
Ch. 150 or the City Zoning Ordinance;
      (8)   A certification that the subject infrastructure will be provided
without any additional cost to the tax payers of the city;
      (9)   A certification that the subject infrastructure or service will be
furnished in due course for the use of future owners of the development;
      (10)   A certification that the service or infrastructure will be
provided under standard policies of the entity and that services will be
provided under the standard tariffs of the entity without any surcharge or
special fees directly related to this case and location. A certification that
the signatory is fully advised of the premises and understands the requirements
of the certification;
      (11)   A certification that the person or persons executing the
certification are authorized to execute the certification. Alternately the
signatory may attach a Power of Attorney in Fact or similar legal document.
      (12)   Certifications shall be in the general form as provided as example
wording in Appendix B, Sections 2 through 6 or other certification and forms
that may be required.
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
SECTION 2. STANDARD WORDING FOR PROOF OF AGREEMENT; PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL
(ENTITY PROVIDING ITS OWN INFRASTRUCTURE).
[BEFORE THE TELL CITY ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION]
[Docket 200X-XXXX-PP]
[Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc.]
[Ribber Bend North Phase II]
“Tell City Electric Department, a Municipal Electric Department under I.C. 8-
1.5-3-3(a)(3) hereby certifies that it has jurisdiction to furnish electric
service to the development area described in Plan Commission Docket 200X-XXXX-
PP known as Ribber Bend North. Ribber Bend North is a Residential Addition to
the City of Tell City, Indiana.
We hereby further certify that there is a binding agreement between the Tell
City Electric Department and Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc., an Indiana
Corporation, to provide electric services and other incidental service, in
accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   Tell City Electric Department will accept ownership of and/or construct
in due course all necessary infrastructure required to provide its tariff
services to lots X9 through lots X 99 in the development; provided, that the
development receives Secondary Approval, under Tell City Code
Chapter 150, and is duly recorded; provided further:
      a.   The construction standards shall be in accordance with the standard
policies of the utility or other provider of infrastructure or services
provided that in no case shall the construction standards be less than those
required by Tell City Title 15,
Chapter 150 or the City Zoning Ordinance or by the current version of the
National Electric Safety Code;
      b.   The subject infrastructure will be provided without any additional
cost to the tax payers of the City of Tell City, or customers of the utility,
unless a cooperative contribution is required to provide infrastructure
sufficient to provide service to other current or future developments not
incorporated in this particular case;
      c.   The subject infrastructure and/or service will be furnished and
delivered in due course for the use of future owners of the development and
customers of the utility;
      d.   The subject service or infrastructure will be provided under
standard policies of the Tell City Electric Department, and the subject
services will be provided under its standard tariffs without any surcharge or
special fees directly related to this case and location.
   2.   Tell City Electric Department will ensure that maintenance of the
infrastructure is adequate and continuous during construction and for a
suitable period thereafter.
   3.   The design of the subject infrastructure has given due consideration to
capacity and location, including easements, for adjacent properties whether
currently developed or likely to be developed in the future.
As signatory to this document I understand that this document is intended as
material proof of a binding agreement with the developer to be relied on by the
Plan Commission in its deliberations in the subject Case/Docket.
As signatory to this document I hereby certify that I am fully informed of the
premises and understand the requirements. I further certify that I have full
and unrestricted authority to execute this document.
[A duly executed resolution of the Board of Directors of libber Bend Electric
Department Is attached and it authorizes me to sign this document]
Executed              , 200X
John Doe, Superintendent
Tell City Electric Department”
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
SECTION 3. STANDARD WORDING FOR PROOF OF AGREEMENT; PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL
(ENTITY ACCEPTING INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER) (WATER).
(BEFORE THE TELL CITY ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION]
[Docket 200X-XXXX-PP]
[Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc.]
[Ribber Bend North Phase II]
“Tell City Water Department, a Municipal Water Department under I.C. 8-1.5-3-3
(a)(2) hereby certifies that it has jurisdiction to furnish potable Water
service to the development area described in Plan Commission Docket 200X-XXXX-
PP known as Ribber Bend North. Ribber Bend North is a Residential Addition to
the City of Tell City, Indiana.
We hereby further certify that there is a binding agreement between the Tell
City Water Department and Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc., an Indiana
Corporation, to provide potable Water services and other incidental service, in
accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   Tell City Water Department will accept ownership and in due course of
all necessary infrastructure required to provide its tariff services to lots X9
through lots X 99 in the development; provided, that the development receives
secondary approval and is duly recorded; provided further:
      a.   The construction standards shall be in accordance with the standard
policies of the utility or other provider of infrastructure or services
provided that in no case shall the construction standards be less than those
required by Tell City Title 15,
Chapter 150 or Code
154;
      b.   The subject infrastructure will be provided without any additional
cost to the tax payers of the City of Tell City, or customers of the utility,
unless a cooperative contribution is required to provide infrastructure
sufficient to provide service to other current or future developments not
incorporated in this particular case;
      c.   The subject infrastructure and/or service will be furnished and
delivered in due course for the use of future owners of the development and
customers of the utility;
      d.   The subject service or infrastructure will be provided under
standard policies of the Tell City Water Department, and the subject services
will be provided under its standard tariffs without any surcharge or special
fees directly related to this case and location.
   2.   Tell City Water Department will ensure that maintenance of the
infrastructure is adequate and continues during construction and for a suitable
period thereafter.
   3.   The design of the subject infrastructure has given due consideration to
capacity and location, including easements, for adjacent properties whether
currently developed or likely to be developed in the future.
As signatory to this document I understand that this document is intended as
material proof of a binding agreement with the developer to be relied on by the
Plan Commission in its deliberations in the subject Case/Docket.
As signatory to this document I hereby certify that I am fully informed of the
premises and understand the requirements. I further certify that I have full
and unrestricted authority to execute this document.
[A duly executed resolution of the Board of Directors of Bibber Bend Water
Department is attached and it authorizes me to sign this document]
Executed                 , 200X
John Doe, Superintendent
Tell City Water Department”
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
SECTION 4. STANDARD WORDING FOR PROOF OF AGREEMENT; PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL
(ENTITY ACCEPTING INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER) (SEWER).
[BEFORE THE TELL CITY ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION]
[Docket 200X-XXXX-PP]
[Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc.]
[Ribber Bend North Phase II]
“Tell City Sewer Department, a Municipal Sewer Department under I.C. 8-1.5-3-3
(a) (1) hereby certifies that it has jurisdiction to furnish Sanitary Sewer and
Waste Water Service to the development area described in Plan Commission Docket
200X-XXXX-PP known as Ribber Bend North. Ribber Bend North is a Residential
Addition to the City of Tell City, Indiana.
We hereby further certify that there is a binding agreement between the Tell
City Sewer Department and Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc., an Indiana
Corporation, to provide Sanitary Sewer and Waste Water Services and other
incidental service, in accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   Tell City Sewer Department will accept ownership and in due course of
all necessary infrastructure required to provide its tariff services to lots X9
through lots X 99 in the development; provided, that the development receives
secondary approval and is duly recorded; provided further:
      a.   The construction standards shall be in accordance with the standard
policies of the utility or other provider of infrastructure or services
provided that in no case shall the construction standards be less than those
required by Tell City Title 15,
Chapter 150 or Code
154;
      b.   The subject infrastructure will be provided without any additional
cost to the tax payers of the City of Tell City, or customers of the utility„
unless a cooperative contribution is required to provide infrastructure
sufficient to provide service to other current or future developments not
incorporated in this particular case;
      c.   The subject infrastructure and/or service will be furnished and
delivered in due course for the use of future owners of the development and
customers of the utility;
      d.   The subject service or infrastructure will be provided under
standard policies of the Tell City Sewer Department, and the subject services
will be provided under its standard tariffs without any surcharge or special
fees directly related to this case and location.
   2.   Tell City Sewer Department will ensure that maintenance of the
infrastructure is adequate and continues during construction and for a suitable
period thereafter.
   3.   The design of the subject infrastructure has given due consideration to
capacity and location, including easements, for adjacent properties whether
currently developed or likely to be developed in the future.
   As signatory to this document I understand that this document is intended as
material proof of a binding agreement with the developer to be relied on by the
Plan Commission in its deliberations in the subject Case/Docket.
   As signatory to this document I hereby certify that I am fully informed of
the premises and understand the requirements. I further certify that I have
full and unrestricted authority to execute this document.
   [A duly executed resolution of the Board of Directors of Bibber Bend Sewer
Department (The Tell City Board of Public Works) is attached and it authorizes
me to sign this document]
Executed                  , 200X
John Doe, Superintendent
Tell City Sewer Department”
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
SECTION 5. STANDARD WORDING FOR PROOF OF AGREEMENT; PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL
(ENTITY ACCEPTING INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER) (STORM WATER).
[BEFORE THE TELL CITY ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION]
[Docket 200X-XXXX-PP]
[Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc.]
[Ribber Bend North Phase II]
In the absence of a storm water utility in the city of Tell City the function
of Storm Water Control is incorporated in the jurisdiction of the Board of
Public Works by and through the Sewer Department of Tell City, organized
pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-3(a)(1) and the Street Department of Tell City
organized under I.C. 36-4-4-3, 36-4-9-2 and 36-4-9-5(1). These entities have
joint and several responsibilities for the control of storm water within the
City of Tell City. Therefore the Tell City Board of Public Works certifies that
it has jurisdiction to furnish Sanitary Storm Water Services to the development
area described in Plan Commission Docket 200X-XXXX-PP known as Ribber Bend
North. Ribber Bend North is a Residential Developed Addition to the City of
Tell City, Indiana.
The undersigned hereby further certifies that there is a binding agreement
between the Tell City Board of Public Works and Muddy Creek Realty Company
Inc., an Indiana Corporation, to provide Storm Water Services and other
incidental service, in accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   Tell City Board of Public Works will accept ownership of and in due
course provide all necessary infrastructure required to provide storm water
services to lots X9 through lots X 99 in the development; provided, that the
development receives secondary approval and is duly recorded; provided further:
      a.   The construction standards shall be in accordance with the standard
policies of the entities named above or other provider of infrastructure or
services provided that in no case shall the construction standards and services
be less than those required by Tell City Title 15,
Chapter 150 and or the City Zoning Ordinance;
      b.   The subject infrastructure will be provided without any additional
cost to the tax payers of the City of Tell City, or customers of the utility,
unless a cooperative contribution is required to provide infrastructure
sufficient to provide service to other current or future developments not
incorporated in this particular case;
      c.   The subject infrastructure and/or service will be furnished and
delivered in due course for the use of future owners of the development;
      d.   The subject service or infrastructure will be provided under
standard policies of the entities under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public
Works, and the subject services will be provided under its standard tariffs
without any surcharge or special fees directly related to this case and
location.
   2.   Entities under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works will
ensure that maintenance of the infrastructure is adequate and continues during
construction and for a suitable period thereafter.
   3.   The design of the subject infrastructure has given due consideration to
capacity and location, including adequate easements, for adjacent properties
whether currently developed or likely to be developed in the future.
As signatory to this document I understand that this document is intended as
material proof of a binding agreement with the developer to be relied on by the
Plan Commission in its deliberations in the subject Case/Docket.
As signatory to this document I hereby certify that I am fully informed of the
premises and understand the requirements. I further certify that I have full
and unrestricted authority to execute this document.
[A duly executed resolution of the Board of The Tell City Board of Public Works
is attached and it authorizes me to sign this document]
John/Jane Doe Chairman
Tell City Board of Public Works   Executed             , 200X
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
SECTION 6. STANDARD WORDING FOR PROOF OF AGREEMENT; PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL
(ENTITY ACCEPTING INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER) (STREET
DEPARTMENT).
[BEFORE THE TELL CITY ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION]
[Docket 200X-XXXX-PP]
[Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc.]
[Ribber Bend North Phase II]
“Tell City Street Department, a Municipal Street Department Street Department
of Tell City organized under I.C. 36-4-4-3, 36-4-9-2 and 36-4-9-5(1), is
designated and has the duty to own, operate and maintain designated streets and
alleys within the City of Tell City. Therefore the Tell City Street Department
certifies that it has Jurisdiction to furnish Street and Alley Services to the
development area described in Plan Commission Docket 200X-XXXX-PP known as
Ribber Bend North. Ribber Bend North is a Residential Developed Addition to the
City of Tell City, Indiana.
The undersigned hereby further certifies that there is a binding agreement
between the Tell City Street Department and Muddy Creek Realty Company Inc., an
Indiana Corporation, to provide Street and Alley Services and other incidental
service, in accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   Tell City Board of Public Works will accept ownership of and in due
course provide all necessary infrastructure required to provide street and
alley services to lots X9 through lots X 99 in the development; provided, that
the development receives secondary approval and is duly recorded; provided
further:
      a.   The construction standards shall be in accordance with the standard
policies of the entities named above or other provider of infrastructure or
services provided that in no case shall the construction standards and services
be less than those required by Tell City Title 15,
Chapter 150 and/or the City Zoning Ordinance;
      b.   The subject infrastructure will be provided without any additional
cost to the tax payers of the City of Tell City, or customers of the utility,
unless a cooperative contribution is required to provide infrastructure
sufficient to provide service to other current or future developments not
incorporated in this particular case;
      c.   The subject infrastructure and/or service will be furnished and
delivered in due course for the use of future owners of the development;
      d.   The subject service or infrastructure will be provided under
standard policies of the Street Department, and the subject services will be
provided without any surcharge or special fees directly related to this case
and location.
   2.   Entities under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works will
ensure that maintenance of the infrastructure is adequate and continues during
construction and for a suitable period thereafter.
   3.   The design of the subject infrastructure has given due consideration to
capacity and location, including adequate easements, for adjacent properties,
whether currently developed or likely to be developed in the future.
As signatory to this document I understand that this document is intended as
material proof of a binding agreement with the developer to be relied on by the
Plan Commission in its deliberations in the subject Case/Docket.
As signatory to this document I hereby certify that I am fully informed of the
premises and understand the requirements. I further certify that I have full
and unrestricted authority to execute this document.
[A duly executed resolution of the Board of The Tell City Board of Public Works
is attached and it authorizes me to sign this document]
John Doe, Superintendent
Tell City Street Department   Executed             ,200X
(Ord. 970, passed 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Names of streets and building numbering
   
151.02   Installation of service entrances for electric and water service
connections
   
151.03   City Inspector
Building Code
   
151.15   Title
   
151.16   Purpose
   
151.17   Authority
   
151.18   Scope
   
151.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.20   Application for permits
   
151.21   Permit required
   
151.22   Other ordinances
   
151.23   Permit fees
   
151.24   Review of application
   
151.25   Inspections
   
151.26   Entry
   
151.27   Stop order
   
151.28   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.29   Workmanship
   
151.30   Establishment of Board of Appeals and right of appeal
   
151.31   Remedies
   
151.32   Violations
   
151.33   Contractor must obtain permit
Unsafe Buildings; Nuisance Buildings
   
151.45   Definitions
   
151.46   Unsafe Building Law established
   
151.47   Adoption of state statutes
   
151.48   Repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal of unsafe buildings
   
151.49   City Building Inspector
   
151.50   Workmanship
   
151.51   Unsafe Building Fund
   
151.52   Nuisance buildings
   
151.53   Violations
Heating, Ventilation, Electrical and Plumbing Installation and Maintenance
   
151.65   Application for license and examination
   
151.66   Conformance to Building Code required
   
151.67   Boards of Examination
   
151.68   Revocation of license
   
151.69   Registration of plumbers required
   
151.70   Separate wiring, heating and plumbing permits required
   
151.71   Nonresident contractors
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 NAMES OF STREETS AND BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   All buildings and houses now erected or to be hereafter erected and
fronting on the streets of the city shall be numbered according to the system
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The name of each structure in the city shall be painted or printed on
some suitable material, and of a size sufficient to admit the name of the
street in plain letters, and fastened securely at one corner of each street
crossing to any suitable pole, corner building or other suitable object or
structure.
   (C)   On streets running north and south and commencing at South Boundary
Street, 100 numbers shall be assigned to the square, or space equaling a
square, between cross streets, and the numbers shall be assigned whether the
lots fronting on the streets are built on or not, and be so designated when
built upon. The even numbers shall be placed upon the buildings on the east
side and the odd numbers on the west side of all north and south streets,
beginning with numbers one and two at South Boundary Street as a basis and
numbering thence north and south, adding 100 to the serial at the farthest
crossing of each cross street until the north and south boundary of the city or
termini of the streets are reached. On streets running east and west and
commencing at the Ohio River on Lafayette Streets as a basis, 100 numbers shall
be assigned to like spaces described for north and south streets and according
to the same system. The odd numbers shall be placed upon buildings on the south
side and the even numbers upon those of the north side of the streets,
beginning with numbers one and two and continuing east, adding 100 to the
serial at the farthest crossing of cross streets until the city limits or
termini of streets are reached. Each number shall represent 20 feet frontage.
   (D)   Half numbers may be placed over stairways in any business building or
tenement house in which occupancy of the upper story is separated and distinct
from the ground floor.
   (E)   All numbers placed upon buildings or houses under this section shall
be painted or stamped in some durable metal or other material, or painted in a
conspicuous place on the building or house, of a size not less than three
inches by two inches square. Provided, the owner or occupant of any house or
building may place thereon a more ornamental or costly number, but the same
shall not be smaller or of a less conspicuous character than as above
described.
   (F)   The owner of every house or building fronting on any street of the
city, upon being informed of the proper number of the same, is hereby required
to place or cause to be placed in some conspicuous place on the outside front
thereof a number plainly indicating by appropriate figures the proper and
assigned number of the same, of the size and material specified in division (E)
above. If the number shall become defaced, removed, destroyed or so worn as not
to be plainly visible, the owner or the building shall replace the same. Any
person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to number his or her house or building
as herein specified or required, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to
replace any worn or defaced number on his or her property, shall be deemed to
have violated the provisions of this section, and upon conviction thereof
before the Mayor, shall be fined. Each day of the failure, neglect or refusal
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense, and as the same shall be
prosecuted and punished. Provided, however, that in case of the failure,
neglect or refusal the city, by and through its proper officials, shall have
the right to place or replace the numbers at the expense of the owner or owners
thereof and collect the cost to be placed upon the tax duplicate or by suit in
any court or competent jurisdiction in the name of the city.
(Ord. 128, passed 1-2-1915)
   (G)   Any person who shall take down, alter, destroy or conceal any number
assigned to and placed upon any house or building, or who shall place or
substitute an erroneous or improper number to be retained on his or her house
or building, or who shall take down, break, deface, destroy or conceal any
street name painted or posted in the city shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined.
(`81 Code, § 20-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.02 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE ENTRANCES FOR ELECTRIC AND WATER SERVICE
CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRIC SERVICE ENTRANCE. That part of the house wiring necessary to
connect the interior wiring to the service lines of the City Electric
Department.
      WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. That part of the plumbing necessary to connect
the interior piping to the mains of the City Water Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
install any service entrance for electric or water service until approved
application for service has first been secured from the City Light Department
or the City Water Department.
   (C)   All service entrances shall be installed according to the rules and
regulations of the respective departments of the city pertaining to the
electric and water installations.
   (D)   That any electrician or plumber making any service entrance without
first securing the approved application therefor shall have his or her license
to do electrical or plumbing work in the city revoked by the Mayor and Common
Council, upon proof of the violation of the provisions of this section.
(`81 Code, §7-1) (Ord. 271, passed 3-11-1947)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.03 CITY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is established within the city the office of City Inspector, and
the Mayor, with the approval of the Common Council, shall appoint some suitable
person to be City Inspector, who shall serve as the same until his or her
successor shall be appointed and qualified. Before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, the City Inspector shall take and subscribe an oath that he
or she will support the Constitution of the United States and of the state, and
that he or she will faithfully perform all of his or her official duties. He or
she shall also execute a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $2,000 payable
to the city, and conditioned that he or she will faithfully perform all the
duties of his or her office.
   (B)   The City Inspector shall maintain an office in the City Hall, and
during the time of his or her employment shall be in his or her office when not
on inspection trips in the city. The City Inspector shall interview all
applicants for licenses in the various trades in which the ordinances of the
city require the applicant to be licensed; he or she shall issue all permits
covering buildings, plumbing and electrical work; he or she shall inspect all
buildings and installation of plumbing and electrical work. The City Inspector
shall make monthly reports to the Common Council on or before its first regular
meeting of each month of all licenses issued and fees collected, permits issued
and fees collected, inspections made and fees collected, and any and all
violations of the city ordinances pertaining to building, plumbing and
electrical work, and shall pay over to the clerk-treasurer all licenses and
fees received and collected during the preceding month. The monthly reports for
the month preceding shall show the number of permits and licenses issued and
the amounts charged therefor, together with a description and location of each
building, plumbing and electrical work, and the name of the person to whom the
permit is issued. He or she shall keep a description and record of the number,
class, size and cost of every building or structure erected or repaired, and
all electrical and plumbing work in the city during his or her term of office
for which permits were issued, and shall report the same to the Common Council
annually.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Inspector to inspect every building
and installation of plumbing and electrical work which may hereafter be in the
course of construction or alteration within the limits of the city, and to see
that the building or structure or electrical and plumbing work is constructed
or altered according to the provisions of the ordinances of the city pertaining
to the construction or alteration, and the laws of the state and regulations
issued in pursuance thereto and to perform all other duties devolving upon him
or her by law or by ordinances now or hereafter in force in this city. If the
Inspector is furnished with a written notice by the owner, architect,
contractor or contractors of any building, electrical or plumbing work to
inspect the building, electrical or plumbing work in process of construction or
alteration, he or she shall do so without delay. The City Inspector shall also,
when requested, furnish preliminary information relative to the application or
interpretation of any of the provisions of the ordinances of the city
pertaining to building, electrical or plumbing work, when the same is needed in
the preparation of plans.
   (D)   That to assist the City Inspector in the examination of applicants for
various city licenses a committee consisting of one member of the Common
Council, to be named by the City Mayor, and the Head of the City Department
more intimately connected with the trade for which the license is applied shall
make an examination to determine the qualification and skill of the applicant
for the trade or occupation for which he or she seeks a license. All
examinations given the applicant should be based on the code or regulations of
the State Administrative Council or national codes pertaining to his or her
trade, and before any license is issued it should be shown that the applicant
has a basic knowledge of the codes and regulations.
(`81 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 304, passed - - )
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Building Code of the City of Tell City, Indiana, and may be
cited as the same.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY.
   The City Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in this
subchapter, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the City Building Inspector or any other officer of
the city, this shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of
determining whether this subchapter has been complied with, and no provision
shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this
subchapter shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce this subchapter in an arbitrary or discriminatory
manner.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair (including repair to and replacement of roofs), and additions to all
buildings and structures, other than fences, in the city.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988; Am. Ord. 1143, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 151.19 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following articles of IAC Title 675, are hereby
incorporated by reference in this subchapter, and shall include later
amendments to those articles as the same are published in the State Register or
the State Administrative Code, with effective dates as fixed therein.
      (1)   For building codes, the following codes and standards shall be
adopted:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code;
      (2)   For one- and two-family dwelling codes, the following codes and
standards shall be adopted:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and amendments; and
         (c)   Standards for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   The State Plumbing Code shall be adopted.
      (4)   For electrical codes, the following codes shall be adopted:
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Healthcare Facilities.
      (5)   The State Mechanical Code shall be adopted.
      (6)   For energy conservation codes, the following codes shall be
adopted:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   The State Swimming Pool Code shall be adopted.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the Office of the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.20 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the City Building Inspector before issuance of a permit
for construction covered by the design release.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning any activity described in §
151.18 of the city code, the cost of which exceeds $4,000, using forms
furnished by the Building Inspector, and which fees shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988; Am. Ord. 1046, passed 5-7-2012; Am. Ord. 1143,
passed 5-7-2018)
§ 151.22 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in the ordinances.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.23 PERMIT FEES.
   Whenever an owner of real estate desires to construct or desires to build a
new structure or construct additions to existing structures within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city, that applicant or its agent must pay the following
fees:
Type of Construction; Required Permit Fee
Type of Construction; Required Permit  Fee
Construction Permits
Single-family dwelling                 $75 plus $.10 per square foot of the
                                       building
Two-family dwelling                    $150 plus $.10 per square foot of the
                                       building
                                       $30 per room for up to three rooms; $75
Additions to existing one- and two-    for over three rooms, plus $.10 per
family dwellings                       square foot of the total area of the new
                                       addition
Detached garages and carports (applies $30 for one- and two-car garages, with
only if the garage or carport is not   an additional $7.50 charge for those
constructed at the same time as the    detached garages and carports which have
principally permitted use)             room for more than two cars
Multi-purpose structures such as yard  $30
barns (portable or stationary)
Swimming pools (includes in-ground and $25 plus $.10 per square foot of the
above- ground); applies only to        square footage covered by the swimming
swimming pools with a depth of more    pool including any concrete aprons and/
than two feet and with a diameter and/ or decks and/or patio areas surrounding
or width of more than ten feet         and/or adjacent to the pool
All permitted accessory uses in all
residential districts and mixed use
district except composting, off-street $10
parking of recreational vehicles and
off-street parking and loading
All permitted accessory uses in        $25
commercial and industrial districts
 
Type of Construction; Required to Permit Fee
Type of Construction; Required to       Fee
Permit
Multi-family dwelling, apartment        Each building is $75 for the first unit
buildings, condominiums, cooperative    and $35 for each unit thereafter, plus
buildings, mobile homes in parks or any $.10 per square foot for each building
other type of multi-family housing
Industrial and commercial buildings     $200 for each building plus $.10 per
                                        square foot
Additions to industrial and commercial  $75 plus $.10 for each foot of the new
buildings                               addition
Off-street parking lots operated by any
entity other than local, state or       $75 plus $2 per parking space
federal government
All work described in §
151.18 of the city code, the cost of    $20
which exceeds $4,000
Demolition of Building Structures
Duration of demolition permit is for six months from date of issuance
Principal buildings                     $35
Accessory buildings                     $20
Temporary Permits
Temporary improvement location permit   $75
Temporary certificate of occupancy      $35
Moving or Changing Location of Buildings
Principal buildings                     $75
Accessory buildings                     $30
Sign Permits
Up to 32 square feet of sign            $15 plus $20 per sign
Over 32 square feet                     $15 plus $20 plus $1.50 per square foot
                                        of sign which exceeds 32 square feet
Non-projecting signs up to 32 square    $15 per sign plus $20
feet
Non-projecting signs over 32 square     $15 plus $20 plus $1.50 per square foot
feet                                    of sign over 32 square feet
 
 
Type of Construction; Required Permit Fee
Certificate of Occupancy Fees
One- and two-family residences        $40
Multi-family residential              $75
Commercial and industrial             $100
Conditional use                       $75
Accessory use                         $5
 
(Ord. 822, passed 12-14-1998; Am. Ord. 1045, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1143,
passed 5-7-2018)
§ 151.24 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, including prefabricated and
mobile homes;
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement of the structure or flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.25 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the permit holder or his or her
agent shall notify the Building Inspector in writing when construction
commences on the project. The permit holder or his or her agent shall make
written application to the Building Inspector from time to time for the
necessary inspections of the work being done as are necessary to insure full
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
Reinspection of work found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection are
subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in this subchapter.
Work shall not be done on any part of the building or structure beyond the
point indicated in each successive inspection without the permit holder or his
or her agent first obtaining the written approval of the Building Inspector.
§ 151.26 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.27 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be
done, and any persons working shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by
the Building Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.28 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless
the building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.29 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF APPEALS AND RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Appeals to hear appeals from
decisions of the City Building Inspector. Such Board shall be appointed by the
Mayor and shall consist of an odd number of persons, consisting of at least
five, and such persons shall consist of those members of the City Plan
Commission who do not hold elective office. In the event there are not enough
such members of the Plan Commission to fill this Board of Appeals, then the
Mayor may make such appointments to the Board as is necessary to complete the
Board, provided however that no such Board members shall hold elective office.
The terms of office of said Board of Appeals shall be for a period of one year,
provided however that the initial terms of such Board members shall expire on
December 31, 2005.
   (B)   All persons shall have the right to appeal the city building
inspector's decision, first through the Board of Appeals established in the
previous section of this section and then to the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-
7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 927, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.31 REMEDIES.
   The Building Inspector shall, in the name of the city, bring actions in the
County Circuit Court for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of
and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the Building
Inspector, and any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with
an action to recover the penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.32 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the city or cause or permit the
same to be done contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of this subchapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed by the Building
Inspector, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by
the Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of this subchapter,
for each violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation shall
be fined. Each day of the unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this section shall constitute a separate offense. The city shall be
entitled to reimbursement of its reasonable attorney fees, costs and expenses
incurred in enforcing the provisions of this subchapter if any person, firm or
corporation is found to have violated the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 650, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.33 CONTRACTOR MUST OBTAIN PERMIT.
   All building permits required by the city shall be applied for and obtained
by the contractor performing the work for which the permit is being issued.
Provided, however, that if the property owner shall state under the penalties
for perjury that the property owner is personally doing all of such work, with
only unpaid volunteer labor, then the property owner may obtain the permit.
(Ord. 1143, passed 5-7-2018)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS; NUISANCE BUILDINGS
§ 151.45 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if set forth in full.
   (B)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the city by adding the following definition:
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that the conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public
or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
sufficient width or size or is not arranged to provide safe and adequate means
of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or other
means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe so as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   The stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due to all
dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working stress or
stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
      (4)   The building has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood or
by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or stability
thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than
the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location.
      (5)   Any portion, member or appurtenance of the building is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (6)   Any portion of the building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for the buildings.
      (7)   Any portion of the building has wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
      (8)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay, faulty construction, the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building, or the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation, or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   The building or structure or any portion thereof is manifestly
unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   The exterior walls or other vertical structural members list, lean
or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (11)   The building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33%
or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings.
      (12)   The building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons for the
purpose of committing unlawful acts.
      (13)   The building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of the
county, or of any law or ordinance of the state or county relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings.
      (14)   The structure, whether or not erected in accordance with all
applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting part, member or
portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or portion less than
66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or characteristics, or weather-
resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly
constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   The building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate light, air or sanitation facilities or
otherwise, is determined by the County Sanitation Officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that is likely to cause sickness
or disease.
      (16)   The building or structure, because of obsolescence, dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-
resistive constriction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections or heating
apparatus or other cause, is determined by the City Fire Marshal to be a fire
hazard.
      (17)   Any portion of a building or structure that remains on a site
after demolition or destruction, or any building or structure that is abandoned
for a period in excess of six months, so as to constitute an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.46 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ESTABLISHED.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 and amendments thereto, there is hereby
established the City Unsafe Building law.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.47 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, and amendments thereto, is hereby
incorporated by reference in the City Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings
within the city for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings
shall be governed by the Law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the
event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C.
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall
control.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.48 REPAIR, REHABILITATION, DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection by the City Building Inspector to be unsafe as defined in this
subchapter are hereby declared to be unsafe, as defined in §
151.45, and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.49 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector, as Chief Administrative Officer of the
Department of Planning and Development, shall be authorized to administer and
to proceed under the provisions of the Unsafe Building Law in ordering the
repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or
as specified hereafter.
   (B)   Whenever in the building regulations of the city or in the City Unsafe
Building Law it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other office of
the Department of Building and Zoning, this shall be construed to give the
officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by this subchapter have been complied with; and no provisions shall
be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what the
regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed
by this subchapter, or to enforce the provisions of this subchapter in any
arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.50 WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according
to the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (B)   The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3 and
amendments thereto, adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, shall be considered standard and acceptable practice for all
matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant to this subchapter
by the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.51 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
city in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
§ 151.52 NUISANCE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that the following paragraphs shall each
constitute a common nuisance within the corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Buildings and structures which by their physical condition are
obviously injurious to the health of individuals who may enter upon the real
estate upon which the building or structure is located, and those buildings and
structures whose physical exterior appearance is offensive to any of the
following senses: sight, smell and hearing;
      (2)   Buildings and structures which have been damaged by virtue of any
natural disasters including, but not limited to, for example, floods, fires,
tornadoes, and electrical thunderstorms, and have not been repaired or razed
within a reasonable period of time after the damage; and/or
      (3)   Real estate which, although in compliance with all other ordinances
and statutes of the city and the state, respectively, because of the location
of items of personal property on the real estate are offensive to any of the
following senses: sight, smell and hearing.
   (B)   Those buildings and structures and tracts of real estate, as defined
in divisions (A)(1) through (3) above, are a common nuisance and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal at the expense of the
owner of the real estate.
(Ord. 688, passed 1-21-1991)
§ 151.53 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector.
Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall
commit a Class C Violation for each day the violation continues. The city shall
be entitled to reimbursement of its reasonable attorney fees, costs and
expenses incurred in enforcing the provisions of this subchapter if any person,
firm or corporation is found to have violated the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-30-1988)
HEATING, VENTILATION, ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 151.65 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to actively engage in the
business of heating and ventilating or electrical wiring in the city and
jurisdictional area, shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer an application
for a license giving the name and place of business of the individual, firm or
corporation of which the applicant is a member. The application shall state
that the applicant is a master of his or her trade, and that he or she is
willing to be governed in all respects by all rules and regulations that have
heretofore been or may hereafter be adopted by the city pertaining to the above
set out businesses.
   (B)   Each applicant shall, at the time of filing his or her application,
agree to appear before the Examining Board pertaining to his or her respective
business, composed as set forth in §
151.67, for examination of his or her qualifications and experience in the
business, provided that in the event the applicant is a firm or corporation,
some member of the firm or officer of the corporation shall appear before the
Examining Board. After an examination, which may be written or oral, the
applicant shall be notified within five days of the results with the
recommendation of the Examining Board as to whether the license shall be
granted or denied.
   (C)   Upon receiving the results of the examination, the applicant shall, if
the recommendation of the Examining Board is to grant the license, deposit with
the Clerk-Treasurer a bond with two or more residents of the city as sureties
thereon, and a reputable surety company to be approved by the Common Council,
at the time of the granting of the license as recommended by the Examining
Board, in the sum of $1,000, conditioned that the applicant will indemnify and
save harmless the city from all liability and damages caused by his or her
negligence or carelessness in the performance of his or her work at the trade
in which the applicant is licensed; and conditioned further that the applicant
will pay fines that may be imposed upon him or her for violation of any of the
rules or regulations of this subchapter. The applicant shall also exhibit a
certificate of a policy of liability insurance to indemnify third parties for
any damages they might suffer as a result of his or her work.
   (D)   Upon approval of the bond and insurance policy and the granting of the
license by the Common Council, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license
authorizing the applicant to operate and do business in the city in accordance
with his or her license, and for which the applicant shall pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer a fee of $50, provided that the license may be renewed each
consecutive year hereafter by the applicant upon the payment of a fee of $20,
and upon satisfactory compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and
provided further, that if no complaints have been received against the
applicant's work as hereinafter set out in §
151.71, the applicant for a renewal license shall not be required to appear
before the Examination Board.
   (E)   No license shall be granted for a period of longer than one year, and
all licenses will expire on the December 31 of the current year in which they
are issued unless sooner revoked for cause as hereinafter set out.
(‘81 Code, § 7-5)
§ 151.66 CONFORMANCE TO BUILDING CODE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All work done by or under the supervision of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed for the business of electrical wiring hereunder shall
conform to the minimum standards of the City Building Code, as amended, as set
forth in §§
151.15 through
151.32, provided that any commercial or industrial building proposed to be
constructed shall meet the specifications required in the No. 1 Fire Zone; and
further that No. 12 wire shall be used instead of No. 14 wire for all
electrical work, and provided further that the complete wiring of any new
dwelling shall have a minimum 100 amperes service.
   (B)   All work done by or under the supervision of any person, firm or
corporation licensed for the business of heating and ventilating or registered
for plumbing shall conform to the minimum requirements of the City Building
Code, provided that all new or replacement water feed lines to buildings shall
have a minimum size of three-fourths inside diameter, and that all water
service shall have a main shutoff valve.
   (C)   Heating and ventilating shall be construed to include warm air heating
and duct ventilating and air conditioning.
(`81 Code, § 7-6)
§ 151.67 BOARDS OF EXAMINATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Examination for the Electrical
Wiring and Heating and Ventilation business. Each Board of Examination shall
determine the fitness of the applicants for license by either an oral or
written examination. The Boards shall be composed of five members as follows:
      (1)   The Board of Examination for the Electrical Wiring Business shall
consist of one Councilman, the Director of Planning and Development, and three
citizen members who are familiar with the electrical wiring business, and not
more than two of whom shall be actively engaged in the business at the time of
their appointment.
      (2)   The Board of Examination for the Heating and Ventilating Business
shall consist of one Council member, the Director of Planning and Development
and three citizen members who are familiar with the heating and ventilating
business, and not more than two of whom shall be actively engaged in the
business at the time of their appointment.
   (B)   The members from the Common Council on the above Boards shall be
appointed by the Mayor to serve during the Council member's term of office, and
the citizen members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Common Council. The appointment of the citizen members shall be for a period of
one year. Provided, that the citizen members actively engaged in the businesses
shall not serve more than one year consecutively; and that no member of the
Common Council who is actively engaged in any of the above set out businesses
shall be appointed as a member of the Board of Examination pertaining to his or
her business.
(`81 Code, § 7-7)
   (C)   The Boards of Examination shall meet after their appointment and elect
from their membership a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary. It shall
be the duty of the Chairperson to preside at all meetings, provided that the
Vice-Chairperson shall preside in the Chairperson's absence. The Secretary of
each Board shall keep minutes of all meetings and forward the results of all
examinations to the Common Council along with the recommendation of the Board.
It will be necessary for a majority of the members to be present at any
meeting. Each Board shall meet to pass upon all applicants in their respective
business upon notification to the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of pending
applications by the Clerk-Treasurer; the meeting to be called by the
Chairperson, and in his or her absence by the Vice-Chairperson.
(`81 Code, § 7-8)
§ 151.68 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Common Council shall have the power to revoke the license or
registration herein granted upon complaint by the Director of Planning and
Development, and proof that the applicant has failed to meet the minimum
requirements as above set out.
(`81 Code, § 7-9)
§ 151.69 REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS REQUIRED.
   Any plumbing contractor desiring to actively engage in the business of
plumbing and hydronic heating in the city and jurisdictional area shall be
licensed by the state and register with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The plumbing
contractor shall submit his or her application for registration accompanied by
a fee of $20, the posting of a performance bond of $1,000, and a copy of his or
her state plumbing contractor's license to the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt of
the application for registration, the Clerk-Treasurer shall submit the same to
a Board of Registration consisting of one Council member, the Director of
Planning and Development, and one citizen member familiar with the plumbing
business. Upon determining that the application and State License are in order,
the Board shall within 24 hours direct the Clerk-Treasurer to issue an original
certificate of registration to the applicant. The Certificate of Registration
shall be for a period of one year, renewable annually at a fee of $20.
(`81 Code, § 7-10)
§ 151.70 SEPARATE WIRING, HEATING AND PLUMBING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An owner, agent, or general contractor may make application for a
Building Permit, provided that a licensed electrician shall apply separately
for a wiring permit; and a licensed heating and ventilating tradesman shall
apply separately for a heating permit; and a registered plumber shall apply
separately for a plumbing permit.
   (B)   The owner of a property proposing to construct a building thereon may
perform any or all of the construction work involved, provided that he or she
shall apply for the applicable permits for wiring, heating, and plumbing; and
provided that he or she shall perform the work involved him or herself.
   (C)   The work done under any permit issued hereunder, shall be the direct
responsibility of the permit holder. No contractor shall assign any permit to
another contractor who is not properly licensed or registered under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   The charge for all wiring, heating and plumbing permits is included in
the building permit fees set forth in ______ , provided that a separate charge
$10 shall be made for a temporary permit set forth in §
151.71.
(`81 Code, § 7-11)
§ 151.71 NONRESIDENT CONTRACTORS.
   A qualified nonresident contractor who is the successful bidder on a
construction contract in the city and can establish his or her ability to
perform the business of plumbing, heating and ventilating or electrical wiring
by complying with the provisions of this subchapter can obtain a temporary
permit for a fee of $25, to do business at any designated address within the
city and jurisdictional area during the course of the construction, the
business to be confined to the site of the construction. The temporary permit
shall not be issued for a period of more than 60 days. If no complaints have
been received against work performed by the holder of a temporary permit issued
hereunder, the City Clerk is authorized to renew the temporary permit without
charge for consecutive 60-day periods upon reapplication by the holder of the
permit.
(`81 Code, § 7-12)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Objectives
   
152.005   Definitions
   
152.006   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.007   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.009   Compliance
   
152.010   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.012   Interpretation
   
152.013   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.025   Designation of Administrator
   
152.026   Permit procedures
   
152.027   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.040   General standards
   
152.041   Specific standards
   
152.042   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.043   Critical facility
   
152.044   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.045   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.046   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.047   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.060   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.061   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.062   Variance procedures
   
152.063   Conditions for variances
   
152.064   Variance notification
   
152.065   Historic structure
   
152.066   Special conditions
 
   
152.998   Severability
   
152.999   Penalties for violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. § 37-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the city does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make Federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as ZONE A, ZONE AE, ZONES A1-A3Q,
ZONE AO, ZONE AH, ZONE AR and ZONE A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A3Q. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30).
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction Federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities, but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). Is the official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (See FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the Floodway and the Fringe Districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes Federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOOD PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydro-
dynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris
impact forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a Registered Professional Engineer or
Architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997,
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The Federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.007. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restricted land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the city are
generally identified as such on the Perry County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated August 17, 2015 as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FlRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. (See definition for A ZONE).
   ZONE B, C, and X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C).
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.006 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Perry County,
Indiana and incorporated areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated August 17, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A Zone” on
the Perry County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated
August 17, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.009 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.010 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.011 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.012 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.013 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the city, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.025 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Common Council hereby appoints the Building Commissioner to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.026 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD BB or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision (see §
152.027(B)(6) for additional information).
   (B)   Construction stage. 
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant’s risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted). The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order far the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.027 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized
and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.044 and
152.046(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary Federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), Federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the Flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.026.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.026.
      (13)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (14)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.040 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.041 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
152.040, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations;
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
152.040(D).
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base fiood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
§
152.040(D). Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.027(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (denned as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.042 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 152.043 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.044 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.007, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources).
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
152.040 et seq. Have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.045 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.040 et seq. have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest
floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the
FPG.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.046 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
152.040 et seq. have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.040 et seq. have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.047 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
150.040 et seq.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.060 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.061 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Perry County Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.062 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.063 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
152.044 or
152.046(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.044 or
152.046(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §
152.041, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Flood Protection Grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (See §
152.064).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See § 152.064).
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.064 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.065 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.066 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.060 et seq., and the purpose of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 152.998 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-7-2015)
2016 S-13
§ 152.999 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy ID be suspended.
   (C)    Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 1091, passed 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BY REFERENCE.
   The City Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference and made part of
this code the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection during regular office
hours.
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of Zoning Ordinance by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF ZONING ORDINANCE BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance, enacted by the city as Ord. 800, passed 11-17-1997,
and amended by Ord. 833, passed 8-2-1999, is hereby adopted by reference and
made part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies are on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection during regular
office hours.
(Am. Ord. 1156, passed 12-2-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
      
IV.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
V.   STREET NAMING
      
VI.   REZONINGS
      
VII.   VACATIONS
      
VIII.   USE OF CITY PROPERTY
      
IX.   ISSUANCE OF BONDS
      
X.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
593      9-17-1984   Agreement with Town of Troy for treatment and disposal of
                     sewage
614      6-3-1985    Amended agreement with Town of Troy for treatment and
                     disposal of sewage
638-A    12-21-1987  Agreement with City of Cannelton for treatment and
                     disposal of sewage
675      1-15-1990   Amendment to agreement with And-Tro Inc. for water
                     purchase contract
817      9-21-1998   Agreement for grant of cable service franchise to
                     Telescripps Cable Company
                     Supplemental Contract between Indiana Municipal Power
888      11-4-2002   Agency and Tell City and a Power Sales Contract between
                     the same parties
900      10-6-2003   Extending cable service franchise agreement granted to
                     Telescripps Cable Company
                     Ratifying joint venture agreement between Perry-Spencer
902      11-3-2003   Communications, Inc. and Tell City Electric Department
                     (dated 7-21-03)
922      10-4-2004   Agreeing to the purchase of new property from Mulzer
                     Crushed Stone, Inc.
                     Authorizing the entry into an interlocal cooperation
938      8-8-2005    agreement for the provision of high-speed wireless
                     internet access service to the public in and around
                     Hancock County, Kentucky
                     Approving rates and charges, lease agreements, and
977      7-2-2007    equipment installation for an activity of the Electric
                     Department
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of the second
984      8-6-2007    Amendatory Agreement to the Power Sales Contract between
                     Indiana Municipal Power Agency and the city
                     Amending Ord. 977, approving rates and charges, lease
1001     8-11-2008   agreements, and equipment installation for an activity of
                     the Electric Department
                     Authorizing participation in a street lighting retrofit
1024     12-7-2009   program and entering into a contract agreeing to set aside
                     percentage of utility savings resulting from the program
                     Granting a franchise agreement to the Tell City Electric
1029     4-19-2010   Department for construction of utility lines within
                     certain platted and unplatted areas of the city
R1154    8-5-2019    Approving the conveyance of real property as described in
                     Exhibit A
                     Authorizing the execution of a lease with the Tell City
1178     10-4-2021   Building Corporation, pledging certain sources of payment
                     to the lease rentals and other matters relating to the
                     lease and the financing of the projects thereunder
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of the Third
1183     3-7-2022    Amendatory Agreement to the Power Sales Contract between
                     Indiana Municipal Power Agency and the City of Tell City,
                     and other matters connected therewith
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
609      2-18-1985   Annexation extending the city limits
610      3-4-1985    Annexation extending the city limits
704      1-20-1992   Annexation extending the city limits
706      2-17-1992   Amends annexation of Ord. 704
754      10-17-1994  Annexation extending the city limits
802      12-1-1997   Annexation extending the city limits
803      12-1-1997   Annexation extending the city limits
1074     4-7-2014    Annexation extending the city limits
1142     5-7-2018    Rescinding and repealing Ord. 1074
                    
 
TABLE III: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
627      7-7-1986    Authorizes the construction of sanitary sewers in
                     Fennhaven
 
TABLE IV: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
616      6-3-1985    Designation of economic revitalization areas
898      9-2-2003    Designation of a portion of city as an economic
                     development target area
1065     5-6-2013    Amends Ord. 898, providing a new description of a portion
                     of city designated as an economic development target area
1206     6-19-2023   Amends rd. 898 and Ord 1065 modifying the economic
                     development target area
                    
 
TABLE V: STREET NAMING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
736      4-19-1993   Adoption of official names for certain streets and roads
                     for implementing E-911 program.
805      12-1-1997   Amendment of official name of Preston Street to Rolling
                     Pines Drive
 
TABLE VI: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
558      4-6-1981    Rezoning of certain property
565      10-19-1981  Rezoning of certain property
590      7-16-1984   Rezoning of certain property
684      11-5-1990   Rezoning of certain property
686      12-3-1990   Rezoning of certain property
687      12-2-1990   Rezoning of certain property
702      1-20-1992   Rezoning of certain property
727      3-15-1993   Rezoning of certain property
734      4-7-1993    Rezoning of certain property
745      1-24-1994   Rezoning of certain property
747      3-7-1994    Rezoning of certain property
757      11-21-1994  Rezoning of certain property
763      4-17-1995   Rezoning of certain property
764      4-17-1995   Rezoning of certain property
765      6-5-1995    Rezoning of certain property
818      9-12-1998   Rezoning of certain property
832      6-7-1999    Rezoning of certain property
833      8-2-1999    Rezoning of certain property
839      2-7-2000    Rezoning of certain property
849      8-7-2000    Rezoning of certain property
851      11-6-2000   Rezoning of certain property
856      2-5-2001    Rezoning of certain property
857      3-5-2001    Rezoning of certain property
867      7-2-2001    Rezoning of certain property
878      3-4-2002    Rezoning of certain property
1071     10-7-2013   Rezoning of certain property
 
TABLE VII: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
         Passed
576      8-9-1982  Vacation of certain streets
601      12-3-1984 Vacation of alley and certain streets
611      3-18-1985 Vacation of certain alleys in Block D
626      6-16-1986 Vacation of certain portions of streets in the Twelve Oaks
                   Subdivision
664      7-5-1989  Vacation of portion of 14th Street
691      4-1-1991  Vacation of portions of Main Street
699      10-21-    Vacation of portion of 20-foot road in Irvin’s Subdivision
         1991      #5
701      12-2-1991 Vacation of certain unimproved public streets located in the
                   Old Orchard Subdivision in Fenn Haven
711      7-6-1992  Vacation of portion of unimproved 23rd Street
715      8-17-1992 Vacation of portion of Fulton Street
772      11-20-    Vacation of portion of Fulton Street
         1995
792      5-5-1997  Vacation of portions of 27th Street, Franklin Street and
                   27th Court
793      5-5-1997  Vacation of portion of 11th Street
807      1-5-1998  Vacation of portions of unimproved 30th, 31st, Schiller and
                   Rubens Streets
812      7-6-1998  Vacation of alley in Block F and alley in Block 22
815      8-3-1998  Vacation of portion of Fulton Street
820      11-2-1998 Vacation of portion of Lafayette Street
821      12-7-1998 Vacation of portions of 22nd, 23rd, Schiller and Lafayette
                   Streets
823      1-4-1999  Vacation of portion of Herrman Street
827      4-5-1999  Vacation of certain unimproved streets and alleys
836      11-1-1999 Vacation of certain streets and alleys
840      2-7-2000  Vacation of portion of Fulton Street
844      5-1-2000  Vacation of portion of 28th Street
846      7-3-2000  Vacation of portions of 24th Street and the alley in Block
                   351
848      7-3-2000  Vacation of Oak Court in Twelve Oaks Subdivision
858      3-5-2001  Vacation of portion of 12th Street
861      4-2-2001  Vacation of portion of Blum Street
864      3-7-2001  Vacation of Fulton Court
868      8-6-2001  Vacation of portion of 14th Street
881      5-20-2002 Vacation of portions of 13th Street and Guttenberg Street
897      8-4-2003  Vacation of portion of Peachtree Lane
907      4-5-2004  Vacation of an unimproved public alley
921-A    10-4-2004 Vacation of certain streets and alleys
925      12-6-2004 Vacation of a portion of Schiller Street and a portion of
                   24th Street
941      9-6-2005  Vacation of a certain alley
945      12-5-2005 Vacation of a certain platted but unimproved public street
951      4-3-2006  Vacating a certain street
952      4-3-2006  Vacation unnamed streets in Block D
954      5-1-2006  Vacating a certain street
957      6-5-2006  Vacating 25th Street between Ruben Street and Little Windy
                   Creek
960      9-5-2006  Vacating a portion of 17th Street
963      11-6-2006 Vacating a portion of 18th Street
985      11-5-2007 Vacating a portion of 16th Street
994      4-7-2008  Vacating certain unnamed streets in Fennhaven:
                   (1) The unnamed street running from the southeast corner of
                 Lot 29 in the Riverview Subdivision of Fennhaven and running
                   along and adjacent to Lots 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 45, 46,
                   and 47 in the Riverview Subdivision of Fennhaven; and
                   (2) The unnamed street running from the southeast corner of
                 Lot 29 in the Riverview Subdivision of Fennhaven along and
                   adjacent to Lots 47, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, and 55 in the
                   Riverview Subdivision of Fennhaven
1004     10-6-2008 Vacating a portion of 35th Street
                   Vacating the alley in Block 67 from its intersection with
1023     12-7-2009 Blum Street on the north side of the block to its
                   intersection with Guttenberg Street on the south side of the
                   block
1030     6-7-2010  Vacating a portion of the alley in Block 227 in the city
1053     6-18-2012 Vacating a portion of 23rd Street
1062     12-3-2012 Vacating a portion of 24th Street and Lafayette Street
1086     4-6-2015  Vacating a portion of 25th Street and a portion of 26th
                   Street
1089     6-1-2015  Vacating a portion of Quince Avenue
1096     12-7-2015 Vacating a portion of Jefferson Street located between 24th
                   Street and 25th Street
1097     12-7-2015 Vacating streets in the Fennhaven Subdivision
1137     2-5-2018  Vacating certain unnamed streets in Fennhaven
1138     3-5-2018  Vacating certain unnamed streets in Fennhaven
1174     3-1-2021  Vacating certain streets and alleyways within the boundaries
                   of Hagedorn Park
1191     8-1-2022  Vacating a portion of 18th Street and an unnamed alley
1199     4-3-2023  Vacating alleyways adjacent to the Tell City Electric
                   Department
1204     6-5-2023  Vacating portions of 15th Street and portions of Rubens
                   Street
                  
 
TABLE VIII: USE OF CITY PROPERTY
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Grant of license to the Board of Trustees of the County
840       2-7-2000    Memorial Hospital for the maintenance of a parking lot on
                      a portion of Old State Route 66
Res. 1052 6-18-2012   Exchange of real estate of the city for real estate owned
                      by the Perry County Port Authority
1192      8-1-2022    Authorizing transfer of real estate to not-for-profit
                      entities
                     
 
TABLE IX: ISSUANCE OF BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
879      4-1-2002    City to issue Bonds evidencing a loan from the
                     Environmental Remediation Revolving Loan Program
                     Refunding by the city of its Waterworks Refunding Revenue
                     Bonds of 1993 and its Taxable Waterworks Revenue Bonds of
                     1996; authorizing the issuance of Waterworks Refunding
943      9-6-2005    Revenue Bonds for such purpose; providing for the
                     collection, segregation and distribution of the revenues
                     of the waterworks and the safeguarding of the interests of
                     the owners of the Waterworks Refunding Revenue Bonds
                     authorized herein
                     Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds for the purpose of
959      7-24-2006   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
                     extensions and improvements to the sewage works of the
                     city
                     Defeasance and redemption of certain outstanding taxable
1028     4-5-2010    Sewage Works Revenue Bonds of 1996 of the city;
                     safeguarding the interests of the owners of such Revenue
                     Bonds
                     Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds for the purpose of
1077     8-18-2014   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
                     extensions and improvements to the sewage works of the
                     city
                     Issuance of Sewage Works Revenue Bonds for the purpose of
1114     11-7-2016   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
                     extensions and improvements to the sewage works of the
                     city
                     Issuance of waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of
1131     11-20-2017  providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
                     extensions and improvements to the municipal waterworks of
                     the city
                     Issuance of waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of
1172     11-2-2020   providing funds to pay the cost of certain additions,
                     extensions and improvements to the municipal waterworks of
                     the city
                    
 
TABLE X: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
884      7-1-2002    Amendment to Zoning Map
905      12-15-2003  Amendment to Zoning Map
921      11-1-2004   Amendment to Zoning Map
924      12-6-2004   Amendment to Zoning Map
926      12-6-2004   Amendment to Zoning Map
942      9-6-2005    Amendment to Zoning Map
946      12-5-2005   Amendment to Zoning Map
949      3-6-2006    Amendment to Zoning Map
953      4-3-2006    Amendment to Zoning Map
956      6-5-2006    Amendment to Zoning Map
—      6-7-2010    Amendment to Zoning Map
1031     6-7-2010    Amendment to Zoning Map
1035     8-2-2010    Amendment to Zoning Map
1057     10-1-2012   Amendment to Zoning Map
1058     11-5-2012   Amendment to Zoning Map
1061     12-3-2012   Amendment to Zoning Map
1063     12-3-2012   Amendment to Zoning Map
1080     11-3-2014   Amendment to Zoning Map
1084     2-2-2015    Amendment to Zoning Map
1104     6-6-2016    Amendment to Zoning Map
1140     3-5-2018    Amendment to Zoning Map
1162     4-20-2020   Amendment to Zoning Map
1169     10-5-2020   Amendment to Zoning Map
1179     10-4-2021   Amendment to Zoning Map
1189     6-20-2022   Amendment to Zoning Map
1194     10-3-2022   Amendment to Zoning Map
1215     7-1-2024    Amendment to Zoning Map
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1981 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Cite Code Section
Indiana Code Cite     Code Section
1-1-1-5               10.04
1-1-1-7               10.12
1-1-1-8               10.06
1-1-4-5               10.05
1-1-5-1               10.11
1-1-6-1               10.08
4-21.5-3-7            151.30
4-26-8                51.32
4-27-5                51.32
5-3-1                 90.04
5-11-14               36.08
5-11-10-1.6           35.11
5-13 et seq.          50.02
5-14-3-4(b)           35.06
5-22 et seq.          35.01
6-1.1-1-22.5          35.03
8-1-2-89              150.125;
                      150.127
8-1-2-101             31.04
8-1.5-2               51.80
8-1.5-3               51.80
8-1.5-3-3             150.021
                      Ch. 150, Appendix B, Sections
8-1.5-3-3(a)(1)       4,
                      5
8-1.5-3-3(a)(2)       Ch. 150, Appendix B, Section 3
8-1.5-3-3(a)(3)       Ch. 150, Appendix B, Section 2
8-1.5-3-4             31.04
8-1.5-3-11            34.03;
                      34.04
8-1.5-5               31.11
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.     31.11
9-1-2                 90.01
9-1-2-1               70.09
9-13-2-69.7           76.01
14-8-2-185            76.01
14-28-1               152.044
14-28-1-26            152.044
16-12-21              70.01
18-5-1.5-1            35.02
18-5-1.5-1–18-5-1.5-35.02
18-6-4.5              31.03
19-1-17.5-1           32.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.      93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.      93.01
22-9.5-2-2            93.02
22-9.5-2-3            93.02
22-9.5-2-4            93.02
22-9.5-2-8            93.02
22-9.5-2-9            93.02
22-9.5-2-10           93.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)        93.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)        93.02
22-9.5-2-11           93.02
22-9.5-2-13           93.02
22-9.5-3              93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.      93.10
22-9.5-4-8            93.11
22-9.5-5              93.02
22-9.5-5-1            93.03
22-9.5-6              93.02;
                      93.10
22-12-1-3             151.50
22-13-2-7             151.30
22-15-3-1             151.20
33-6-3-1 et seq.      37.01
34-4-32               55.28
36-1-3-8(a)(10)       10.99
36-1-4-17             55.28;
                      55.29
36-1-5-4              36.06
36-1-6-2              94.03
36-1-11-4             35.03
36-1-11-4(c)          35.03
36-1-11-4(e)          35.03
36-1-11-16            35.03
36-1-20.2             36.06
36-1-21               36.06
                      Chapter 150, Appendix B, Sections
36-4-4-3              5,
                      6
36-4-6-8              30.30
36-4-6-11             36.06
36-4-6-13             30.33
36-4-6-14–36-4-6-17 30.33
                      Chapter 150, Appendix B, Sections
36-4-9-2              5,
                      6
                      Chapter 150, Appendix B, Sections
36-4-9-5(1)           5,
                      6
36-4-10 et seq.       30.50
36-4-11-4             30.50
36-5-2-9.4            36.06
36-7-1                150.003
36-7-1-19             150.003
36-7-3                150.002;
                      150.070
                      150.001–
36-7-3 et seq.        150.003;
                      150.036
36-7-3-3(a)(3)        150.003;
                      150.070
                      150.001–
36-7-4                150.003;
                      150.070
36-7-4 et seq.        150.001–
                      150.003
36-7-4-201 et seq.    150.001
36-7-4-610            150.008
                      150.002;
36-7-4-700 et seq.    150.003;
                      150.022;
                      150.036
36-7-4-701            150.002
36-7-4-701(b)         150.008
36-7-4-702            150.097
36-7-4-702 et seq.    150.003;
                      150.039
36-7-4-706            150.035
36-7-4-708            150.077
36-7-4-709            150.054
36-7-4-710            150.003;
                      150.050
36-7-4-711            150.050
36-7-4-1016           150.006;
                      150.077
36-7-9                151.46
36-7-9-1 et seq.      31.10
36-7-9-1–36-7-9-28  151.47
36-7-9-2              151.45
36-7-9-4              151.45
36-7-9-14             151.51
36-7-9-28             151.53
36-7-10-4             94.03
36-9-15.5             34.02
36-9-15.5-1 et seq.   34.02
36-9-15.5-2           34.02
36-9-23-30            150.127
36-9-30-35            55.28
36-9-32 et seq.       34.07
36-10-2-4             34.18
36-10-2-5             34.18
36-10-3-10            31.07
36-10-3-11 et seq.    31.07
37-7-4                152.001
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1981 CODE
1981 Code 2003 Code
1981 Code 2003 Code
2-1       34.01
2-3       35.02
2-15      36.03
2-16      36.04
2-17      36.05
2-18      36.05
3-1       110.01
4-2       111.02
7-1       151.02
7-2       151.03
7-5       151.65
7-6       151.66
7-7       151.67
7-8       151.67
7-9       151.68
7-10      151.69
7-11      151.70
7-12      151.71
8-1       92.02
8-2       92.06
8-3       92.07
          38.01-
          38.05;
          38.15-
9-1       38.18;
          38.30;
          38.31;
          38.99
          33.01;
10-1      33.02;
          33.04
10-2      71.45
14-1      70.01
14-2      70.01
14-3      70.01
14-4      70.01
14-5      70.01
14-6      70.01
14-7      70.01
14-8      70.01
14-9      70.01
14-10     70.01
14-11     70.01
14-12     70.01
14-13     70.01
14-14     70.01
14-15     70.01
14-16     70.01
14-17     70.01
14-18     70.01
14-19     70.01
14-20     70.01
14-21     70.01
14-22     70.01
14-23     70.01
14-24     70.01
14-25     70.01
14-26     70.01
14-27     70.01
14-37     70.03
14-38     70.04
14-39     70.05
14-40     70.06
14-41     70.07
14-42     70.08
14-53     70.02
14-55     71.05
14-56     71.03
14-57     71.06
14-58     70.05
14-59     70.05
14-60     70.05
14-70     71.20
14-71     71.21
14-71     71.22
14-72     71.23
14-74     71.24
14-73     71.22
14-75     71.25
14-85     71.35
14-87     Ch.74, Sched. I
14-97     71.36
14-98     71.37
14-99     Ch.74, Sched. II
14-110    71.38
14-111    Ch. 74, Sched. III
14-112    Ch. 74, Sched. III
14-113    71.39
14-114    72.01;
          Ch. 74, Sched. IV
14-114(a) Ch. 74, Sched. IV
14-124    71.40
14-125    71.41
14-126    71.07
14-127    71.42
14-128    71.43
14-129    71.44
14-130    71.46
14-131    71.47
14-132    71.09
14-133    71.09
14-152    72.35
14-153    72.36
14-154    72.37
14-155    72.38
14-156    72.99
14-166    Ch. 75, Sched. II
14-176    73.01
14-177    73.02
14-178    73.03
14-179    73.05
14-182    73.01
14-194    73.07
14-195    Ch. 75, Sched. IV;
          Ch. 75, Sched. V
14-198    73.08
14-210    73.10
14-211    73.09
14-213    Ch. 75, Sched. I
14-213A   Ch. 75, Sched. I
14-214    Ch. 75, Sched. I
14-224    Ch. 74, Sched. VII
14-235    70.11
14-236    70.11
14-237    70.11
14-238    70.11
14-239    70.11
14-240    70.11
14-241    70.11
15-1      91.09
15-2      94.02
15-3      130.01
15-5      130.02
15-6      130.03
15-7      95.01
15-8      95.01
15-10     95.01
15-12     116.01
15-13     94.02
15-14     130.05
15-17     113.02
17-1      31.01
17-2      31.03
18-1      32.04
18-2      35.07
18-3      32.03
18-4      32.05
20-1      151.01
20-2      95.01
21-1      51.01
21-2      51.02
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.15-
R990419d - -         51.34;
                     51.36-
                     51.42
1052     6-18-2012   TSO VIII
1153     7-1-2019    35.10
1154     8-5-2019    TSO I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I–
                     Ch. 74, Sched. VII;
–      1-21-1980   Ch. 75, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. II;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. IV;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. V
35       5-26-1896   92.06
53       7-22-1902   91.09
54       10-14-1902  94.02
63       11-11-1902  95.01
106      2-11-1908   130.01
113      4-27-1909   92.01
128      1-2-1915    151.01
136      2-23-1916   51.01
144      4-13-1915   33.01;
                     33.02
153      4-25-1916   130.03
156      4-10-1917   92.01
162      4-9-1919    95.01
180      1- -1921    95.01
190      12-26-1922  33.03
191      2-13-1923   92.01
205      11-8-1927   95.01
209      10-9-1928   110.01
219      1-27-1931   92.07
226      3-13-1945   116.01
229      3-10-1936   111.02
261      12-23-1941  36.05
266      3-13-1945   94.02
271      3-11-1947   151.02
302      8-28-1951   36.03
304      - -         151.03
338      2-11-1958   31.01
342      5-12-1959   130.02
359      3-13-1962   51.02
397      7-5-1965    34.01
423      9-11-1967   31.03
453      8-7-1972    36.04
470      2-10-1903   33.01;
                     33.04
478      4-21-1975   31.03
494      10-18-1976  130.05
505      3-6-1978    32.05
522      3-19-1979   36.05
538      1-21-1980   70.11
548      8-1-1983    111.01
556      3-1-1981    113.02
557      2-16-1981   35.02
558      4-6-1981    TSO VI
559      6-30-1981   71.08
560      9-8-1981    36.02
565      10-19-1981  TSO VI
566      3-1-1982    95.02
571      7-19-1982   34.05
572      7-19-1982   35.04
576      8-9-1982    TSO VII
580      11-1-1982   32.03
                     30.01;
                     30.15;
                     30.16;
586      8-15-1983   30.30-
                     30.36;
                     30.50;
                     31.06
587      7-18-1983   35.05
588      6-4-1984    31.08;
                     34.06
                     112.01;
589      6-18-1984   112.03;
                     112.04
590      7-16-1984   TSO VI
591      9-6-1984    34.02
592      9-17-1984   71.04
593      9-17-1984   TSO I
                     53.001-
                     53.008;
                     53.020-
599      12-3-1984   53.031;
                     53.034;
                     53.045-
                     53.055
600      12-3-1984   53.999
601      12-3-1984   TSO VII
604      1-10-1985   31.04
609      2-18-1985   TSO II
610      3-4-1985    TSO II
611      3-18-1985   TSO VII
614      6-3-1985    TSO I
616      6-3-1985    TSO IV
                     115.01-
                     115.05;
                     115.15-
                     115.26;
617      7-1-1985    115.40;
                     115.42-
                     115.44;
                     115.55-
                     115.58
618      7-1-1985    31.05
626      6-16-1986   TSO VII
627      7-7-1986    TSO III
                     55.01;
                     55.02;
630      12-22-1986  55.04-
                     55.08;
                     55.12-
                     55.15
634      8-31-1987   34.03
635      8-31-1987   34.04
638-A    12-21-1987  TSO I
641      3-21-1988   113.01
642      4-4-1988    35.07
644      1-20-1988   94.15
645      6-20-1988   130.04
646      8-1-1988    70.09
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I;
648      9-6-1988    Ch. 74, Sched. III;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. VI;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. I
                     151.45-
649      9-30-1988   151.51;
                     151.53
                     151.15-
                     151.22;
650      9-30-1988   151.24;
                     151.26-
                     151.30,
                     151.32
654      11-7-1988   35.03
658      1-16-1989   31.08
                     55.02;
662      4-3-1989    55.08–
                     55.11
664      7-5-1989    TSO VII
666      10-2-1989   Ch. 74, Sched. I–
                     Ch. 74, Sched. III
670      12-4-1989   53.032
671      1-1-1990    37.01;
                     37.02
672      1-15-1990   51.03
675      1-15-1990   TSO I
676      2-5-1990    90.01-
                     90.07
677      4-2-1990    112.02
678      4-2-1990    55.01;
                     55.04
680      5-21-1990   31.09;
                     34.07
684      11-5-1990   TSO VI
686      12-3-1990   TSO VI
687      12-2-1990   TSO VI
688      1-21-1991   151.52
689      2-18-1991   Ch. 75, Sched. I
690      3-4-1991    Ch. 75, Sched. I
691      4-1-1991    TSO VII
692      5-20-1991   31.07
695      6-17-1991   Ch. 75, Sched. I
697      10-7-1991   Ch. 74, Sched. III
699      10-21-1991  TSO VII
701      12-2-1991   TSO VII
702      1-20-1992   TSO VI
703      1-20-1992   Ch. 74, Sched. VIII;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. I
704      1-20-1992   TSO II
706      2-17-1992   TSO II
710      6-1-1992    35.06
711      7-6-1992    TSO VII
712      7-6-1992    55.15
714      7-20-1992   Ch. 74, Sched. III
715      8-17-1992   TSO VII
716      8-17-1992   Ch. 74, Sched. III
720      1-4-1993    130.04
721      1-4-1993    32.02
724      1-18-1993   53.051
725      2-15-1993   Ch. 74, Sched. III
727      3-15-1993   TSO VI
                     93.01-
728      3-15-1993   93.08;
                     93.10;
                     93.11
730      3-15-1993   53.051
731      3-15-1991   35.07
733      4-5-1993    30.50;
                     31.02
734      4-7-1993    TSO VI
736      4-19-1993   TSO V
738      7-7-1993    34.02
739      8-2-1993    Ch. 75, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. II
743      11-1-1993   115.41
744      1-4-1993    Ch. 75, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. III
745      1-24-1994   TSO VI
747      3-7-1994    TSO VI
750      6-10-1994   Ch. 74, Sched. V
754      10-17-1994  TSO II
757      11-21-1994  TSO VI
758      1-17-1995   70.10
761      3-20-1995   35.02
763      4-17-1995   TSO VI
764      4-17-1995   TSO VI
765      6-5-1995    TSO VI
                     71.35;
766      6-19-1995   Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. III;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. I
770      10-2-1995   Ch. 75, Sched. I
771      10-2-1995   73.02
772      11-20-1995  TSO VII
774      11-20-1995  Ch. 75, Sched. I
776      2-5-1996    Ch. 74, Sched. III
777      3-4-1996    52.01
791      3-3-1997    50.01
792      5-5-1997    TSO VII
793      5-5-1997    TSO VII
794      6-2-1997    Ch. 74, Sched. I
797      8-4-1997    Ch. 75, Sched. I
800      11-17-1997  154.01
802      12-1-1997   TSO II
803      12-1-1997   TSO II
804      12-2-1997   55.25-
                     55.29
805      12-1-1997   TSO V
807      1-5-1998    TSO VII
808      4-6-1998    73.06;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. III
812      7-6-1998    TSO VII
813      7-6-1998    34.08
814      7-6-1998    35.01
815      8-3-1998    TSO VII
817      9-21-1998   TSO I
818      9-12-1998   TSO VI
820      11-2-1998   TSO VII
821      12-7-1998   TSO VII
822      12-14-1998  151.23
823      1-4-1999    TSO VII
825      2-1-1999    52.15-
                     52.24
827      4-5-1999    TSO VII
832      6-7-1999    TSO VI
833      8-2-1999    154.01;
                     TSO VI
836      11-1-1999   TSO VII
838      11-1-1999   35.07
839      2-7-2000    TSO VI
840      2-1-2000    TSO VII;
                     TSO VIII
841      2-7-2000    Ch. 74, Sched. III
                     54.01-52.04;
                     54.15-
                     54.23;
                     54.35-
                     54.47;
842      4-1-2000    54.60-
                     54.62;
                     54.75-
                     54.83;
                     54.95-
                     54.97
843      3-6-2000    Ch. 74, Sched. III;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. I
844      7-1-2002    TSO VII;
                     TSO X
845      5-1-2000    50.02
846      7-3-2000    TSO VII
847      7-3-2000    55.25
848      7-3-2000    TSO VII
849      8-7-2000    TSO VI
850      9-5-2000    130.08
851      11-6-2000   TSO VI
855      11-6-2000   92.03-
                     92.05
856      2-5-2001    TSO VI
857      3-5-2001    TSO VI
858      3-5-2001    TSO VII
859      4-1-2001    94.01
860      3-5-2001    34.10
861      4-2-2001    TSO VII
864      3-7-2001    TSO VII
865      5-7-2001    36.01
866      7-2-2001    34.09;
                     34.11
867      7-2-2001    TSO VI
868      8-6-2001    TSO VII
875      1-7-2002    130.07
877      3-4-2002    Ch. 74, Sched. III
878      3-4-2002    TSO VI
879      4-1-2002    TSO IX
880      4-1-2002    Ch. 75, Sched. I
881      5-20-2002   TSO VII
882-A    6-3-2002    Ch. 74, Sched. III
883      6-3-2002    51.70
                     92.02-
                     92.05;
885      8-5-2002    92.08-
                     92.10;
                     92.99
887      9-3-2002    Ch. 74, Sched. III
888      11-4-2002   TSO I
889      11-4-2002   30.37
                     92.04;
890      2-3-2003    92.08;
                     92.09
892      2-3-2003    52.01
893      5-5-2003    Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. III
894      5-5-2003    55.28
896      7-7-2003    Adopting Ordinance
897      8-4-2003    TSO VII
898      9-2-2003    TSO IV
899      10-6-2003   Ch. 75, Sched. I
900      10-6-2003   TSO I
901      11-3-2003   51.80
902      11-3-2003   TSO I
903      11-3-2003   34.12
                     51.19;
904      12-1-2003   51.20;
                     51.55
905      12-15-2003  TSO X
                     114.01-
906      3-1-2004    114.13,
                     114.99
907      4-5-2004    TSO VII
908      4-5-2004    Adopting Ordinance
909      5-17-2004   94.15
910      6-7-2004    94.15
                     96.01,
911      6-7-2004    96.02,
                     96.99
912      6-7-2004    94.03
913      6-7-2004    55.28
                     52.15-
916      6-28-2004   52.17,
                     52.19-
                     52.24
917      6-28-2004   52.18
918      8-2-2004    Ch. 74, Sched. III
919      9-7-2004    92.05
920      9-7-2004    52.24
921-A    10-4-2004   TSO VII
921      11-1-2004   TSO X
922      10-4-2004   TSO I
923      12-6-2004   Ch. 74, Sched. III;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. VI
924      12-6-2004   TSO X
925      12-6-2004   TSO VII
926      12-6-2004   TSO X
927      12-6-2004   151.30
927-A    1-4-2005    Ch. 74, Sched. III
928      2-7-2005    35.08
929      2-28-2005   Ch. 74, Sched. VI
930      3-7-2005    92.04
931      3-7-2005    Ch. 74, Sched. III
932      4-4-2005    95.01
933      4-4-2005    51.55
934      5-2-2005    55.01-
                     55.15
935      6-6-2005    51.55
936      6-6-2005    Adopting Ordinance
937      7-5-2005    55.01-
                     55.15
938      8-8-2005    TSO I
939      8-15-2005   53.035
941      9-6-2005    TSO VII
942      9-6-2005    TSO X
943      9-6-2005    TSO IX
944      11-7-2005   31.10
945      12-5-2005   TSO VII
946      12-5-2005   TSO X
947      1-3-2006    Ch. 74, Sched. III
948      1-3-2006    54.105-
                     54.112
949      3-6-2006    TSO X
951      4-3-2006    TSO VII
952      4-3-2006    TSO VII
953      4-3-2006    TSO X
954      5-1-2006    TSO VII
955      5-1-2006    Adopting Ordinance
956      6-5-2006    TSO X
957      6-5-2006    TSO VII
958      6-5-2006    Ch. 74, Sched. III
959      7-24-2006   TSO IX
960      9-5-2006    TSO VII
962      10-2-2006   35.08
963      11-6-2006   TSO VII
964      11-6-2006   Ch. 74, Sched. IX
965      12-14-2006  Ch. 75, Sched. I
966      11-6-2006   Ch. 74, Sched. VII
                     52.15-
967      1-2-2007    52.17;
                     52.19-
                     52.24
                     150.001-
                     150.008;
                     150.020-
                     150.024;
                     150.035-
                     150.039;
                     150.050-
                     150.058;
                     150.065-
                     150.082;
                     150.095-
                     150.111;
970      3-5-2007    150.125-
                     150.127;
                     150.135-
                     150.138;
                     150.145;
                     150.150;
                     150.151;
                     150.160;
                     150.170-
                     150.173;
                     150.999;
                     Chapter 150, Appendices
                     A and
                     B
972      4-2-2007    51.55
974      5-7-2007    55.09;
                     55.11
975      6-4-2007    31.11
977      7-2-2007    TSO I
979      7-2-2007    51.19
984      8-6-2007    TSO I
985      11-5-2007   TSO VII
987      11-5-2007   92.08
990      2-4-2008    Ch. 75, Sched. I
991      3-3-2008    92.08
993      4-7-2008    51.55
994      4-7-2008    TSO VII
995      5-5-2008    51.55
996      6-2-2008    Ch. 75, Sched. I
997      6-2-2008    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1000     7-7-2008    51.55
1001     8-11-2008   TSO I
1002     9-2-2008    92.04
1003     9-2-2008    90.08
1004     10-6-2008   TSO VII
1005     10-6-2008   Ch. 74, Sched. III
1006     10-6-2008   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1009     5-4-2009    55.09
1010     6-1-2009    94.14
1011     6-1-2009    35.07
1012     6-1-2009    Ch. 75, Sched. VI
1014     7-6-2009    51.55
1017     8-3-2009    51.55
1019     9-8-2009    35.07
1020     10-5-2009   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1021     10-5-2009   51.55
1022     11-2-2009   92.07
1023     12-7-2009   TSO VII
1024     12-7-2009   TSO I
1025     12-7-2009   92.03
1028     4-5-2010    TSO IX
1029     4-19-2010   TSO I
—      6-7-2010    TSO X
1030     6-7-2010    TSO VII
1031     6-7-2010    TSO X
1032     7-6-2010    Ch. 74, Sched. III
1033     7-6-2010    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1034     7-6-2010    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1035     8-2-2010    TSO X
1036     8-2-2010    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1037     9-7-2010    96.03
1038     9-7-2010    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1039     10-4-2010   130.05
1041     4-4-2011    34.14
1042     4-4-2011    34.13
1043     5-2-2011    55.09
1044     10-3-2011   92.01,
                     95.01
1045     3-5-2012    151.23
1046     5-7-2012    151.21
1049     6-4-2012    35.08
1050     6-4-2012    94.15
1051     6-4-2012    36.06
1053     6-18-2012   TSO VII
1054     7-2-2012    34.15
1055     8-6-2012    Ch. 74, Sched. III
1056     8-6-2012    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1057     10-1-2012   TSO X
1058     11-5-2012   TSO X
1060     11-5-2012   150.110
1061     12-3-2012   TSO X
1062     12-3-2012   TSO VII
1063     12-3-2012   TSO X
1064     12-27-2012  30.37
1065     5-6-2013    TSO IV
1066     5-6-2013    55.09
1068     6-3-2013    94.15
1070     7-1-2013    Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sched. I
1071     10-7-2013   TSO VI
1072     12-2-2013   51.55
1073     12-2-2013   Ch. 74, Sched. III
1074     4-7-2014    TSO II
1075     5-19-2014   95.03
1076     6-2-2014    92.04
1077     8-18-2014   TSO IX
1079     10-6-2014   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1080     11-3-2014   TSO X
1081     11-3-2014   51.43
1082     12-1-2014   55.10
1083     1-5-2015    52.21
1084     2-2-2015    TSO X
1085     2-2-2015    10.99
1086     4-6-2015    TSO VII
1087     4-6-2015    92.03
1088     4-6-2015    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1089     6-1-2015    TSO VII
1090     7-6-2015    73.12
                     152.001–
                     152.013;
                     152.025–
                     152.027;
1091     7-6-2015    152.040–
                     152.047;
                     152.060–
                     152.066;
                     152.998;
                     152.999
1094     10-5-2015   93.01–
                     93.11
1095     12-9-2015   92.03
1096     12-7-2015   TSO VII
1097     12-7-2015   TSO VII
1098     3-7-2016    73.12
1101     3-7-2016    71.08
1102     4-4-2016    92.03
1103     5-2-2016    32.01
1104     6-6-2016    TSO X
1105     6-6-2016    35.09
1106     6-6-2016    130.05
1107     7-5-2016    Ch. 75, Sch. I
1108     8-1-2016    Ch. 75, Sch. I
1110     9-6-2016    Ch. 75, Sch. I
1111     9-6-2016    54.05
1112     9-6-2016    32.03
1113     9-6-2016    94.15
1114     11-7-2016   TSO IX
1115     10-3-2016   52.02
1117     12-5-2016   52.15
                     91.01-
1121     4-3-2017    91.08,
                     91.99
1122     4-3-2017    51.55
1123     6-5-2017    55.09
1127     9-5-2017    31.10
1128     10-2-2017   130.02
                     53.001 -
                     53.008,
1130     11-30-2017  53.020 -
                     53.035,
                     53.045 -
                     53.055
1131     11-20-2017  TSO IX
1133     11-13-2017  51.55
1134     12-4-2017   130.02
1135     12-18-2017  36.07
1136     2-19-2018   53.065
1137     2-5-2018    TSO VII
1138     3-5-2018    TSO VII
1139     3-5-2018    94.15
1140     3-5-2018    TSO X
1141     4-2-2018    53.036
1142     5-7-2018    TSO II
                     151.18,
1143     5-7-2018    151.21,
                     151.23,
                     151.33
1144     5-7-2018    55.09
1145     6-4-2018    53.065
1147     8-6-2018    53.065
1148     9-17-2018   34.10
1149     11-5-2018   34.16
1150     12-27-2018  92.04
1151     2-4-2019    50.03
1152     7-1-2019    92.04
1156     12-2-2019   154.01
1157     12-2-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. III
1158     12-2-2019   130.05
1159     1-6-2020    51.55
1162     4-20-2020   TSO X
                     76.01 -
1168     11-2-2020   76.03,
                     76.99
1169     10-5-2020   TSO X
1170     11-2-2020   92.03
1172     11-2-2020   TSO IX
1173     3-1-2021    34.02
1174     3-1-2021    TSO VII
1175     5-3-2021    34.17
1176     5-3-2021    55.09
1177     9-7-2021    112.04
1178     10-4-2021   TSO I
1179     10-4-2021   TSO X
1182     12-20-2021  92.08.
                     92.09
1183     3-7-2022    TSO I
1184     3-21-2022   34.18
1185     4-4-2022    34.17
1186     6-20-2022   52.15 -
                     52.24
1187     6-20-2022   51.55
1188     7-20-2022   Ch. 74, Sch. III
1189     6-20-2022   TSO X
1190     7-7-2022    51.55
1191     8-1-2022    TSO VII
1192     8-1-2022    TSO VIII
1193     11-7-2022   73.06
1194     10-3-2022   TSO X
1195     11-7-2022   51.55
1196     12-5-2022   Ch. 75, Sch. I
1197     1-17-2023   55.09
1198     12-19-2022  30.37
1199     4-3-2023    TSO VII
1201     5-15-2023   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1202     5-15-2023   117.01 -
                     117.14
1204     6-5-2023    TSO VII
1205     6-5-2023    36.08
1206     6-19-2023   TSO IV
                     117.04,
1207     7-3-2023    117.05,
                     117.08,
                     117.14
1207A    9-5-2023    Ch. 75, Sch. I
1209     11-6-2023   35.11
1210     12-18-2023  92.03,
                     92.04
1212     2-5-2024    34.17
1214     2-5-2024    Ch. 74, Sch. III
1215     7-1-2024    TSO X
                    
 
