THORNTOWN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-5, passed 2-19-2024; and
Res. 2021-4, passed 2-15-2021; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
THORNTOWN, INDIANA
TOWN COUNCIL
President            Sara Fairfield
Vice President       Dave Williams
Council Member       Bruce Burtner
Council Member       Larry Truitt
Council Member       Shawn McClintock
                     
TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Town Clerk-Treasurer Koren Gray
Town Attorney        Amy Nooning
                     
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Concept of code
   
10.18   Unauthorized alterations of tampering with code
   
10.19   Recording; proof of publication of ordinances
   
10.20   Jurisdiction
   
10.21   Code in printed form
   
10.22   Ordinances not part of the code
   
10.23   Penalty not less than statutory penalty
   
10.24   Designation of a misdemeanor
   
10.25   Schedule of fines and fees
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Thorntown
Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
      CORPORATE LIMITS, TOWN LIMITS. The legal boundaries of the Town of
Thorntown, except as otherwise provided by law.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Boone County, Indiana.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head
of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some duty,
it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer
to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the required act
or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. The INDIANA CODE, as now or hereafter amended.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “wear”
and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
      OFFICERS GENERALLY. Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such as
“Clerk/Treasurer”,“Chief of Police”, and the like, such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words “of the Town of Thorntown”.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the town and all amendments thereto.
      OWNER. Applies a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety,
or any holder of a beneficial interest in the whole or in a part of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, school yard, or open
space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      QUORUM. A majority of the members of a board, commission, or committee
holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street dedication between the curbline and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The words “the state” or “this state” means the State of Indiana.
      STREET. Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards,
roads, alleys, viaducts, and all other public highways in the town.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applies to a building or land, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Thorntown, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
(1995 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1995 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1995 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 CONCEPT OF CODE.
   The concept of this code is to include herein all ordinances regulating the
activity of the citizens, residents, visitors, or other persons of or coming to
the town, as that activity relates to the governmental powers of the town to
regulate such activity.
(1995 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.18 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATIONS OF TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented.
(1995 Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.19 RECORDING; PROOF OF PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Town Council shall be recorded by the
Town Clerk/Treasurer in a book of ordinances.
   (B)   The original shall be filed in the Clerk/Treasurer’s office, and due
proof of publication of all ordinances requiring publication, by the affidavit
of the printer or publisher, shall be procured by the Clerk/Treasurer and
attached thereto, or written and attested thereto, or written and attested upon
the face of such ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.20 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code shall apply to all
acts performed within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Provisions of this code shall also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits of the town and up to the limits provided by law, where the
law confers power on the town to regulate such particular acts outside the
corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.21 CODE IN PRINTED FORM.
   (A)   This code is prepared in printed form, and one copy hereof shall at
all times be maintained and available for inspection at the Town Hall during
the regular business hours thereof.
   (B)   Copies of the code may be purchased in printed form from the Clerk/
Treasurer at a charge set by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-16)
§ 10.22 ORDINANCES NOT PART OF THE CODE.
   (A)   The following matters and subjects are not incorporated into this
code, but ordinances adopted in relation thereto are hereby confirmed to be in
full force and effect, unless repealed or altered by separate ordinance:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance making appropriations, adopting budgets, promising or
guaranteeing the payment of money for the town, or authorizing the issuance of
any bonds of the town or any evidence of the town’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (3)   Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers, officials, or employees
of the town not inconsistent with such code;
      (4)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the Town Council to any person;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, or in any way
affecting any street or public way in the town;
      (7)   Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the town;
      (8)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor;
      (9)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in
the town;
      (10)   Any ordinance consistent with this code establishing traffic
regulations for specific streets or portions thereof;
      (11)   Any ordinance concerning any ward or district in the town;
      (12)   Any ordinance annexing property to the town;
      (13)   Any ordinance establishing or amending fees, charges, or rates;
      (14)   Any ordinance that creates any fund;
      (15)   Any zoning ordinance of the town; and/or
      (16)   Any ordinance levying taxes, not in conflict or inconsistent with
the provisions of this code.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
(1995 Code, § 1-18)
§ 10.23 PENALTY NOT LESS THAN STATUTORY PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any section of this code setting forth a
penalty, the maximum penalty which may be imposed for any violation shall not
be less than the penalty prescribed by statutes for the same offense.
(1995 Code, § 1-12)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) prohibits a penalty of imprisonment for an ordinance
violation
§ 10.24 DESIGNATION OF A MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   The Town Council does not have the statutory authority to determine if
the violation of an ordinance is a “misdemeanor”.
   (B)   The word misdemeanor, whenever it is appears in the ordinances, from
November 21, 1994, shall be replaced with “violation of ordinance” or any
similar phrase which shall correct the intent of every existing ordinance.
   (C)   This section shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (D)   This section shall be effective upon passage.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 10.25 SCHEDULE OF FINES AND FEES.
   (A)
Violation Fees and Fines
Violation                                    Fees and Fines
PLANNING
All projects with costs exceeding $1,000 require a permit and are subject to
the permit fees illustrated herein.
Residential permit fees:
                                             $300 plus $0.10 per square foot
   House                                  (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
   Garage                                 $150 plus $0.10 per square foot
                                             (includes HVAC, plumbing, electric
                                             $150 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Pole barn/out-building                 (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
   Pre-fabricated sheds                   $75
                                             $150 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Shed over 80 square feet               (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
                                             $150 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Addition                               (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
                                             $150 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Remodel                                (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
   Demolition                             $75
   Electric                               $75
   Plumbing                               $75
   HVAC                                   $75
   Re-inspection                          $75
                                             N/C (100 square feet or less and/
   Decks                                  or under 18 inches tall)
                                             $100 (101 square feet or larger
                                             and/or over 18 inches tall)
                                             $50 (must check with Utility
   Fence                                  Department for easement
                                             requirements)
Swimming pool permit fees:
   In ground                              $125
   Above ground                           $50 (over 18 inches in height)
Multiple family, duplexes, apartment permit fees:
                                             $300 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Entire unit                            for the entire size of the project
                                             (includes HVAC, plumbing,
                                             electric)
Commercial permit fees:
   Each structure                         $350 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Addition                               $200 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Remodel/repair/renovate                $250 plus $0.10 per square foot
   Demolition                             $250
   Plumbing                            $150
                                             $50 (must check with Utility
   Fence                                  Department for easement
                                             requirements)
   HVAC                                   $150
   Electric - single phase                $100
   Electric - three phase                 $150
Variance:
   Residential                            $100
   Commercial                             $200
Failure to obtain permit:                    $250 + cost of permit
POLICE DEPARTMENT/LAW ENFORCEMENT
Animals, dogs
   Kennel                                 $30
   License, annually                      $2
   Pound, per day                         $10
   Running at large:                      $25
      Pick up dog                      $50
      Second offense                   $25
      If in heat, additional
                                             $100 (up to one hour of
                                             processing/redaction) + $25 for
Body camera video                            each additional 15 minutes of
                                             processing/redaction. Total not to
                                             exceed $150.
Local law enforcement continuing education   $4
(fee set by the state)
Nuisance abatement                           $10 - $300
Offenses and miscellaneous provisions:       not to exceed $100
   Air-powered weapons; forfeiture
Overweight vehicles fine                     $500
Parking:                                     not to exceed $25
   General violations                     $25
   Handicapped parking violations
Parks and Recreation:                        not more than $500
   Fine for chapter violation
Solid waste                                  $5 - $25
   Burning trash in business fire zone:   $50 plus court costs of
      First offense                    prosecution
      Second offense
Streets and sidewalks:                       cost of material and labor to
   Damage to street signs or posts        replace, per sign
Violation of "U" turns and parking           up to $500
TOWN HALL/CLERK
Copies (I.C. 5-14-3-8)                       $0.10 per page for black and white
                                             $0.25 per page for color
Franchises:                                  2% gross subscriber revenues
   Cable TV franchise fee per year
Merchant's license:                          $10
   Per day                                $50
   Per week
Mobile homes, trailers, parks                $10
   Fine for chapter violations            $20
   Mobile home permit
Permit for work in right-of-way              $25
Solicitor's permit:                          $10
   Per day                                $50
   Per week
UTILITY DEPARTMENT
Electric deposit:                            $50
   Owner                                  $100
   Owner - total electric                 $115
   Rental                                 $200
   Rental - total electric
Sewer:                                       $50
   Deposit                                $750
   Tapping fee
Water:                                       $50
   Deposit                                $450
   Tapping fee 5/8 inch to 3/4 inch meter cost of installation
   Tapping fee larger than 3/4 inch meter
 
   (B)   
Application Type Fee
Application Type                      Fee
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS APPLICATION
Variance of development standards
   Residential                     $300 + $50 per each additional standard
   Non-residential                 $600 + $50 per each additional standard
Variance of use                       $600 + $50 per acre
Special exception (conditional use)   $600 + $50 per acre
Use classification                    $300
Appeal of Director’s decision       $200
PLAN COMMISSION APPLICATIONS
Zoning Classification Change (Rezone)
   Standard zoning change          $500 + $25 per acre
   Modification to zoning commitmen$300
Subdivision
   Major subdivision
      Primary plat              $800 + $25 per lot
      Secondary plat            $500 + $25 per lot
   Minor subdivision
      Primary plat              $500 + $25 per lot
   Plat amendment (replat)         $400 + $25 per lot
   Plat vacation                   $400
   Subdivision standard waiver     $50 per waiver
Development Plan (Non-Residential)
   Detailed development plan       $500 + $50 per acre
   Development plan modification   $500 + $50 per acre
Planned Unit Development
   Preliminary plan (rezone, concept plan, ordinance)
      Residential               $800 + $25 per acre
      Non-residential (or mixed $1,000 + $50 per acre
   Detailed development plan
      Residential               $500 + $25 per acre
      Non-residential (or mixed $500 + $50 per acre
   PUD amendment
      Text only                 $500
      All others                $500 + $50 per acre
 
   (C)   
TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE REVIEW FEES
The fee paid for TAC review is based on the number of sheets in construction
plans submitted for the review or re-review as well as on the hours spent by
staff reviewing the plans. The base fee listed below covers a certain number
of hours of review as stated in the table below. If the staff spends
additional hours above the base amount of time for review, then the applicant
shall pay the town an additional $160 per hour of review.
Number of sheets Base review fee Covers the first ____ hours of review
1 to 5           $640            4
6 to 9           $960            6
10 to 19         $1,600          10
Number of sheets Base review fee Covers the first ____ hours of review
20 to 39         $2,240          14
40 to 59         $2,880          18
60 and above     $3,520          22
 
(1995 Code, App. A) (Ord. 2020-7, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-8, passed 6-7-
2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-17-2022; Ord. 2022-13, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2023-
10-01, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines and fees, see §
10.25
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
30.01   Compensation for Deputy Clerk/Treasurer
   
30.02   General Anson Mills weekend
   
30.03   Elections
   
30.04   Abolishing legislative districts
Internal Control Standards
   
30.15   Mission and objectives
   
30.16   Standards and procedures
   
30.17   Town Clerk/Treasurer and Council’s role
   
30.18   Personnel duties
   
30.19   Implementation
   
30.20   Threshold figure
   
30.21   Effective date
Statutory reference:
   Home rule, see I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION FOR DEPUTY CLERK/TREASURER.
   The Clerk/Treasurer of the town is authorized to spend up to $500 as
compensation annually for a Deputy Clerk/Treasurer.
(1995 Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 GENERAL ANSON MILLS WEEKEND.
   (A)   The last full weekend of July, 1989, and annually thereafter, is
declared as a local historical observance in honor of General Anson Mills.
   (B)   It is the wish of the Town Council that local groups, including the
Society for the Preservation of the town’s Native American heritage and others,
will present programs and local events to promote understanding and pride to
the town and those who helped establish it.
   (C)   General Anson Mills was born at the end of Lost Road (Evans Road) on
August 31, 1834, and gave the town its first complete water and sewage system
as well as the two memorial fountains which are no longer present. General
Mills approached the board of trustees on October 14, 1908, about installing a
water system. General Mills had found that many elderly people were contracting
some unknown illness. At his expense, it was discovered that the soil
conditions led to pollution in the wells. General Mills also requested and paid
for the erection of two fountains in memory of his parents. The Mills’ memorial
fountains were a source of beauty until their demise due to the state highway.
The total cost of the system for water and sewage and the fountains was
$15,000.
   (D)   It is the hope of the Town Council and organizations such as SPIH that
a weekend in honor of a man whose devotion to the people of the town led to
great community advances will be shared by others and will foster pride in the
community and perhaps inspire public projects by others.
(1995 Code, § 2-2) (Res. 1989-3, passed 3-12-1989)
§ 30.03 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)    Elections for the offices of Town Council members and Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall be conducted during general elections.
      (2)   The terms for the elected offices for the town shall be as follows.
         (a)   Town Council members. The Town Council of shall consist of five
members, all of whom shall be elected in 2015.
            1.   The three members elected to the Town Council in 2015 who
receive the three highest vote totals shall serve a three-year term beginning
on January 1, 2016. At the end of the initial three-year term, these three
seats shall be placed on the ballot in 2018, and every four years thereafter,
for a four-year term.
            2.   The two members elected to the Town Council in 2015 who
receive the two lowest vote totals shall serve a one-year term beginning
January 1, 2016. At the end of the initial one-year term, these two seats shall
be placed on the ballot in 2016, and every four years thereafter, for a four-
year term.
         (b)   Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be elected in
2015 and shall serve a three-year term beginning on January 1, 2016. At the end
of the initial three-year term, the office of Clerk/Treasurer shall be placed
on the ballot in 2018, and every four years thereafter, for a four-year term.
         (c)   Town Court Judge. The Town Court Judge shall be elected in 2015
and shall serve a three-year term beginning on January 1, 2016. At the end of
the initial three-year term, the office of Town Court Judge shall be placed on
the ballot in 2018, and every four years thereafter for a four-year term.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-3, the County Election Board shall conduct
elections for the town. The Clerk/Treasurer and the President of the Town
Council are authorized to take all action necessary to transfer authority to
conduct elections to the county.
   (C)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a signed copy of this section
to the Circuit Court Clerk and shall request the Clerk/Treasurer to include a
copy of this section in the records of the County Election Board.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 12-15-2014)
§ 30.04 ABOLISHING LEGISLATIVE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The three voting district wards are hereby abolished.
   (B)   Future members of the Town Council are to be elected at large.
   (C)   This section is effective upon passage and publication as required by
state statute.
(Ord. 2002-5, passed 10-21-2002)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 30.15 MISSION AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The town finds that its mission as related to an internal control
system is as follows:
      (1)   Provision of a democratic governmental structure at the grassroots
level;
      (2)   Provision of services as determined through the political process,
including, but not limited to, the police, fire, utilities, economic
development, parks, and the like;
      (3)   Promotion of government efficiency, accountability, reliability,
and transparency; and
      (4)   Promotion of safeguards to reduce the risk of loss due to fraud,
waste, abuse, mismanagement, or errors.
   (B)   The town finds that its interrelated and often overlapping objectives
as related to an internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives which involve the ways governmental services
are performed and the performance of those providing governmental services,
including, by way of example, budgeting, purchasing, permitting, cash
management, and planning, among others;
      (2)   Reporting objectives which involve the filing of financial and
nonfinancial information to those inside the government and those outside of
the government, including, by way of example, filing the annual report, audit,
and examination cooperation, filing uniform conflict of interest forms, and the
other filings with any governmental agency or official or information required
to be kept such as an OSHA log and responding to a public records request,
among others; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives involve the adherence to law and regulations,
including, by way of example, the following guidance documents such as the
State Board of Accounts’ manuals, bulletins, directives, and the Department of
Local Government Finance’s forms and directions and including other outside of
government trainings and documents such as IACT, among others.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.16 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town adopts and directs the minimum level of internal control
standards and internal control procedures for an internal control system that
includes the following five standards to promote government accountability and
transparency as described in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for State
Political Subdivisions guidance document from the State Board of Accounts dated
September 2015 and as thereafter modified:
      (1)   Control environment;
      (2)   Risk assessment;
      (3)   Control activities;
      (4)   Information and communication; and
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (B)   The town adopts and directs the following principles in explanation of
the pertinent standards above be followed at all levels of the town government.
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (C)   The town adopts the internal control standards above so as to
establish an effective internal control system for the town through its design,
implementation, and operation.
   (D)   The town directs that the above standards be used to design,
implement, operate, and modify current operations, reporting, and compliance
objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote reliability,
accountability, and transparency of financial and non-financial information and
to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office, department, and
personnel (as outlined in §§ 30.17 and 30.18) for an effective and reasonable
internal control system of the town.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.17 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER AND COUNCIL’S ROLE.
   (A)   The town authorizes the Clerk/Treasurer and Town Council to review the
current internal control system of the town and the Town Council to adopt a
policy for the future internal control system to be effective after June 30,
2016, and perform an annual review, or more if determined necessary for
compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The town authorizes the Town Council and Clerk/Treasurer to determine
the position and person who are the personnel referred to in §
30.18(A) and (B) and notify such personnel.
   (C)   The Town Council, as the legislative body, along with the Clerk/
Treasurer, shall constitute “management” as referred to herein and shall
perform all the internal controls system activities and duties as described
herein and in the policy to be adopted for the internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.18 PERSONNEL DUTIES.
   (A)   The personnel, whether an official or employee of the town, whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity, shall
comply with these minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other policy regarding standards and procedures determined necessary by the
town now and as modified in the future.
   (B)   The personnel of the town whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, state government, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity, shall be trained at least once during a calendar
year and annually thereafter, unless on leave status, on the minimum internal
control standards and procedures, and any other standards and procedures
determined necessary by the town and shall cooperate with the Town Fiscal
Officer or designee so that the Fiscal Officer can timely certify to the State
Board of Accounts that the training was received annually by the personnel as
provided by law.
   (C)    All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
internal control system of the town.
   (D)   An employee who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance, and certifications connected with the internal
control system commits a violation of and may result in the discipline,
including termination of the employee.
   (E)   An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or
cooperate with the implementation and the mandated certifications of the
internal control system may be subject to any action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.19 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This subchapter may be implemented by any and all of the following actions
or such others as authorized by this Council:
   (A)   Posting a copy of this subchapter in its entirety in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
   (B)   By providing a copy of this subchapter to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
   (C)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the polices
established by this subchapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.20 THRESHOLD FIGURE.
   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $750 for purposes of
internal control procedures.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
§ 30.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date of
its adoption and publication according to law.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed - -2016)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Officer’s indemnification
Town Council
   
31.15   Organization
   
31.16   Quorum
   
31.17   Meetings
Town Boards
   
31.50   Boards establishment; generally
   
31.51   Town Park Board
   
31.52   Town Planning Board
   
31.53   Town Board of Zoning Appeals
   
31.54   Department of Redevelopment
Housing Authority
   
31.65   Finding of need
   
31.66   Empowerment
Town Officials and Employees
   
31.80   Community Development Director
Advisory Planning Law and the Advisory Plan Commission
   
31.90   Advisory planning law
   
31.91   Advisory Plan Commission
Statutory reference:
   Town legislative body and executive, see I.C. 36-5-2-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OFFICER’S INDEMNIFICATION.
   The town shall indemnify the officers of the town (elected and appointed)
and hold each of them harmless for any acts or decisions made by any one of
them, individually or collectively, in good faith while performing services for
the town, and to use its best efforts to obtain coverage for the town officers
under any insurance policy now in force or hereinafter obtained during the term
of their office covering the town officers of the town against lawsuits. The
town shall pay all expenses, including attorney’s fees, actually and
necessarily incurred by the town officers in connection with the defense of
such act, suit, or proceeding, and in connection with any appeal thereon,
including the costs of court settlement.
(Res. 2007-1, passed 2-19-2007)
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 31.15 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting of the Town Council after December 31, but in no event
later than January 15 in any given year, the Council shall convene for purposes
of organizing the same for the ensuing calendar year as follows.
   (A)   The Council shall elect from its membership a President, Vice-
President, and Secretary to serve for a term of one year commencing January 1
of the year of such organization. The results of such election shall be made a
part of the official minutes of the organizational meeting.
   (B)   The Council may elect such additional officers from among its
membership as the Council shall deem convenient to the conduct of its business.
   (C)   At such time as any office shall become vacated, for whatever reason,
the Council shall conduct an election at its next regular meeting to fill such
vacancy.
(1995 Code, § 2-51)
§ 31.16 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Council shall constitute a
quorum of the Council for the transaction of business.
(1995 Code, § 2-52)
§ 31.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Council shall meet in
regular session at the times determined at the first meeting in January of each
year, at the Town Hall, and at such other times and places as the Council may
from time to time determine by motion, or upon special call by the President of
the Board, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The annual meeting for adoption of the animal budget and tax rates
shall be held at either a special or regular meeting as may be convenient, in
August or September as required by law.
   (C)   The President, on his or her own initiative, may at any time call a
special meeting of the Council upon the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   If, in the judgment of the President, the purpose of the meeting is
to meet an immediate emergency of the town, such meeting may be called by
verbal contact with the other members of the Council and the Clerk/Treasurer,
with further verbal notice to the news media as required by the State Open Door
Law.
      (2)   If the purpose of such meeting is not an immediate emergency, such
meeting may be called by giving the other members of the Council and the Clerk/
Treasurer, and the news media 48 hours verbal or written notice prior to the
convening of such meeting.
   (D)   All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the State Open Door
Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.) as follows.
      (1)   Notices as required by such law shall be given to the Lebanon
Reporter and the Jamestown Press.
      (2)   Normally, the meetings of the Council will not be the subject of a
written agenda, but will be governed by the general order of business as
hereinafter set out, however, in the event any particular meeting shall be
convened or held upon the basis of a written agenda, a copy thereof shall be
furnished the news media in accordance with the State Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-
1.5-1 et seq.).
      (3)   Any member of the public shall be permitted to address the Council
on any matter pertaining to the town or town business, whether or not a member
of the Council has presented the same before the Council for consideration, but
only after all other business of the meeting has been concluded.
      (4)   At all meetings of the Council, the Clerk/Treasurer shall secure a
written roll call of all persons present at such meeting, indicating thereon
whether such persons appear at the meeting as officials of the town, employees
of the town, agents of the town, or members of the public, and in the latter
case, the specific purpose or purposes of such attendance.
(1995 Code, § 2-53)
Statutory reference:
   Fixing and reviewing budgets, tax rates, and tax levies, see I.C. 6-1.1-17-
1 et seq.
   Town budgets, see I.C. 36-5-3-1 et seq.
TOWN BOARDS
§ 31.50 BOARDS ESTABLISHMENT; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town shall establish such boards as are deemed necessary by the
Town Council to efficiently and effectively carry out the services and
functions of the town.
   (B)   The following Boards are established:
      (1)   Town Park Board; and
      (2)   Town Planning Board.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-17-2011)
§ 31.51 TOWN PARK BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and membership. A Town Park Board is established. The
Town Park Board shall be composed of four members appointed by the Thorntown
Town Council pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4(c). The members shall be appointed on
the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. The
Thorntown Town Council waives the requirement that a member of the Town Park
Board be affiliated with the political party and that not more than two of the
four members of the Town Park Board be affiliated with the same political
party, which waiver is authorized by I.C. 36-10-3-4.1. Members of the Town Park
Board must be residents of the town, pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4. The Town Park
Board may have one ex officio member who is a member of the governing body of
Western Boone School Corporation, as selected by that body pursuant to I.C. 36-
10-3-4(c)(l)(A) or a member designated by the governing body of the Western
Boone School Corporation, pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4(c)(l)(B) and one ex
officio member of the governing body of the library district, selected by that
body. The ex officio members shall have all the rights of the regular Town Park
Board Members, including the right to vote. Members of the Town Council may not
serve on the Town Park Board. The members shall serve a four year term. All
terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues in office
until his or her successor is appointed pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-5(a). If a
vacancy on the Town Park Board occurs, the Town Council shall appoint a person
to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-5(f).
A member may be removed only for cause, upon specific written charges filed
against him or her. The charges shall be filed with and heard by the Town
Council, unless the Town Council is bringing the charges. If the Town Council
is bringing the charges, the Town Council shall appoint a hearing officer. The
person to hear the charges shall fix the date for the public hearing and give
public notice at least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the
members entitled to present evidence and argument and to be represented by
counsel.
   (B)   Powers. The Town Park Board shall have all the powers as set out in
the Park and Recreation Law (I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.). Such law is hereby
adopted and made a part of this subchapter by reference as it now is, or shall
from time to time be amended.
   (C)   Meetings. All meetings of the Town Park Board are open to the public.
The Town Park Board meetings will be held on the fourth Monday of each month at
6:00 p.m. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum. Action of the Town
Park Board is not official unless it is authorized by at least three members
present and acting. Minutes of the meetings will be kept, recorded, and
reported to the Town Council for its monthly meeting on the third Monday of
each month.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-17-2011; Ord. 2020-12, passed - -2020)
§ 31.52 TOWN PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. A Town Planning Board is established. It shall consist
of the Town Building Inspector and two members. The Town Building Inspector and
two members shall serve a one-year term and be appointed by the Town Council at
the first meeting of each year. Each member shall reside in the county.
   (B)   Powers. The Town Planning Board powers, duties, and authorities are
addressed in Ch. 150, Building Regulations, and Ch. 152, Planning and
Development; Zoning, and by the local and state building codes. Zoning issues
and variances will need final approval from the Town Council.
   (C)   Meetings. Town Planning Board meetings will be held on the second
Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Town Hall. Minutes will be kept,
recorded, and reported to the Town Council for its monthly meeting on the third
Monday of the month.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-17-2011)
§ 31.53 TOWN BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   There is hereby established a Thorntown Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901. This Board shall be known as Thorntown Advisory
Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (A)   Membership. The Thorntown Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   The Town Council President shall appoint three citizen members, of
whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and two must not be members of
the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The Town Council shall appoint one citizen member who must not be a
member of the Plan
Commission.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall appoint one member from the Plan
Commission's membership who must be a county agricultural agent or a citizen
member of the Plan Commission other than the member appointed under subdivision
(1).
      (4)   None of the members of the Town Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
may hold an elected office or any other appointed office in municipal, county
or state government, except as provided herein, and authorized by I.C. 36-7-4-
902.
      (5)   A member of the Town Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals must meet one
of the following requirements:
         (a)   The member must be a resident of the jurisdictional area of the
Board;
         (b)   The member must be a resident of the county and also an owner of
real property located in whole or in part in the town. However, at least a
majority of the total number of citizen members appointed to the Thorntown
Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals must be residents of the town. The Board shall
determine whether a member meets all applicable residency requirements for
appointment in accordance with Uniform Rules prescribed by the Board.
   (B)   Term of appointment. Upon the establishment of the Town Advisory Board
of Zoning Appeals, the members shall initially be appointed for the following
terms of office:
      (1)   One for a term of one year;
      (2)   One for a term of two years;
      (3)   One for a term of three years; and
      (4)   Two for a term of four years.
   When an initial term of office expires, each new appointment is for a term
of four years. Each term expires on the first Monday of January of the first,
second, third or fourth year respectively after the year of the member's
appointment.
   (C)   Duties and powers, organization and procedures. The duties and powers,
organization, procedure and other applicable laws governing the Town Advisory
Board of Zoning Appeals are adopted as illustrated in I.C. 36-7-4-900, et seq.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 31.54 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Department of Redevelopment established. The Town Council now deems it
to be in the best interest of the town and its citizens to afford a maximum
opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas
by private enterprise and the town by establishing a Department of
Redevelopment. The Town Council hereby establishes a Department of
Redevelopment controlled by a board of five commissioners to be known as the
Thorntown Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   Taxing district. Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the
corporate boundaries of the town will be a taxing district for the purpose of
levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as
provided in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all of the
taxable property within this special taxing district is considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects carried out under the Act to the
extent of the special taxes levied under the Act.
   (C)   Organization. The Thorntown Redevelopment Commission shall consist of
five commissioners and one non-voting advisor appointed as follows:
      (1)   Three commissioners shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council.
      (2)   Two commissioners shall be appointed by the Town Council.
      (3)   Each commissioner must be at least 18 years of age.
      (4)   Each commissioner must be a resident of the town.
      (5)   The Town Council President shall also appoint an individual to
serve as a non-voting advisor to the Thorntown Redevelopment Commission who
must also be a member of the school board of a school corporation that includes
all or part of the territory served by the Thorntown Redevelopment Commission
or an individual recommended by the school board to that entity that appoints
the non-voting advisor. A non-voting advisor is not considered a member of the
Redevelopment Commission but is entitled to attend and participate in the
proceedings of all meetings of the Redevelopment Commission. A non-voting
advisor is not entitled to a salary, per diem or reimbursement of expenses.
      (6)   A commissioner or a non-voting advisor appointed under the Act may
not have a pecuniary interest in any contract, employment, purchase or sale
made by the Commission in exercise of its powers. However, any property
required for redevelopment purposes in which a commissioner or non-voting
advisor has a pecuniary interest may be acquired but only by gift or
condemnation.
   (D)   Terms of office; election of officers; oaths; bonds.
      (1)   Each redevelopment commissioner shall serve for one year from the
first day of January after the commissioner’s appointment and until the
commissioner’s successor is appointed and has qualified. The term of office of
the original commissioners of the Thorntown Redevelopment Commission, however,
shall commence from the date of their appointment until the first day of
January in the second year after their appointment, therefore, until January 1,
2024.
      (2)   A non-voting advisor serves for a term of two years and until a
successor is appointed. The term of office of the original non-voting advisor
shall commence from the date of his or her appointment until January 1, 2025.
      (3)   If a vacancy occurs, a successor shall be appointed in the same
manner as the original commissioner, and the successor shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term.
      (4)   The Town Council President or Town Council that appointed the
redevelopment commissioner may summarily remove that commissioner from office
at any time.
      (5)   Each redevelopment commissioner, before beginning the
commissioner’s duties shall execute a bond payable to the state, with surety to
be approved by the Town Council President. The bond must be in the penal sum of
$15,000 and must be conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of
the commissioner’s office and the accounting for all monies and property that
may come into the commissioner’s hands or under the commissioner’s control. The
cost of the bond shall be paid by the town.
      (6)   The Redevelopment Commissioners shall hold a meeting for the
purpose of organization not later than 30 days after they are appointed and,
after that, each year on the first day in January that is not a Saturday or
Sunday or a legal holiday. They shall choose one of their members as president,
another as vice president, and another as secretary. These officers shall
perform the duties usually pertaining to their offices and shall serve from the
date of their election until their successors are elected and qualified.
   (E)   Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the Thorntown
Redevelopment Commission are as stipulated in the Act, as amended.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 6-20-2022)
HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 31.65 FINDING OF NEED.
   There is need for a housing authority to function in the town.
(1995 Code, § 7-26)
§ 31.66 EMPOWERMENT.
   The Housing Authority is now empowered to transact any business or exercise
its powers as provided under I.C. 36-7-18-1 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 7-27)
TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.80 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   A part-time employment position of Community Development Director for the
town is hereby established.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed - -2016)
ADVISORY PLANNING LAW AND THE ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.90 ADVISORY PLANNING LAW.
   The Indiana advisory planning law, as defined by I.C. 36-7-4-101 and
illustrated throughout I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq. is hereby adopted or readopted
by the Town of Thorntown, Indiana.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 31.91 ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a Thorntown Advisory Plan Commission, pursuant
to I.C.36-7-4-202. This Commission shall be known as Thorntown Advisory Plan
Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Thorntown Advisory Plan Commission shall consist of
seven members, as follows:
      (1)   The Town Council of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana shall appoint
three persons, who must be elected or appointed municipal officials or
employees in the municipal government, as members.
      (2)   The Town Council President shall appoint four citizen members of
whom no more than two may be of the same political patty. Each citizen member
shall be appointed because of the member's knowledge and experience in
community affairs, the member's awareness of the social, economic, agricultural
and industrial problems of the area, and the member's interest in the
development and integration of the area. A citizen member may not hold an
elected office or any other appointed office in town, county or state
government, except for membership on the Board of Zoning Appeals. A citizen
member must meet one of the following requirements: (a) as required by I.C. 36-
7-4-902; (b) the member must be a resident of the Town of Thorntown; or (c) the
member must a resident of Boone County, Indiana and also an owner of real
property located in whole or in part within the Town of Thorntown. At least a
majority of the total number of citizen members appointed to the Thorntown
Advisory Plan Commission shall be residents of the Town of Thorntown.
   (B)   Organization of Commission. The Town of Thorntown Advisory Plan
Commission shall be organized pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-300, et seq.
   (C)   Duties and powers of Commission. The duties and powers of the
Thorntown Advisory Plan Commission shall be as illustrated in I.C. 36-7-4-400
et seq.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Nepotism
   
32.02   Credit card policies and procedures
Employment Policies Generally
   
32.15   Vacation
   
32.16   Sick leave
   
32.17   Bereavement leave
   
32.18   Leave without pay
   
32.19   Holidays
   
32.20   Travel policy
   
32.21   Compensatory time off policy
Salary Procedure
   
32.30   Purpose of subchapter
   
32.31   Authority of Utility Service Board
   
32.32   Recommendation to Council
   
32.33   Effect of failure to submit proposal
   
32.34   Action by Council
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
32.45   Purpose and scope
   
32.46   Provisions
   
32.47   Employees who voluntarily seek help
Capital Asset Inventory and Capitalization Policy
   
32.60   Definitions
   
32.61   Land capitalization provisions
   
32.62   Capitalization provisions
   
32.63   Building capitalization provisions
   
32.64   Improvements other than building capitalization provisions
   
32.65   Machinery and equipment capitalization provisions
   
32.66   Infrastructure capitalization provisions
   
32.67   Construction work in progress capitalization provisions
   
32.68   Life expectancy and depreciation methods
   
Appendix A: State Certification
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 NEPOTISM.
   The Town Council states as follows.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a Nepotism and a Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative Policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C.
36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “Nepotism Policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The Town Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The Town Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirement
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21 and including all future supplements and amendments
hereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-
5-2-9.4.
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this resolution and demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance,
and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including, termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandated certifications of either
the Nepotism Policy, may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative
Policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance, and with mandated certifications of either the Nepotism Policy or
the Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy, may be subject to action
allowed by law.
   (K)   (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this resolution to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer for public
inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 2012-3, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 32.02 CREDIT CARD POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a credit card policy and procedures guideline
which is incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out
at length herein.
   (B)   Any and all use of credit cards by the town employees shall be in
accordance with said credit card policy and procedures.
(Ord. 2012-1A, passed 1-16-2012)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES GENERALLY
§ 32.15 VACATION.
   (A)   The town shall provide paid vacation for all of its employees. Such
vacation time shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Any employee working three months and one day shall receive
one day paid vacation within a given calendar year. Any employee working six
months and one day shall receive an additional one day paid vacation within a
given calendar year.
         (b)   Any employee working nine months and one day shall receive an
additional one day paid vacation within a given calendar year.
         (c)   Beginning with the tenth month, an employee shall receive an
additional two days vacation for a total of five days of paid vacation. An
employee working more than one year and less than five years shall receive one
week’s paid vacation.
      (2)   Any employee working more than five and less than ten years for the
town shall receive two weeks’ paid vacation within a given calendar year.
      (3)   Any employee working more than ten and less than 15 years shall
receive three weeks’ paid vacation within a given calendar year.
      (4)   Any employee working in excess of 15 years shall receive four
weeks’ paid vacation within a given calendar year.
   (B)   Vacation time shall not be accumulative from year to year. All
employees’ vacations are subject to approval as to timing by their immediate
superior. The town does retain the right to schedule vacations in order to
provide continuous services to the town as deemed necessary.
   (C)   Any employee, upon termination, may include a vacation period to the
date of termination if scheduling so allows, however, no accumulated vacation
will be paid unless actually taken as a result of termination of employment.
(1995 Code, § 2-106) (Ord. 1985-10, passed 11-27-1985)
§ 32.16 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   An employee of the town, to qualify for sick leave benefits and
payments, must work for at least one year to qualify. Sick leave may then be
taken for the personal illness or injury of the employee only.
      (2)   Pay for such sick leave shall be granted on the following basis.
         (a)   Any employee working for the town more than one and less than
five years shall receive a maximum of ten days’ sick leave pay at 100% of his
or her normal pay.
         (b)   Any employee working for the town more than five years and less
than ten years shall receive the first ten days of sick leave the amount of
100% of his or her regular pay and for the next 15 days shall receive 50% of
his or her regular pay.
         (c)   Any employee working for the town more than ten and less than 20
years shall receive 100% of his or her normal pay for the first ten days of
sick leave and shall receive 50% of his or her normal pay for the next 40 days.
         (d)   Any employee working for the town in excess of 20 years shall
receive 100% of his or her normal pay for the first ten days of sick leave and
shall receive 50% of his or her normal pay for the next 90 days.
   (B)   Any sick leave granted, other than that provided for in division (A)
above, shall be without pay. The employee is expected to notify his or her
immediate superior as soon as possible of his or her absence due to illness.
   (C)   Any illness exceeding three days may require a doctor’s slip at the
discretion of the Town Council establishing such illness, the probable time of
treatment and recovery.
   (D)   The Town Council will, for any legitimate illness or sickness of the
employee, grant combined paid and unpaid sick leave up to six months. Beyond
the six-month period, the Town Council reserves the right to terminate
employment at the will of the Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-107)
§ 32.17 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   Leave with pay for any employee continuously employed one year or longer by
the town will be granted for bereavement purposes upon the death of an
immediate family member, consisting of the death of a spouse, son, daughter,
mother, father, or any family member residing in the same household, with pay
for a period not to exceed three days.
(1995 Code, § 2-108)
§ 32.18 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   The Town Council may grant leave without pay upon proper application to the
employee’s immediate superior, in addition to leaves with pay and without pay,
for an extent of time to be determined on a case-by-case basis within the
discretion and the will of the Council for the following purposes: maternity
leave; extended sick leave; extended bereavement leave; and personal reason
leave.
(1995 Code, § 2-109)
§ 32.19 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The town shall observe the following holidays: one-half day New Year’s
Eve; New Year’s Day; Good Friday; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day;
Veterans’ Day; Thanksgiving Day; the day after Thanksgiving; one-half day
Christmas Eve; Christmas Day; Martin Luther King Jr. Day; Juneteenth. These
holidays shall be paid holidays for all town employees. Should the holiday fall
on a Sunday, the following Monday will be observed as the holiday, and if any
of these holidays fall on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as
a holiday.
   (B)   (1)   Due to the nature of the work required in some departments of
the town, holidays may be required to be worked.
      (2)   If an employee is required to work a holiday, such employee shall
receive compensatory time off which may be taken in the same week as the
holiday itself.
      (3)   Such holiday time shall not be accumulated. Any employee absent on
the day preceding or following a holiday will not receive compensation for such
holiday unless the absence is excused. Excused absences shall consist of
vacation, sick leave, bereavement leave or other authorized leave.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 32.20 TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   Travel defined. Travel, for purposes of this policy, shall be defined
as traveling more than 20 miles outside the town limits on official town
business, as authorized and directed by the Town Council.
   (B)   Travel authorization. All travel shall be pre-approved by the Town
Council.
   (C)   Mileage reimbursement. Town officials and town employees traveling on
official town business shall be reimbursed for mileage actually traveled in
transportation furnished by the official's or employee's own vehicle at the
federal reimbursement rate in effect when the travel occurs. Mileage incurred
during the official's or employee's commute to or from their typical place of
employment is not reimbursable under this policy. If more than one employee or
official travels in the same vehicle, only one reimbursement for mileage is
permitted. Even if a town-owned vehicle is available, the preferred method of
travel is for the official or employee to use his or her own vehicle to travel
on official town business.
   (D)   Reimbursement for meal and incidental expenses. Officials and
employees traveling on official town business may claim reimbursement for
actual expenses incurred by submitting to the Clerk/Treasurer itemized receipts
for their meals, tax on meals, gratuities, and other incidental expenses
including taxi fees, parking and toll booth expenses. The maximum amount for
reimbursement for meals, tax on meals and gratuities shall be ten dollars for
breakfast, $15 for lunch and $25 for dinner. If meals are provided as part of
conference registration fees, officials and employees attending conferences
shall not be allowed reimbursement for meal expenses incurred during the
conference. All claims for reimbursement for meals, tax on meals, gratuities
and incidental expenses must be made on the proper form and submitted to the
Clerk/Treasurer.
   (E)   Lodging. Officials and employees traveling on official town business
may claim reimbursement for overnight lodging by submitting to the Clerk/
Treasurer their paid receipt from the hotel. No reimbursement shall be made for
other charges incurred during the overnight lodging, such as, but not limited
to, phone calls, movies, room service, laundry, etc. Lodging expenses for
travel requiring only one overnight stay shall only be allowed where the travel
destination is 50 miles or further from the official's or employee's residence.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-19-18)
§ 32.21 COMPENSATORY TIME OFF POLICY.
   (A)   The Town of Thorntown, Indiana, may, at the discretion of the Town
Council and/or department heads, elect to utilize compensatory time off "comp
time" in lieu of monetary compensation for overtime hours worked by eligible
town employees. When compensatory time off is substituted for overtime pay, the
employee shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half hours of comp
time off for every hour worked over 40 hours in a work week or work period.
   (B)   An eligible employee may accrue a balance of 80 hours of comp time.
When the eligible employee has accrued 80 hours of compensatory time off, he or
she shall be paid overtime for any hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a work
week until such accrued balance is reduced to below 80 hours. However, if there
are instances where it would be appropriate for an employee to accrue more than
80 hours of comp time, the department head may approve this additional accrual
of comp time at his or her discretion.
   (C)   Employees must submit requests to use earned comp time to their
department head. Department heads shall allow eligible employees to use accrued
comp time within a reasonable period of time after the employee has made such a
request, subject to the department head's discretion after considering the
needs of the department and in a manner that will not unduly disrupt the
operations of the department.
   (D)   Eligible employees must use comp time within 90 days of the date that
the comp time was earned, unless they have sought and received permission from
the Town Council to extend the time within which they need to use their comp
time. If the employee fails to use their comp time within 90 days of the date
that the comp time was earned and has either failed to seek an extension from
the Town Council, or was denied an extension within which to use their comp
time, the Town Council shall have the discretion to either extend the time
within which the employee may use their comp time or pay out any comp time
which has been earned at least 90 days prior at a rate of one and one-half (1
½) times the employee's hourly rate at the time the comp time was earned.
   (E)   Accrued comp time hours may be carried forward from calendar year to
calendar year upon approval by the Town Council.
   (F)   Each eligible employee who will be given comp time in lieu of overtime
pay shall execute a separate comprehensive time off agreement, which is
attached to Ordinance 2021-7 and is incorporated herein by reference.
   (G)   Upon separation of employment, the town shall pay out to the employee
his or her accrued but unused comp time balance.
(Ord. 2021-7, passed 6-7-2021)
SALARY PROCEDURE
§ 32.30 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow the Town Council the opportunity
to review all proposed salary and wage increases of all town employees,
including employees of the Utility Department, prior to the time for such
increases to go into effect.
(1995 Code, § 2-121) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-13-1985)
§ 32.31 AUTHORITY OF UTILITY SERVICE BOARD.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a)(1), the Utility Service Board shall fix the
number and compensation of employees subject to final approval of the Board at
which time the Council may lower, but not raise such salaries and wages.
(1995 Code, § 2-122) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-13-1985)
§ 32.32 RECOMMENDATION TO COUNCIL.
   In order to assist the Council during budget planning, the Utility Service
Board shall submit to the Council all proposed salary and wage increases for
the coming year for all salaried employees, including hourly rate employees and
supervisors, salaried or hourly, with such proposals submitted no later than
the second meeting in May of the year prior to the effective increase.
(1995 Code, § 2-123) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-13-1985)
§ 32.33 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO SUBMIT PROPOSAL.
   Failure to submit a proposal pursuant to §
32.32 will result in a rejection of any increase proposed to the extent that
funds for such increase come from sewage, water, and electric rates.
(1995 Code, § 2-124) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-13-1985)
§ 32.34 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council may reject or lower any proposed increases in salary or wages
and upon action being taken by the Council, the Clerk/Treasurer shall notify
the Utility Service Board of any action so taken.
(1995 Code, § 2-125) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 3-13-1985)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 32.45 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The town is committed to providing a safe and productive work environment
for its employees. To accomplish this objective, appropriate policies are
implemented from time to time which are consistent with the spirit and intent
of this commitment. With this in mind, the town has developed this drug-free
workplace policy, the purposes of which are to establish and maintain a work
environment that is free from the effects of illegal drug use and alcohol abuse
and to help employees overcome any alcohol or drug abuse problem they may have.
This policy includes pre-employment drug screen testing of job applicants, but
not random testing of employees. This policy is applicable to all employees
regardless of title or position and includes temporary and part-time employees.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 9-16-1996)
§ 32.46 PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Before any applicant for employment is hired, he or she or she will be
tested for the presence of illegal drugs. Applicant testing will be done as a
regular part of pre-employment screening as a condition of the job offer.
APPLICANTS include all regular full-time and part-time, all rehires unless
reinstated within 30 days, and all temporaries who will be on the payroll.
Should an applicant test positive on an initial test, a confirmatory test will
be made on the same sample. If the confirmatory test is also positive, the
applicant will be denied employment. An applicant who declines to submit to
testing will be denied employment. Applicants who are denied employment because
of a positive test may re-apply for employment and be retested after one year
from time of initial rejection.
   (B)   Whenever testing is required under the policy, the town will, when
possible, direct the applicant to submit a urine sample. If a urine test is not
possible, then a blood sample will be required.
   (C)   At the town’s sole discretion, any employee who uses, sells,
manufactures, participates in the distribution of, possesses, or is found to be
under the influence of illegal drugs on town property or while on town
business, or who uses, possesses or is found to be under the influence of
alcohol on town property, is subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination of employment.
   (D)   (1)   In addition, at the town’s sole discretion, the town may provide
any employee the option to voluntarily participate in an approved assistance or
rehabilitation program. If such option is offered, any leave of absence will be
consistent with the present policies and practices of the town.
      (2)   Any employee who voluntarily participates in an approved assistance
or rehabilitation program will be fully responsible for his or her costs
incurred in such treatment or related treatment if such costs are not covered
through any group medical insurance in which the employee is enrolled.
   (E)   The town also reserves the right to make a search of the town’s
premises and other town-owned property if a violation of this policy is
suspected.
   (F)   Any employee who uses, sells, manufactures, participates in the
distribution of, or possesses illegal drugs may be reported to the appropriate
law enforcement agency which may result in criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 9-16-1996)
§ 32.47 EMPLOYEES WHO VOLUNTARILY SEEK HELP.
   (A)   The town recognizes that substance abuse is a medical problem which
can be successfully treated. Almost all substance abusers deny they have a
problem and ordinarily they do not seek treatment voluntarily. This denial is
the single most significant obstacle to successful treatment.
   (B)   Recognizing this reality, although the town encourages voluntary
substance abuse treatment, the town will take disciplinary action against
employees who violate this policy and who do not seek treatment. This action is
designed to break through a denial barrier and convince substance abusing
employees of the need for treatment.
   (C)   (1)   Early recognition and treatment of substance abuse is important
for successful rehabilitation and for reduced personal, family, and social
disruption.
      (2)   The town encourages the earliest possible diagnosis and treatment
for substance abuse and supports sound treatment efforts, however, the decision
to seek diagnosis and accept treatment for substance abuse is the individual
employee’s responsibility.
   (D)   Employees who voluntarily request assistance in dealing with a
substance abuse problem (prior to violation under this policy) will be offered
a leave of absence option consistent with the present policies and practices of
the town.
   (E)   Voluntary treatment for substance abuse will not prevent disciplinary
action for violation of the town’s drug-free workplace policy or other
policies, nor will it relieve employees from responsibility for his or her job
performance. Employees who undergo voluntary counseling or treatment and who
continue to work must meet all established standards of conduct in job
performance.
   (F)   Note: Town-sponsored functions are excepted.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 9-16-1996)
CAPITAL ASSET INVENTORY AND CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 32.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSETS, PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Tangible assets of durable
nature, employed in the operating activities of the town and relatively
permanent and needed for the production or sale of goods or services, are
termed PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND CAPITAL ASSETS. This broad group is
usually separated into classes according to the physical characteristics of the
items.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes accounting for costs of town-owned land,
infrastructure, buildings, improvements other than buildings, machinery and
equipment, as well as construction in progress; acquiring land and
infrastructure, as well as installing infrastructure or structure construction
or improvement of buildings,  adding improvements other than buildings; and
machinery and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period
of usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or
addition to the town’s capital assets. To meet The Indiana State Board of
Accounts requirements for fixed asset reports for 2021 and thereafter, all
items will have life expectancies established with depreciated values on an
annual basis, with the exception of land which is never depreciated.
Documentation of costing sources: architects, engineering firms, project
managers, and construction companies, life expectancy tables, cost indexes and
other means for establishing known or estimated historical costs will be
provided.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise, where
the intent of the town is that the expenses, including depreciation of
providing goods and services to the general public on a continuing basis, be
financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or, where the town has
decided that periodic determination of revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/
or net income is appropriate for capital maintenance, public policy, management
control, accountability and other purposes. The enterprise funds of the town
include the municipally-owned water, wastewater and electric utilities, and any
other utility that may be established by the Town Council. Operation of these
utilities shall require enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
   HISTORICAL COST. The case equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, infrastructure, buildings, improvements other
than buildings, machinery and equipment, and construction in progress are town
examples of categories of items to be recognized under the historical cost
attribute.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses that may be seen and touched.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.61 LAND CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost,
except payments for land use purchased outright as easements or rights-of-way
for infrastructure.
   (B)   The original historical cost of land will include the known or
estimated full value, including purchase price, relocation payments to former
owners, legal services incidental to the purchase (including title work and
opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying and costs for preparing the
land for its intended purpose (including contractors’ and/or town workers’
salaries and benefits) and for services, such as demolishing buildings,
excavating, cleanup and/or inspection. Information from county offices
including Auditor’s Office, Assessor’s Office and Recorder’s Office will be
researched and included in the capital asset report.
   (C)   The town will account for donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs necessary for making the land usable
for its intended purpose.
   (D)   Land purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
above provisions as indicated above.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.62 CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize infrastructure with estimated or known
historical costs at or above the $5,000 threshold for construction. Engineering
and other professional service fees such as surveying will be included.
   (B)   Examples of town infrastructure include roads and streets, street
lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs, street signals, and
storm water collection systems. Known or estimated costs of these assets in
current existence shall be included. Additions to these assets will only be
included if the total cost including any associated fees is at or above the
$5,000 threshold. Milling and paving projects will be considered as maintenance
and such costs shall be expensed. Replacement of infrastructure will be
included if the total cost is $50,000 or greater. Enterprise systems include
electric distribution systems, water distribution systems, and wastewater
collection systems. Known or estimated costs of these assets in current
existence shall be included. For the electric system in current existence,
itemized system components shall be included with transformers, line closers
and other system components that have known or estimated historical costs of
$5,000 or greater. Additions to the electric system will include individual
assets or projects that have costs of $5,000 or greater. Replacements of
electric distribution system components will be capitalized if the project
total cost is $50,000 or greater. Accounting for the existing water system will
include line known or estimated costs. In line valves, fire hydrants, and water
meters will be expensed except those valves over $5,000 and newer fire hydrants
that have installation costs of $5,000 or greater. Additions to water
infrastructure will be included if the project cost is $5,000 or greater.
Replacement of water lines will be capitalized if the project total is $50,000
or greater. Wastewater collection lines already in existence will be accounted
for. Known wastewater project costs will be included. For all enterprise
infrastructures historical cost of lines other than those accounted for with
projects will be included with known or estimated sizes and estimated current
cost with appropriate cost index percentages from a nationally recognized index
table source.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.63 BUILDING CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize existing buildings that are at or over $5,000
cost at full cost with no subcategories for the cost of attachments. Examples
of attachments are roofs, windows and doors, mechanical, plumbing, electrical,
sprinkler systems or any part of the basic building. The town will include the
cost of items designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
Capitalization of building costs will include the preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, accounting costs of material and
any costs directly attributable to the construction of a building.
   (B)   New buildings will be capitalized only if the new building meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Improvements or renovations to an existing building will be
capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
   (D)   Replacement of roofs or other building components such as HVAC systems
will be expensed unless the project totals greater than $100,000.
   (E)   Donated buildings will be recorded at fair market value on the date of
transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Building purchases using federal or state funding will follow the
above provisions of divisons (A) through (E) as listed above.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.64 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDING CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize existing improvements, other than buildings
attached or not easily removed, that have a life expectancy of greater than two
years. Examples include walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, signs, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, underground
sprinkler systems and other improvements on town property. Known or estimated
historical cost of these assets will be included. For improvements other than
buildings where historical cost is not known, current replacement cost will be
calculated then based on known or estimated dates of acquisition and historical
cost will be designated by using a cost index table of percentages.
Improvements do not include roads, streets, sidewalks, or assets that are of
value only to the public.
   (B)   New improvements other than buildings will be capitalized if the new
improvements meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Improvements or renovations to existing improvements other than
buildings will be capitalized only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (D)   Donated improvements will be recorded at fair market value on the date
of transfer with any associated costs.
   (E)   Improvements other than building purchases using federal or state
funding will follow the above divisions (A) and (B).
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.65 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize currently owned machinery and equipment that
is not a part of a basic structure or building and that has a life expectancy
of greater than two years. Examples include trucks, cars, machinery, furniture,
computer equipment and other similar items that have a known or estimated
historical cost of $5,000 or greater. Where historical cost is not known
current replacement cost will be calculated then based on known or estimated
dates of acquisition and historical cost will be designated by using a cost
index table of percentages.
   (B)   New machinery and equipment will be capitalized only if the new
machinery or equipment meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Improvements or renovations to an existing machinery or equipment will
be capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
   (D)   Capitalization of machinery and equipment costs will include shipping
charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly associated with the
purchase, delivery or set up, which makes such machinery or equipment operable
for its intended purpose. Cost of attachments for machinery and equipment shall
be included since they are necessary for using the asset for its intended
purpose.
   (E)   Donated machinery and equipment will be recorded at fair market value
on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Machinery and equipment purchases using federal or state funding will
follow the above divisions (A) through (D).
   (G)   Repairs and maintenance will not be capitalized such as: collisions,
engine replacements, maintenance, and the like. They will be expensed even if
they meet the threshold of $5,000 or greater.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.66 INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town will capitalize infrastructure that has a life expectancy of
greater than two years. Examples include streets, bike/jogging paths, storm
sewers, sewer lines, parking lots, streetlights and retention/detention ponds
infrastructure does not include sidewalks.
   (B)   New infrastructure will only be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   Meters will be expensed rather than capitalized.
   (D)   Improvements or renovations to existing infrastructure will be
capitalized only if the result meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years.
   (E)   Maintenance/repairs will be considered necessary to maintain the
existing asset, and therefore, not capitalized. For example, patching,
resurfacing, snow removal, and the like, are considered maintenance activities
and will be expensed. Also, normal department operating activities such as
feasibility studies will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of the
infrastructure asset.
   (F)   Donated infrastructure will be recorded at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (G)   Infrastructure purchases using federal or state funding will follow
the above provisions.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.67 CONSTRUCTION WORK IN PROGRESS CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   Where construction work has not been completed in the current calendar year,
the cost of the project shall be recorded as “construction work in progress.”
When the project is complete, the project will be recorded to the applicable
capital asset item type account and only if the capital asset meets the
required conditions.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 32.68 LIFE EXPECTANCY AND DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The town will indicate life expectancy for each asset by using a
national table and/or generally accepted life expectancy for specific items.
Depreciation of capital assets will be calculated using the straight-line
method. There will be no salvage value used. Depreciation will be calculated at
year-end. The asset’s current life year and ensuing depreciation shall begin
the year after the year purchased (example: the asset purchased in 2021; the
2022 current life and depreciation year is one). Land is not depreciated
according to general accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   Straight-line depreciation. All assets accounted for under the capital
asset policy will be depreciated using the straight-line method of
depreciation. A gain or loss on disposal will be recorded. Following is a list
of the most town useful lives:
 
ASSET                             USEFUL LIFE (years)
Land                              Not depreciation
Infrastructure                    20 to 50
Buildings                         15 to 50
Improvements other than buildings 10 to 50
Machinery and equipment           3 to 20
Construction in progress          Not depreciated
 
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-14, passed 11-20-2023)
APPENDIX A: STATE CERTIFICATION
In accordance with the applicable statutes and the regulations governing the
consolidated plan regulations, the state certifies that:
Drug Free Workplace - It will or will continue to provide a drug- free
workplace by:
1. Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is
prohibited in the grantee’s workplace and specifying the actions that will be
taken against employees for violation of such prohibition;
2. Establishing an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees
about:
   (a)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
   (b)   The grantee’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
   (c)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance
programs; and
   (d)   The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse
violations occurring in the workplace;
3. Making it a requirement that each employee to be engaged in the performance
of the grant be given a copy of the statement required by paragraph 1;
4. Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph 1 that, as a
condition of employment under the grant, the employee will:
   (a)   Abide by the terms of the statement; and
   (b)   Notify the employer in writing of his or her conviction for a
violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace no later than
five calendar days after such conviction;
5. Notifying the agency in writing, within ten calendar days after receiving
notice under subparagraph 4(b) from an employee or otherwise receiving actual
notice of such conviction. Employers of convicted employees must provide
notice, including position title, to every grant officer or other designee on
whose grant activity the convicted employee was working, unless the federal
agency has designated a central point for the receipt of such notices. Notice
shall include the identification number(s) of each affected grant;
6. Taking one of the following actions, with 30 calendar days of receiving
notice under subparagraph (b), with respect to any employee who is so
convicted;
   (a)   Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to
and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; or
   (b)   Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a federal,
state, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency;
7. Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace
through implementation of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Handguns; Training Fund
   
33.01   Application for license
   
33.02   Qualification for license
   
33.03   Fee; issuance of license
   
33.04   Fund establishment; purpose
   
33.05   Additional fees authorized; deposit into Fund
Fund for Continuing Education
   
33.20   Established
   
33.21   Fees imposed
   
33.22   Collection of fees; deposit
   
33.23   Use of Fund
Reserves
   
33.35   Establishment
   
33.36   Purpose of subchapter
   
33.37   Policies
   
33.38   Administrator
   
33.39   Qualifications
   
33.40   Training
   
33.41   Dismissal
   
33.42   Insurance
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines and fees, see §
10.25
Statutory reference:
   1977 Police Officers’ and Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund, see
I.C. 36-8-8-1 et seq.
   Police leaves of absence, see I.C. 36-8-5-1 et seq.
   Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-1 et seq.
HANDGUNS; TRAINING FUND
§ 33.01 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A person desiring a license to carry a handgun shall apply to the Marshal if
the person resides in the town.
(1995 Code, § 8-26)
Statutory reference:
   Handguns, see I.C. 35-47-2-1 et seq.
§ 33.02 QUALIFICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A license to carry a handgun shall not be issued to a person who has been
convicted of a felony or who is under 18 years of age or who otherwise does not
meet the criteria set out in I.C. 35-47-2-3.
(1995 Code, § 8-27)
§ 33.03 FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon acceptance of the application for handgun license, the officer shall
collect from the applicant an application fee as provided in I.C. 35-47-2-3.
The license shall be issued as provided in that statute.
(1995 Code, § 8-28)
§ 33.04 FUND ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a Law Enforcement Training Fund and all fees
collected from the applications for a handgun license shall be deposited in
such Fund and used exclusively for the purpose of training law enforcement
officers in the proper use of firearms or other law enforcement duties.
(1995 Code, § 8-29)
§ 33.05 ADDITIONAL FEES AUTHORIZED; DEPOSIT INTO FUND.
   (A)   Upon request, the Town Marshal or his or her Deputy Marshal may issue
a copy of a police report in the discretion of the officer to whom the request
was made.
   (B)   The fee for such copy will be as set from time to time by the Council.
   (C)   A fee, as set from time to time by the Council, will be charged when a
police officer for the town completes a state title certifying the vehicle
identification number.
(1995 Code, § 8-30)
FUND FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION
§ 33.20 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund in the town.
(1995 Code, § 8-51) (Ord. 1987-6, passed 11-9-1987)
§ 33.21 FEES IMPOSED.
   The Fund established by this subchapter shall consist of fees collected
under I.C. 33-37. A local law enforcement continuing education fee in an amount
set from time to time by the Council shall be taxed in each case where a
defendant is found to have committed a violation of a provision of this code of
ordinances or ordinance of the town.
(1995 Code, § 8-52) (Ord. 1987-6, passed 11-9-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 33.22 COLLECTION OF FEES; DEPOSIT.
   At least monthly, the Clerk of the Court shall deposit all money collected
under this subchapter with the Clerk/Treasurer of the town. The Clerk/Treasurer
shall deposit each fee collected into the local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund.
(1995 Code, § 8-53) (Ord. 1987-6, passed 11-9-1987)
§ 33.23 USE OF FUND.
   (A)   The Police Department may receive money under this subchapter if it
files a claim with the town December 1 and June 1 of each year with the Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   The claim must include a statement identifying each cause upon which
the claim is based by court and cause number and must be a fee collected during
the previous six-month period ending December 15 and June 15. Once the Police
Department has claimed and received the fees collected, the Fund shall be
established to account for such fees.
   (C)   The funds received in this Fund by the police shall be used for the
continuing education and training of law enforcement officers employed by the
town.
   (D)   Expenditures from this Fund must have a prior appropriation and can be
made only after a claim has been processed in the usual manner.
(1995 Code, § 8-54) (Ord. 1987-6, passed 11-9-1987)
RESERVES
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a police reserves force subject to the laws of
the state and the provisions of this code of ordinances and ordinances of the
town.
(1995 Code, § 8-76) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.36 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish and set up guidelines for the
operation of the volunteer police reserve unit serving the town.
(1995 Code, § 8-77) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.37 POLICIES.
   The following policies shall control the appointment and function of the
police reserves.
   (A)   The police reserves force is a volunteer function of the Police
Department authorized by the Town Council. The authorized strength is 15
members.
   (B)   The reserves shall function within the policy guidelines, rules, and
regulations established for all regular officers of the Department.
   (C)   (1)   Reserve officers shall be appointed and sworn by the Town
Council and Town Marshal and be identified and function as Deputy Marshals.
      (2)   As deputies, they shall perform their duties as law officers for
the town as assigned by the Town Marshal.
(1995 Code, § 8-78) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 2000-7, passed 12-18-
2000; Ord. 2018-4, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 33.38 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The administration of the reserves shall be the Town Marshal with chief
administration duties, including determining official policy, with the approval
of the Town Council, together with full and complete discharge of all duties
imposed on him or her by law.
(1995 Code, § 8-79) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.39 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The basic qualifications necessary to become a reserve officer are as
follows.
   (A)   All applicants will pass the minimum requirements before being
considered for appointment as a Reserve Deputy Marshal.
   (B)   All applicants must:
      (1)   Be an American citizen;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Meet weight and height proportional to good health;
      (4)   Be a high school graduate or G.E.D. equivalent;
      (5)   Have no felony convictions;
      (6)   Possess a current state driver’s license;
      (7)   Submit to a character background investigation; and
      (8)   Submit to a lie detector test.
(1995 Code, § 8-80) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.40 TRAINING.
   The applicant under this subchapter will undergo training on the job,
seminars, and other, so as to promote proficiency in various types of police
work. Each reserve officer shall receive written policy guidelines setting out
training requirements, duties, and other obligations.
(1995 Code, § 8-81) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.41 DISMISSAL.
   (A)   A reserve officer may be discharged at any time for any reason and he
or she shall not be entitled to any hearing as to his or her discharge.
   (B)   The volunteers are subject to the rules and regulations of the town
and may be dismissed without cause.
(1995 Code, § 8-82) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 33.42 INSURANCE.
   Each reserve officer shall provide proof of adequate insurance to cover
liability for acts he or she performs while on the job and for injury to
himself, herself, or for others.
(1995 Code, § 8-83) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 5-14-1986)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Claim payment
   
34.02   Alternate signer on town accounts
   
34.03   Electronic fund transfers and online banking
   
34.04   Blanket bond or crime insurance policy
Funds
   
34.15   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
34.16   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.17   Electric Cash Reserve Fund
   
34.18   Cash Change Fund
   
34.19   Fund 249 (Public Safety)
   
34.20   Fund 176 (ARP)
   
34.21   Fund 168 (COVID 19 Phase 3)
   
34.22   Wastewater Construction Fund
   
34.23   Wastewater Bond & Interest Fund
   
34.24   Debt Reserve Fund
   
34.25   Fund 2257 (Opioid Settlement Restricted)
   
34.26   Fund 2256 (Opioid Settlement Unrestricted)
   
34.27   Fund 2506 (Law Enforcement Recording Fund)
Purchasing Policies
   
34.30   Invitations and requests
   
34.31   Receiving offers
   
34.32   Small purchases
   
34.33   Designated purchasing agents; limitations
   
34.34   Purchases not specifically authorized
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CLAIM PAYMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer be allowed to pay certain types of claims prior to
Council allowance, which could include:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The U.S. government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the U.S. government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the money
advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statue;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)    A product or service for which the Town Council has accepted a
bid.
   (B)   Such payments must be supported by a fully itemized claim or bill and
certified by the Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Council shall review and allow the
claim at the next regular or special meeting following pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed - -2016)
§ 34.02 ALTERNATE SIGNER ON TOWN ACCOUNTS.
   In the event of an illness or injury that temporarily renders the Town
Clerk/Treasurer incapable of fulfilling his or her duties of Financial Officer,
the Town Council President is hereby designated to be the alternate signer of
the town account, the payroll account, and the three utility accounts
(electric, sewer, and water), until such time when the Clerk/Treasurer is able
to return to his or her duties.
(Res. passed 10-25-2007)
§ 34.03 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The
Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to use an electronic funds transfer method of
payment of claims/invoices.
   (B)   Definition. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-11.5(a), ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER
for purposes of this section means any transfer of funds, other than a
transaction originated by check, draft or similar paper instrument, that is
initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, or computer or magnetic
tape for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial
institution to debit or credit an account.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk/Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Res. 2021-4, passed 2-15-2021)
§ 34.04 BLANKET BOND OR CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   The town, acting through the Town Clerk/Treasurer, is authorized to
purchase, as needed, a blanket bond, crime insurance policy or a name or
position schedule bond that provides coverage for criminal acts or omissions
committed (for crime insurance policy), is endorsed to include faithful
performance to cover the faithful performance of and includes aggregate
coverage sufficient to provide coverage amounts specified by law or by the
State Board of Accounts, whichever is higher, for:
   (A)   Employees and contractors whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the federal government, the state, a political subdivision, or
another governmental entity in an amount that exceeds $5,000 per year.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Utility Clerk.
   (D)   Employees directed to maintain a bond by the Town Council.
   (E)   Redevelopment Commission members.
   (F)   Other individuals required by law or by the Town Council to be bonded.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 2-19-2024)
FUNDS
§ 34.15 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   The town hereby authorizes the establishment of a Fund designated the LOIT
Special Distribution Fund (Fund 257) to account for monies from the one-time
special LOIT distribution.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 34.16 RAINY DAY FUND.
   The town hereby authorizes the establishment of a fund designated as a
“Rainy Day Fund” that can be used to address various types of transportation in
the town.
(Res. 2004-1, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 34.17 ELECTRIC CASH RESERVE FUND.
   The Town Council shall establish an Electric Cash Reserve Fund which purpose
shall be to fund water utilities of the town; that the Town Council may
transfer pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3 to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 34.18 CASH CHANGE FUND.
   The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town of Thorntown be allowed to establish a Cash
Change Fund, subject to the following provisions of I.C. 36-1-8-2:
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer has a duty to collect cash revenues;
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer from time to time must make change when collecting
cash revenues;
   (C)   The Cash Change Fund shall be established by a warrant drawn on the
appropriate fund of the political subdivision in favor of the officer (Clerk/
Treasurer), in the amount of $150, without need for appropriation;
   (D)   The Clerk/Treasurer who establishes the fund shall convert the warrant
to cash and use it to make change when collecting cash revenues;
   (E)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall account for the Cash Change Fund in the same
manner as is required for other funds of the political subdivision;
   (F)   The fiscal body shall require the entire Cash Change Fund to be
returned to the appropriate fund whenever there is a change in the custodian of
the fund or the fund is no longer needed; and
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after passage.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 34.19 FUND 249 (PUBLIC SAFETY).
   (A)   The Town of Thorntown hereby authorizes the establishment of a fund
designated the Public Safety Fund (Fund 249) to account for monies from the
Boone County Law Enforcement Tax.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Thorntown has need to establish Fund
249 to deposit and to account for funds received from the Boone County Law
Enforcement Tax (LIT). Monies received into this fund may be spent according to
I.C. 6-3.6-2-14 (I.C. 6-3.6-2-14 Public Safety) as follows:
      (1)   A police and law enforcement system to preserve public peace and
order;
      (2)   A firefighting and fire prevention system;
      (3)   Emergency ambulance services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-107);
      (4)   Emergency medical services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110);
      (5)   Emergency action (as defined in I.C. 13-11-2-65);
      (6)   A probation department of a court;
      (7)   Confinement, supervision, services under a community corrections
program (as defined in I.C. 35-38-2.6-2), or other correctional services for a
person who has been:
         (a)   Diverted before a final hearing or trial under an agreement that
is between the county prosecuting attorney and the person or the person's
custodian, guardian, or parent and that provides for confinement, supervision,
community corrections services, or other correctional services instead of a
final action described in division (B)(7)(b) or (B)(7)(c);
         (b)   Convicted of a crime; or
         (c)   Adjudicated as a delinquent child or a child in need of
services.
      (8)   A juvenile detention facility under I.C. 31-31-8;
      (9)   A juvenile detention center under I.C. 31-31-9;
      (10)   A county jail;
      (11)   A communications system (as defined in I.C. 36-8-15-3), an
enhanced emergency telephone system (as defined in I.C. 36-8-16-2, before its
repeal on July 1, 2012), or the statewide 911 system (as defined in I.C. 36-8-
16.7-22);
      (12)   Medical and health expenses for jailed inmates and other confined
persons;
      (13)   Pension payments for any of the following:
         (a)   A member of a fire department (as defined in I.C. 36-8-1-8) or
any other employee of the fire department;
         (b)   A member of a police department (as defined in I.C. 36-8-1-9), a
police chief hired under waiver under I.C. 36-8-1-6.5, or any other employee
hired by the police department;
         (c)   A county sheriff or any other member of the office of the county
sheriff; or
         (d)   Other personnel employed to provide a service described in this
section.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 34.20 FUND 176 (ARP).
   (A)   Fund established. Pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1, the
Town Council does hereby create Fund No. 176 which is designated as the ARP
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund and shall be the depository fund for
allocations received through the ARP.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The town hereby adopts a plan to appropriate and
utilize the funds only for the following purposes, as permitted by law. This
plan may be amended in the future to provide more specific details on the use
of the funds.
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure.
   (C)   Internal controls shall be designated, implemented, and documented to
provide reasonable assurance that the ARP funds will be safeguarded and used in
accordance with the ARP.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 34.21 FUND 168 (COVID 19 PHASE 3).
   (A)   Fund established. The Town Council does hereby create Fund #168 which
is designated as the Community Development Block Grant Covid 19 Phase 3 Fund
and shall be the depository fund for CDBG funds.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The CDBG funds shall be used in accordance with grant
requirements and instructions.
   (C)   Internal controls shall be designated, implemented, and documented to
provide reasonable assurance that the CDBG funds will be safeguarded and used
in accordance with the grant requirements.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 34.22 WASTEWATER CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   A Construction Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established. The wastewater
utility shall transfer into the Fund all monies it receives to be used for
project construction and construction related costs;
   (B)   The wastewater utility shall use the revenues in the Fund only to pay
approved construction and construction related costs of the project.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 34.23 WASTEWATER BOND & INTEREST FUND.
   (A)   A Wastewater Bond & Interest Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established. The
wastewater utility shall make the necessary and required monthly transfers into
the Fund to pay for the semi-annual principal and interest on the project
financing;
   (B)   The wastewater utility shall use the revenues in the Fund to pay for
the necessary and required semi-annual principal and interest payments on the
wastewater utility construction project financing.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 34.24 DEBT RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   A Debt Reserve Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established. The wastewater
utility shall make the necessary and required monthly transfers into the Fund
as is required by the covenants in the loan agreement to the Project financing;
   (B)   The wastewater utility shall use the revenues in the Fund only to pay
required principal and interest payments on the project financing that are not
available to be made from the Bond & Interest Fund.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 34.25 FUND 2257 (OPIOID SETTLEMENT RESTRICTED).
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana, ordains that the
Clerk/Treasurer be and is authorized to provide, dedicate, and create one new
account for the town as follows: Fund No. 2257 Opioid Settlement Reestricted.
   (B)   Expenditures from Fund No. 2257 shall be made by appropriation by the
Town Council.
   (C)   The Funds shall be perpetual until terminated by ordinance of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 2-20-2023; Ord. 2023-3-A, passed 3-20-2023)
§ 34.26 FUND 2256 (OPIOID SETTLEMENT UNRESTRICTED).
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana, ordains that the
Clerk/Treasurer be and is authorized to provide, dedicate, and create one new
account for the Town of Thorntown as follows: Fund No. 2256 Opioid Settlement
Unrestricted.
   (B)   Expenditures from Fund No. 2256 shall be made by appropriation by the
Town Council.
   (C)   The Funds shall be perpetual until terminated by ordinance of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 3-20-2023)
§ 34.27 FUND 2506 (LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDING FUND).
   (A)   Fund established. The Town Council of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana,
does hereby create Fund No. 2506 which is designated as the Law Enforcement
Recording Fund which shall be the depository fund for funds received from
public records requests for law enforcement recordings.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All money in the Law Enforcement Recording Fund may be
used without appropriation for one or more of the following purposes: to
purchase cameras and other equipment for use in connection with the agency’s
law enforcement recording program; for training concerning law enforcement
recording; to defray the expenses of storing, producing, and copying law
enforcement recordings.
   (C)   Internal controls. Internal controls shall be designated, implemented,
and documented to provide reasonable assurance that the Law Enforcement
Recording Funds will be safeguarded and used in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 8-21-2023)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 34.30 INVITATIONS AND REQUESTS.
   (A)   Invitation for bids.
      (1)   All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
      (2)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids will be
opened.
      (3)   The purchasing agency shall also post notice at the Thorntown Town
Hall, Thorntown utility office and Thorntown post office.
   (B)   Request for proposals.
      (1)   All notices of request for proposals shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
      (2)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications.
      (1)   All notices of request for specifications shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lebanon Reporter.
      (2)   The purchasing agency shall schedule the publication of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior ro the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other materials, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agency may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed - -)
§ 34.31 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only receive an electronic
offer if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town's best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed - -)
§ 34.32 SMALL PURCHASES.
   Subject to the approval of the purchasing agency, the purchasing agent may
purchase supplies with an estimated cost of less than $50,000 on the open
market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed - -)
§ 34.33 DESIGNATED PURCHASING AGENTS; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other requirement herein, each purchasing agent
shall comply with all laws of the State of Indiana, as well as ordinances and
rules of the purchasing agency and the Town of Thorntown, Indiana, with respect
to any purchase. A purchasing agent is not permitted to enter into separate
purchases for the purpose of avoiding the requirements and limitations set
forth herein.
   (B)   The persons holding the following positions, some of whom may not be
employees of the town, are hereby appointed as a purchasing agent for the
purchasing agency (i.e., the Town Council of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana):
      (1)   Town Marshal;
      (2)   Park Board President
      (3)   Utility Superintendent;
      (4)   Town Clerk/Treasurer; and
      (5)   Development Director.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the person holding the above-
named position shall have authority to purchase services and supplies,
excluding vehicles and other capital expenditures, for the town in their
respective departments without prior specific approval of the purchasing agency
(i.e., Town Council) if the estimated amount of the purchase is less than $200
and is included in the approved budget for the office, as confirmed by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed - -)
§ 34.34 PURCHASES NOT SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Purchases not specifically authorized above shall be presented to and
shall require the specific approval of the purchasing agency (i.e., Town
Council) before a contract for purchase is entered into and the purchasing
agent shall comply with each rule, procedure, limitation and requirement of the
purchasing agency that is given when authorizing a purchase in response to such
request.
   (B)   The purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) may, at any time, further
modify or limit the authority of the above identified purchasing agent by
regular action of the Town Council, without need of a resolution or ordinance,
and the purchasing agent shall comply with such modification or limitation.
   (C)   After a purchasing agent listed above makes such a purchase as
authorized herein without obtaining prior specific approval of the purchasing
agency (i.e., Town Council), the purchasing agent shall submit a report to the
purchasing agency (i.e., Town Council) for them to review and ratify, if
appropriate, at their next regularly scheduled Council meeting.
(Ord. 2018-9, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Town utility rate-making jurisdiction
   
50.02   Payments to town
   
50.03   Utility Service Board
   
50.04   Garbage storage, burning trash, and the like
   
50.05   Utility ratepayers to finance fire hydrant rentals
   
50.06   Electrical rates
   
50.07   Tracker adjustment for electric utilities
   
50.08   Stormwater service
   
50.09   Fuel surcharges
   
50.10   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.11   Disposal of limbs and other tree material
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal sewage works, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq.
   Municipal utilities, see I.C. 8-1.5-1-1 et seq.
§ 50.01 TOWN UTILITY RATE-MAKING JURISDICTION.
   The town-owned utility is hereby taken out of the jurisdiction of the
Utility Regulatory Commission of the state for rate-making purposes.
(1995 Code, § 18-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1
§ 50.02 PAYMENTS TO TOWN.
   The town-owned utilities, consisting of a water, electric, and sewage
utility, shall make monthly payments to the town in lieu of property taxes in
an amount equal to one-twelfth the amount computed by multiplying one-third the
book value of the property held by the respective utilities, times the
prevailing and allowable tax rate as established for taxable property within
the jurisdiction of the town.
(1995 Code, § 18-2)
§ 50.03 UTILITY SERVICE BOARD.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD. The Thorntown Utility Service Board.
(1995 Code, § 18-26)
   (B)   Members. The members of the Board shall be resident householders of
the “town utility service area” and shall be appointed by the Council. No more
than two-thirds of the members of the Board shall be members of the same
political party.
   (C)   Created; purpose. The Town Utility Service Board, consisting of three
members, is hereby created, which Board shall operate and manage the town
electric utility and the town waterworks utility.
(1995 Code, § 18-27)
   (D)   Members generally. The members of the Board shall be resident
householders of the town and shall be appointed by the Council. No more than
two-thirds of the members of the Board shall be members of the same political
party.
(1995 Code, § 18-28)
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of each member of the Utility Service
Board shall be $400 per year and shall be paid as follows: the first quarter of
each member’s salary shall be paid on March 30, the second quarter shall be
paid on June 30, the third quarter shall be paid on September 30, and the
remaining quarter shall be paid on December 30 of each year, such payments to
be made from the funds of either of the utilities and in such proportions as
shall be determined by the Board in its discretion.
(1995 Code, § 18-29)
   (F)   Appointment, terms of members.
      (1)   All members of the Board shall be appointed to serve for four-year
staggered terms, beginning and ending on January 1. Upon the expiration of the
term of any member of the Board, his or her successor shall be appointed by the
Town Council, such appointment to be made during the month of December prior to
the expiration of such term.
      (2)   Any vacancies in the membership of the Board caused by death,
resignation, or any other cause shall be filled by appointment for the
unexpired term of the vacating member. All members of the Board shall hold
office for the term for which appointed, and until their successors are duly
appointed and qualified.
(1995 Code, § 18-30)
   (G)   Filling vacancies. All vacancies in the Utility Service Board shall be
filled by appointment by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 18-31)
   (H)   Powers, duties. The Utility Service Board shall have all the powers,
authorities, and duties conferred upon such Board by I.C. 8-1.5-3-4.
(1995 Code, § 18-32)
(Ord. 1984-4, passed - -; Ord. 2013-3, passed 8-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for town utility rate-making jurisdiction, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1
   Board controlling utilities, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-3 et seq.
§ 50.04 GARBAGE STORAGE, BURNING TRASH, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Storage. It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate, store, or
keep trash, waste paper, and/or garbage within the town outside of a closed
container.
(1995 Code, § 16-1)
   (B)   Burning trash and the like in a fire zone. It shall be unlawful for
any person to burn any trash, waste paper, and/or garbage, unless in an
approved incinerator, within the business fire zone of the town.
(1995 Code, § 16-2)
   (C)   Hours regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any
trash, waste paper, and/or garbage within the town between the hours of 6:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1995 Code, § 16-3)
Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Business fire zone, see §
130.005
§ 50.05 UTILITY RATEPAYERS TO FINANCE FIRE HYDRANT RENTALS.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 8-1-2-103(d) are hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein such that the charges for production, storage, transmission,
sale, and delivery, or furnishing of water for public fire protection purposes
shall be added to the basic rates of all customers of the Town Utilities and
its successors and assigns as regulated by the State Utility Regulatory
Commission.
   (B)   The effective date for addition of these charges in the basic rate
shall be June 18, 2012 and that after said date, the costs of any fire hydrant
installed at the request of the town shall be paid by or on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 50.06 ELECTRICAL RATES.
   (A)   Generally. For the use of, and service rendered by the electric works,
each user shall be charged in an amount based upon a monthly fee, shown as
follows in division (B) below.
   (B)   Specific rates.
      (1)   Residential rates (per kWh).
 
Customer charge per month $8.66
First 100 kWh             $0.205500
Over 100 kWh              $0.112921
 
      (2)   Commercial rates (per kWh).
 
Customer charge per month $12.99
First 500 kWh             $0.205500
Over 500 kWh              $0.111728
 
      (3)   Power rates (per kWh).
 
Customer charge per month $43.31
First 500 kWh             $0.230407
Next 1,500 kWh            $0.208750
Over 2,000 kWh            $0.115623
Notes:
The minimum charge shall be greater of the facilities charge of $43.31 per
month. Applicable motors include each with an individual rate capacity of one-
half horsepower or over
 
      (4)   Security lighting rate (per light).
 
Customer charge per month $10.18
For each 175-watt mercury vapor light there is a monthly charge of $10.18 per
month ($122.16) per year and the charge shall be billed separately and be
payable at the beginning of each contract month.
 
      (5)   Security lighting rate (per kWh).
 
All kWhs $0.095054
 
      (6)   Fuel surcharge (per KWH).
 
All kWhs $0.00
 
   (C)   Late fee. Ten percent (10%) of the first $3.00 then 2% of the
remaining balance due.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-22-2010; Ord. 2021-15, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 2022-8,
passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-12-2023; Ord. 2024-3, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 50.07 TRACKER ADJUSTMENT FOR ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Tracker adjustment.
      (1)   The electric utility is incurring costs associated with providing
electric service that are not covered by the current rate structure of §
50.06, and it being necessary to recoup said costs, the Town Council finds it
necessary to adopt a rate tracker.
      (2)   All other provisions of §
50.06 and other ordinances relating to electric rate and charges shall remain
in full force and effect.
   (B)   Establishment of rate tracker.
 
Tn = Cn - Cr
Sn
 
Where:
 
T = The tracker in dollars per kilowatt-hour (kWh). This tracker is applied on
a per-kWh basis to all metered sales of electricity
 
C = The projected cost of power (electricity) purchased by the town utility in
the upcoming quarter
 
n = Period of next tracker (quarterly)
 
r = Period of the town’s utility last retail electric rate change
 
S = The kWh expected to be sold to the town utility’s retail customers in the
upcoming quarter
 
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall take effect upon its signing.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-19-2014)
§ 50.08 STORMWATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5 are hereby adopted in their entirety
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein, and the following entities established:
      (1)   Department of Stormwater Management within the Town Utilities;
      (2)   Board of Directors of the Department of Stormwater Management shall
consist of three directors appointed by the Town Council President, pursuant to
I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(c). Directors shall serve terms of four years, however, the
initial term shall be staggered pursuant to I.C. 8-1.55-4(d); and
      (3)   (a)   A Stormwater Management District, extending to the corporate
boundaries of the town, is hereby established for the purpose of providing for
the collection and disposal of stormwater of the town in a manner which
protects the public health and welfare, and for the purpose of levying special
benefit taxes to pay for the cost of stormwater facilities and services.
         (b)   As the corporate boundaries of the town change, whether through
annexation or otherwise, so shall the boundaries of the Stormwater Management
District change.
   (B)   The Board of Directors of the Department of Stormwater Management
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the collection and disposal of
stormwater within the District, and shall possess all the powers and duties set
forth in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4 and 8-1.5-5-6 including, but not limited to, the power
to:
      (1)   Establish and enforce the rules and regulations governing the
Department of Stormwater Management;
      (2)   Hold hearings following public notice;
      (3)   Make findings and determinations;
      (4)   Install, maintain, and operate a stormwater collection and disposal
system; and
      (5)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control.
   (C)   (1)   A stormwater user fee is hereby adopted and established as
follows:
         (a)   The monthly stormwater user fee for all single-family
residential properties located in the Stormwater Management District shall be
$5.01; and
         (b)   The monthly stormwater user fee for all multi-unit residential
properties and nonresidential properties located in the Stormwater Management
District shall be $10.02.
      (2)   The Board of Directors of the Department of Stormwater Management
shall revisit the rate structure used to determined the stormwater user fees
every five years and may adjust it accordingly to meet the needs of the
Department of Stormwater Management.
      (3)   The Department of Stormwater Management shall be responsible for
calculating and assessing all monthly stormwater user fees, for establishing
billing and collection procedures for the same in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5,
and for taking all other lawful actions, including, but not limited to, those
set forth in Ordinance 95-3, as are necessary or convenient in order to
implement the Stormwater Management District's user fee system.
      (4)   (a)   If the monthly stormwater user fee is not paid by its due
date, as stated on the fee invoice provided by the Department of Stormwater
Management, the Board of Directors of the Department of Stormwater Management
shall proceed to collect the unpaid fees and/or place a lien on the affected
property in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-29 and 8-1.5-5-30.
         (b)   Late fee: 10% of the balance due.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 9-18-1995; Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-18-2019; Res. 2019-1,
passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2024-2, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 50.09 FUEL SURCHARGES.
   A fuel surcharge of one-fourth of a cent ($0.0025) per kWh billed per
customer shall be added to all rates and charges to be collected by the town,
from customers of the electric utility system owned and operated by said town
and is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.10 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.11 DISPOSAL OF LIMBS AND OTHER TREE MATERIAL.
   (A)   The town, through the Thorntown Utility Department, will maintain a
location for the disposal of limbs and other tree material by residents of the
Town of Thorntown.
   (B)   It will be unlawful for any person to dump any other items or
materials at that location.
   (C)   If any person found to have violated this section shall be subject to
the following fines:
      (1)   First offense: $50; and
      (2)   Second and subsequent offense: $100.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.04 shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in such amounts as set from time to time by the Town
Council, to which fines may be added the costs of prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 16-4)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Fluoridation authorized
   
51.02   Same; introduction
   
51.03   Fees and charges
   
51.04   Rates
Cross-Connections
   
51.15   Definition
   
51.16   Cross-connections generally prohibited; conditions under which
permitted
   
51.17   Inspections
   
51.18   Discontinuation of water service; authorized
   
51.19   Notice; hearing
   
51.20   Backflow preventers required
   
51.21   Effect of chapter on other regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 FLUORIDATION AUTHORIZED.
   The water utility is hereby authorized and directed to have plans and
specifications prepared for the purpose and installation of equipment to add
sodium fluoride to the water being distributed by the town, and to submit them
to the State Board of Health for approval.
(1995 Code, § 18-56)
§ 51.02 SAME; INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Upon the approval of the plans and specifications for fluoridation by
the State Board of Health, such equipment and supplies shall be purchased and
installed in the manner provided by state law.
   (B)   Thereupon, the fluoride compound shall be added to the public water
supply in sufficient quantities to bring the total amount of fluoride tons
present in the finished water to the optimum concentration recommended by the
State Board of Health, but not exceeding one and one-half parts per million by
weight.
(1995 Code, § 18-57)
§ 51.03 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Tapping fees. Each user, at the time he or she is connected with the
waterworks system, shall pay a flat charge to cover the cost of tapping the
main, furnishing and laying service pipe, corporation and stopcocks, service
and meter box, and installing the meter.
   (B)   Minimum charges. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the size of meter installed, for which the user will be entitled to the
quantity of water set in the metered schedule of rates.
(1995 Code, § 18-58) (Ord. 1993-1, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 51.04 RATES.
   (A)   Water rates, generally.
      (1)   For the use of, and service rendered by the waterworks, each user
shall be charged in an amount based upon a fee schedule, as shown in division
(B) below.
      (2)   All other provisions of the town’s current water rates and charges
not amended by this section shall remain in full force and effect.
      (3)   The provisions herein, when approved and adopted, shall be
effective for the “A” rates beginning with the June 2014 consumption period and
billed for the July 2014 billing period, and for the “B” rates beginning with
the June 2015 consumption period and billed for the July 2015 billing period,
and thereafter.
   (B)   Water rates and charges specifically.
      (1)   Recurring rates.
         (a)   Metered rate.
 
Metered Rate        Current Rates* Adjusted Rates**
First 5,000 gallons $5.42          $5.34
Next 10,000 gallons $4.79          $4.72
Next 15,000 gallons $4.21          $4.15
Next 20,000 gallons $3.60          $3.55
Over 50,000 gallons $3.01          $2.97
      *   Current rates include Indiana Utility Receipts Tax of 1.4%.
      **   Rates reflect repeal of 1.4% Indiana Utility Receipts Tax by Indiana
Legislature in March 2022.
         (b)   Minimum charge per month.
Minimum Charge Per Month Current Rates* Adjusted Rates**
Minimum Charge Per Month Current Rates* Adjusted Rates**
5-8-inch                 $10.84         $10.69
1-inch                   $21.61         $21.31
1-1/4-inch               $39.07         $38.52
1-1/2-inch               $54.14         $53.38
2-inch                   $84.19         $83.01
3-inch                   $150.35        $148.25
4-inch                   $240.52        $237.15
      *   Current rates include Indiana Utility Receipts Tax of 1.4%.
      **   Rates reflect repeal of 1.4% Indiana Utility Receipts Tax by Indiana
Legislature in March 2022.
         (c)   Public fire protection fee (customer charge) per month.
 
Public Fire Protection Fee (Customer Charge) Current Rates* Adjusted Rates**
Per Month
5-8-inch                                     $2.94          $2.90
1-inch                                       $7.36          $7.26
1-1/4-inch                                   $11.18         $11.02
1-1/2-inch                                   $14.72         $14.51
      *   Current rates include Indiana Utility Receipts Tax of 1.4%.
      **   Rates reflect repeal of 1.4% Indiana Utility Receipts Tax by Indiana
Legislature in March 2022.
 
Public Fire Protection Fee (Customer Charge) Current Rates* Adjusted Rates**
Per Month
2-inch                                       $23.55         $23.22
3-inch                                       $44.15         $43.53
4-inch                                       $73.58         $72.55
      *   Current rates include Indiana Utility Receipts Tax of 1.4%.
      **   Rates reflect repeal of 1.4% Indiana Utility Receipts Tax by Indiana
Legislature in March 2022.
      (2)   Recurring rates and charges.
         (a)   Tap fees.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges “A” and “B” Rates
5/8- and 3/4-inch meters    $450
All other meter sizes       Actual cost of tap, but not less than cost of 5/
                            8 inch tap
 
         (b)   Deposit.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges “A” and “B” Rates
Per connection              $50
   Owner                 $50
   Renter
 
         (c)   Reconnection.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges         “A” and “B” Rates
Reconnecting a disconnected service $25
 
         (d)   Late payment penalty.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges “A” and “B” Rates
Late payment penalty        10% of first $3, 2% of balance
 
         (e)   Meter tampering.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges “A” and “B” Rates
First time and second time  Cost to town and estimated usage
Third time                  Above and discontinuation of service
 
         (f)   Bad check charge.
 
Recurring Rates and Charges “A” and “B” Rates
Bad check charge            $25
 
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-6-2022)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(1995 Code, § 18-71) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
§ 51.16 CROSS-CONNECTIONS GENERALLY PROHIBITED; CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH
PERMITTED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection shall be established
whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply
other than the regular public water supply of the town may enter the supply or
distribution system of the town, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Town Utilities and by the State Department of Environment
Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(1995 Code, § 18-72) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized; frequency. It shall be the duty of the Town Utilities to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross-connection with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by the Town Utilities.
   (B)   Access to premises, information; refusal.
      (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Town
Utilities shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of town
for cross-connections.
      (2)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections.
(1995 Code, § 18-73) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
§ 51.18 DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE; AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Town Utilities is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of this
division (A) exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
   (B)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this division (B).
(1995 Code, § 18-74) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
§ 51.19 NOTICE; HEARING.
   If it is deemed by the Town Utilities that a cross-connection or an
emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of such emergency discontinuance.
(1995 Code, § 18-75) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
§ 51.20 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS REQUIRED.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants and laboratories, and all other hazardous users,
shall install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
(1995 Code, § 18-76) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
§ 51.21 EFFECT OF CHAPTER ON OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter does not supersede the state Uniform Plumbing Code or the
town plumbing ordinance, but is supplementary to them.
(1995 Code, § 18-77) (Ord. 1993-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Administration
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   Definitions
   
52.005   Confidential information
   
52.006   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
52.007   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
52.008   Pretreatment charges and fees; rates
   
52.009   Effective date
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.021   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.022   Local limits
   
52.023   Town’s right of revision
   
52.024   Dilution
   
52.025   Use of private disposal system
   
52.026   Unauthorized altering of public sewers
   
52.027   Building sewer permits
   
52.028   Building sewers
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
52.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.041   Additional pretreatment measures
   
52.042   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
52.055   Wastewater analysis
   
52.056   Permit requirement
   
52.057   Existing connections
   
52.058   New connections
   
52.059   Application contents
   
52.060   Application signatories and certifications
   
52.061   Discharge permit decisions
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
   
52.075   Duration
   
52.076   Permit contents
   
52.077   Permit modification
   
52.078   Permit transfers
   
52.079   Permit revocation
   
52.080   Permit reissuance
Reporting Requirements
   
52.095   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.096   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.097   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.098   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.099   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.100   Reports of potential problems
   
52.101   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.102   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.103   Notification of the discharge of hazardous water
   
52.104   Analytical requirements
   
52.105   Sample collection
   
52.106   Date of receipt of reports
   
52.107   Recordkeeping
   
52.108   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.120   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
52.121   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
52.135   Notification of violation
   
52.136   Consent orders
   
52.137   Show cause hearing
   
52.138   Compliance orders
   
52.139   Cease and desist orders
   
52.140   Administrative fines
   
52.141   Emergency suspensions
   
52.142   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
52.155   Injunctive relief
   
52.156   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
52.170   Performance bonds
   
52.171   Liability insurance
   
52.172   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties
   
52.173   Water supply severance
   
52.174   Public nuisances
   
52.175   Informant rewards
   
52.176   Contractor listing
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly-owned treatment works for the town and enables the town to comply with
all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.
      (2)   The objectives of this chapter are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-
owned treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-
owned treatment works that will pass through the publicly-owned treatment
works, inadequately treated into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible
with the publicly-owned treatment works;
         (c)   To protect both publicly-owned treatment works personnel who may
be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
         (d)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
sludge from the publicly-owned treatment works;
         (e)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost
of operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly-owned treatment
works; and
         (f)   To enable the town to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use, and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly-owned
treatment works is subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly-owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to a duly authorized town employee.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
American Society for Testing and Materials      ASTM
Biochemical oxygen demand                       BOD
Best management practice                        BMP
Baseline monitoring report                      BMR
Centigrade                                      C
Code of Federal Regulations                     C.F.R.
Categorical industrial user                     CIU
Chemical oxygen demand                          COD
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency            EPA
Fahrenheit                                      F
gallons per day                                 gpci
Industrial user                                 IU
Milligrams per liter                            mg/l
National pollutant discharge elimination system NPDES
Non-significant categorical industrial user     NSCIU
Operation and maintenance                       O&M
Publicly-owned treatment works                  POTW
Polyvinyl chloride                              PVC
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act          RCRA
Standard dimension ratio                        SDR
Significant industrial user                     SIU
Significant noncompliance                       SNC
Total suspended solids                          TSS
United States Code                              U.S.C.
 
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of EPA Region V. IDEM will
automatically be designated as the APPROVAL AUTHORITY if its pretreatment
program is approved by the EPA and EPA delegates its pretreatment program
authority to IDEM.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The President, Secretary, Treasurer, or a Vice-President of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor, respectively; or
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility, a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or its designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the Superintendent.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
52.020(A) and (B) (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge, or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, pts. 405 through 471.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Commissioner of the IDEM.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a “new source”.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source, regardless of whether the discharger is
within the governmental jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate, and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes, or operations or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act being, 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq.; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection,
Research, and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§
1401 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month, divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month, divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section; provided, that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces,
or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program;
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASSTHROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   PH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked, or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
52.020.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the town. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature
and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Includes the following:
      (1) All industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
it has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   For adversely affecting the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The town may, on its own, initiate or in response to a petition
received from an industrial user or POTW and in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 5-
19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant industrial user
if it does not meet division (2)(c) above.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.020. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or
passthrough, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits,
or permit conditions.
   STATE. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management or State of
Indiana.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter. The term also means a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
SUPERINTENDENT.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Thorntown or the TOWN COUNCIL of Thorntown.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid- and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law.
      (2)   Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (B)   (1)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report
that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.
      (2)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent
data, as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential
information and shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.006 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), or (B)(8) below and shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which s 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as
defined in §§
52.020 through
52.028;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as
defined by §§
52.020 through
52.028. multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
52.020 through
52.028. Daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone, or in
combination with, other discharges, interference, or passthrough, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to bait or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.007 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user.
         An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation, corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the
bypass.
      (2)   Waiver of written report. The Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
      (3)   Affirmative defense. An upset shall constitute an affirmative
defense to an action brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment
standards if the requirements of division (A)(4) below are met.
      (4)   Evidence. A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset.
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times,
or if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (5)   Burden of proof. In an enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (6)   Judicial determination. Users shall have the opportunity for a
judicial determination on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards.
      (7)   Users to control production of all discharges. Users shall control
production of all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss or failure of its
treatment facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of
treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among
other things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced,
lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A users shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibition in §
52.020(A) of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
52.020(B)(1)(c) to (q) of this chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or
have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause through or interference and that
either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass; generally.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   Allowance of bypass. A user may allow any bypass to occur which
does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only
if it also is essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These by
passes are not subject to the provisions of this division and division (D).
      (3)   Notifications.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceed s applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass; prohibited.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (D) above.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.008 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES; RATES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the town’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Permit. Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including
the cost of processing such applications.
   (B)   Monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedure. Fees for
monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including the cost of
collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing monitoring reports
and certification statements submitted by users.
   (C)   Responding and reviewing accidental discharges. Fees for reviewing and
responding to accidental discharge procedures and construction.
   (D)   Sewer rates generally. For use of, and services rendered by, the sewer
works, each user shall be charge in an amount based upon the fee schedule
provided in division (B) below.
   (E)   Calculation of increase amount and pro forma rates and charges.
 
I.   Calculation of percentage increase
 
   Current rate at 4,000 gallons               $17.88
   Increase - per Council                    12.00
   Rate at 4,000 gallons after increase             29.88
 
   Percentage increase - calculated            67.1141%
   Percentage increase - use               67.114%
 
II.   Calculation of expected additional revenues
   2011 receipts from metered sales            $143,56
   Percentage increase in rates               67.114%
 
   Expected annual additional receipts            $96,350
   Expected monthly additional receipts             $8,029
 
III.   Calculation of Metered Rates
   Based on Monthly Water
   Difference
Usage Per Gallons        Present Rates(1) Proposed Rates     Amount   Percent
First 5,000         $4.47      $7.47         $3   67.114%
Next 10,000         $3.98      $6.55         $2.63   67.092%
Next 15,000         $3.37      $5.63         $2.26   67.062%
Next 30,000         $1.09      $1.82         $6.01   66.972%
 
Minimum Charge      $8.95      $14.96         $6.01   61.151%
 
Tap Fee         $750      $750         -   0.00%
 
Non-Recurring Charges
Forfeited discounts (penalties)   10% on the first $3 and 10% on the remainder
 
Customer Deposit      $50      $50         $0.00   0.000%
 
   (F)   Current rates shall be as follows:
   Metered Rates
Monthly Sewer Volume Rate
First 5,000                          $13.62
Next 10,000                          11.94
Next 15,000                          10.27
Next 30,000                          3.32
Minimum Charge
All customers                        27.28
Tap Fee
Per residential connection           $750.00
Per non-residential connection       Actual cost of making the connection but
                                     not less than $750.00
Customer Sewage Deposit
Per customer                         $50.00
Unpaid Bills By Renters              Owners shall be responsible for any unpaid
                                     bills by renters
Returned Check Charge                $25.00
Late Charge Penalty
All bills 30 days or more delinquent 10% of bill
 
   (G)   Late fee. Ten percent (10%) of the balance due.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2021-12,
passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 52.009 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes passthrough
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case
solids greater than three inches;
         (d)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
         (e)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140°F (60°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (f)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or passthrough;
         (g)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         (h)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent;
         (i)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (j)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
         (k)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (l)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
         (m)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (n)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (o)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test;
         (p)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which
that might cause excessive foaming in the POTW; or
         (q)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, pts. 405 through 471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of cither the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits.
   (B)   When wastewater, subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in 40
C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against passthrough and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum concentrations based upon a
flow proportional sampling or time proportional sampling.
15   mg/l ammonia
1.0  mg/l arsenic
300  mg/l BOD5
0.11 mg/l cadmium
2.77 mg/l chromium (total)
3.38 mg/l copper
1.20 mg/l cyanide (total N,T)
0.69 mg/l lead
0.40 mg/l mercury
1.0  mg/l molybdenum
3.98 mg/l nickel
40   mg/l nitrogen (total)
200  mg/l fats, oil, and/or grease (animal or vegetable origin)
100  mg/l fats, oil, and/or grease (mineral or petroleum origin)
2.0  mg/l selenium
0.43 mg/l silver
2.13 mg/l TTO (total toxic organics)
1.0  mg/l total phenols
500  mg/l total suspended solids
2.61 mg/l zinc
 
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
52.020.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.025 USE OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the said town, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the
property line.
   (E)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
division (D) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Health and County Health Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (G)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (F) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel
or sand.
   (H)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (I)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local Health
Officer.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 UNAUTHORIZED ALTERING OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make connections with. or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits;
      (1)   For residential and commercial services; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   (1)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $25 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $50 for any industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Superintendent at the time of the application is filed.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.028 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and
connection of a new building sewer shall be borne by the building owner.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   New building sewers shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. PVC pipe
shall be Type PSM conforming to ASTM D3034 (SDR 35), ASTM D2241 (SDR 21), or a
plastic pipe meeting or exceeding either of the two aforementioned types if
approved by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Building sewers that are within ten feet horizontally or 18 inches
vertically from a water main shall be PVC, ASTM D2241 (SDR 21).
   (F)   All building sewer pipe joints shall be of the “O” ring type and be
tight and water-proof.
   (G)   (1)   All PVC building sewer pipe shall be installed in full
compliance with the Standard Practice for Underground Installation of
Thermoplastic Pipe for Sewers and Other Gravity - Flow Applications, ASTM
D2321, latest edition.
      (2)   The pipe shall be laid on a minimum of four inches of crushed stone
bedding and covered a minimum of six inches with crushed stone (less than or
equal to one and one-half-inch size). The crushed stone shall be tamped in
place around the pipe.
   (H)   All new building sewers shall be air tested in accordance with ASTM
F1417-latest edition, Standard Test Method for Installation Acceptance of
Plastic Gravity Sewer Lines Using Low-Pressure Air; and deflection tested after
the elapse of 30 days after placement of the final backfill. No pipe shall
exceed a deflection of 5%.
   (I)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches. The slope of a four inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth-
inch per foot.
   (J)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (K)   (1)   The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost.
      (2)   The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight
alignment in so far as possible. Changes in pipe direction shall be made only
with properly curved pipes and fittings.
   (L)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either by gravity
drain, or by forced pump any roof runoff, foundation drains, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   (M)   The owner shall, at the owner’s cost and expense, maintain, repair and
replace any new defective building sewer, to and including the tee or wye
branch, ell, tapping saddle, or any other apparatus used to connect the
building sewer to the public sewer, in a tight and water-proof condition so as
to prevent the escape of sewage and the infiltration of storm and surface
runoff waters.
   (N)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (O)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 52.040 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
52.020 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.041 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand, except
that, such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by
the user, at his or her expense.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.042 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.100; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 52.055 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 14 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.056 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
52.057 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
52.135 through
52.142,
52.155,
52.156,
52.170 thorough
52.176. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
30 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
52.059, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
30 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an
individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.058 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
52.059, must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.059 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit must submit a permit application.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require users to submit all or some of the
following information as part of a permit application:
         (a)   Identifying information.
            1.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner; and
            2.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities,
and plant production processes on the premises.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations.
            1.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
            2.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            3.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
            4.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day); and
            5.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
         (d)   Time and duration. The time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   Location of waste monitoring. The location for monitoring all
wastes covered by the permit;
         (f)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
         (g)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process;
            3.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
            4.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.104. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard; and
            5.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in §
52.105.
         (h)   All other information. Any other information as may be deemed
necessary by the Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.060 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
52.108.
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.061 DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 15 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 52.075 DURATION.
   (A)   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the
permit. An individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period
less than five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Each individual wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific
date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.076 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent passthrough or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the town in accordance with §
52.080, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law; and
      (6)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.077 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the town’s POTW, town personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
52.078(A)(2)(a).
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.078 PERMIT TRANSFERS.
   (A)   (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a
new owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance
notice to the Superintendent and the town approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer.
      (2)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.079 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
52.099;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.080 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
52.059, a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.095 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Generally. All information required in §
52.059(A)(2)(a)1., (A)(2)(b),(A)(2)(c)1., and (A)(2)(f);
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
52.059(A)(2)(g)1. through (A)(2)(g)4.
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(B)(2).
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the town.
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
52.104.
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
52.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment, is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.096.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
52.108 and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
52.004.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.096 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.095(B)(4).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.097 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
52.059(A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), and
52.095(B)(2).
   (B)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
52.021, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.108. All sampling will be done in conformance with §
52.105.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.098 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent, submit no less than twice per year (June and December)
reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards, and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Superintendent or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
52.105, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.099 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.059.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §
52.080 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.077 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.100 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge, or slug load that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.101 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.102 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.103 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WATER.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. pt. 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch, or other).
      (2)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes; an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream discharged during that calendar month; and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following 12 months.
      (3)   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this division (A)(3) need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged, however, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under §
52.098. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.095,
52.097, and
52.098.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., identifying additional characteristics of hazardous
waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must
notify the Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division
Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such
substance within 90 days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.104 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report, shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that the 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.105 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the town, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and
grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for
other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in
approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the town, as appropriate. In
addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous
limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
52.095 or
52.097 (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
52.098 (40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required
to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance
by with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.106 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.107 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
52.022(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.108 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   The following certification statement is required to be signed and submitted
by users submitting permit applications, baseline monitoring reports, reports
on compliance with the categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, and
periodic compliance reports. The following certification statement must be
signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
52.004.
 
I certify, under penalty of law, that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
 
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.120 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder.
   (B)   Users shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.121 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the town designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the County Circuit Court of Lebanon, Indiana.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.135 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.136 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The town may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance, or other
similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
52.138 and
52.139 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.137 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the town and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
   (B)   The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user
as defined in §
52.004 and required by §
52.060(A). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for
the Superintendent or the town, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.138 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer.
   (B)   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for the Superintendent or the town taking any other action against
the user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.139 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for the Superintendent or
the town, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.140 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.8% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (B)   (1)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
with the Superintendent or town to reconsider the fine along with full payment
of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine.
      (2)   Where a request has merit, the town may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user.
      (3)   The Superintendent or the town may add the costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (C)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for the Superintendent or the town, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.141 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons.
      (2)   The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
         (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
52.142 are initiated against the user.
         (b)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date
of any show cause or termination hearing under §§
52.137 or
52.142.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.142 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
52.079, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
52.020 through
52.028.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
52.137 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for the
Superintendent or the town, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.155 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent or the town may petition the County Circuit
Court, through the Town’s Attorney, for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.156 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan, however, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 52.170 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless
such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Superintendent or the town to be necessary to
achieve consistent compliance.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.171 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user
first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to
restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.172 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines,
or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.173 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to
the user may be severed.
   (B)   Service will recommence, at the user’s expense, only after the user
has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.174 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the
town for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.175 INFORMANT REWARDS.
   The Superintendent may pay up to $250 for information leading to the
discovery of noncompliance by a user. In the event that the information
provided results in a civil penalty or an administrative fine levied against
the user, the Superintendent may disperse up to 10% of the collected fine or
penalty to the informant. However, a single reward payment may not $250.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.176 CONTRACTOR LISTING.
   Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for
the sale of goods or services to the town. Existing contracts for the sale of
goods or services to the town held by a user found to be in significant
noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at
the discretion of the town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent or the town may recover reasonable attorney’s
fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Pursuant to §
52.140, when the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent or the town may fine such user in an amount not
to exceed $2,500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day
basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (C)   Pursuant to §§
52.170 through
52.176, a penalty of $50 shall be assessed to any user for each day that a
report required by §§
52.170 through
52.176, a permit or order issued hereunder is late, beginning five days after
the date the report is due. Actions taken by the Superintendent to collect late
reporting penalties shall not limit the Superintendent’s authority to initiate
other enforcement actions that may include penalties for late reporting
violations.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 4-19-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Payment for violations
   
70.02   Traffic lanes
   
70.03   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.04   Obedience to traffic-control devices
Bicycles and Skateboards
   
70.15   Removal of bicycles illegally parked on sidewalks; redemption
   
70.16   Operation to comply with traffic laws; further safety regulations
   
70.17   Compliance with subchapter required
   
70.18   Skateboarding and roller skating on sidewalks
   
70.19   Skateboard regulations in designated town-owned, Town Park Board-owned
and operated skateboard facilities
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21 et seq.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 PAYMENT FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Fines and costs collected from any person who is given a ticket for any
traffic offense within the limits of the town shall go directly to the town.
Any fines collected shall go toward buying new street signs and to help
resurface streets in the town.
(1995 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
Statutory reference:
   Court fees, see I.C. 33-19-1-1
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The town is authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street
or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary, except that there
shall be no work on highways under the jurisdiction of the State Department of
Transportation unless specifically requested by that Department.
(1995 Code, § 11-2) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990)
Statutory reference:
   State highways for municipalities, see I.C. 8-23-6-1 et seq.
§ 70.03 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices installed in the town
shall conform to the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for
Streets and Highways as approved by the State Highway Commission.
   (B)   All signs and signals required hereunder for the particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the
town.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this section shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(1995 Code, § 11-3) (Ord. 1989-3, passed 10-9-1989)
§ 70.04 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this section, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 11-5) (Ord. 1989-3, passed 10-9-1989)
BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 70.15 REMOVAL OF BICYCLES ILLEGALLY PARKED ON SIDEWALKS; REDEMPTION.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to remove, or cause
to be removed, any bicycle found parked or laying on the sidewalk on Main
Street as defined in Ch. 74, Schd. IV, to the Police Station where the owner
thereof may reclaim his or her bicycle upon proof of ownership.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002)
§ 70.16 OPERATION TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC LAWS; FURTHER SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   In the interest of safety all persons riding a bicycle on the streets,
alleys, and public highways within the town shall at all times observe the
traffic laws of the town the same as operators of automobiles and shall:
   (A)   Obey all traffic signs and signals;
   (B)   Never carry another person on the crossbar, handlebars, rear carrier,
foot pegs, or any area of the bicycle a proper seat is not provided;
   (C)   Always ride on the right-hand side of the street, close to the curb,
or parked line of cars;
   (D)   Ride single file and keep a safe distance behind the vehicle or
bicycle ahead;
   (E)   Ride in a straight line and not weave or make sharp turns in traffic
and never dart in and out of traffic;
   (F)   Not attempt to pass the moving vehicle ahead at an intersection, but
shall wait until it has passed the intersection;
   (G)   Always ride at a safe speed;
   (H)   When riding at night, have a white light on the front and a red light
or approved reflector on the rear of the bicycle;
   (I)   Keep his or her bicycle in good condition, with a bell or horn, good
brakes, and seat and handlebars properly adjusted;
   (J)   Never hitch to a moving vehicle;
   (K)   Park his or her bicycle in a proper place, standing upright;
   (L)   Keep out of car tracks and ruts;
   (M)   Never stunt or race in traffic;
   (N)   Keep his or her bicycle under control; and
   (O)   Always ride with caution and courtesy.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 9-21-11-1 to 9-21-11-14
§ 70.17 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard in any public place
within the town except where specifically authorized by this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall roller skate in any public place within the town
without complying with the rules and regulations as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 SKATEBOARDING AND ROLLER SKATING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on any street except
when crossing the street.
   (B)   The laws governing pedestrians crossing streets shall apply to any
person crossing a street on roller skates or skateboards.
   (C)   Any person crossing a street on roller skates or any person crossing a
street on a skateboard shall come to a complete stop and give the right-of-way
to all vehicular traffic before crossing said street.
   (D)   Any person crossing a street on roller skates or any person crossing a
street on a skateboard shall be cognizant of his or her own safety, as well as
the due care and safety of pedestrians in the area.
   (E)   Any person crossing a street on roller skates or crossing a street on
a skateboard shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and vehicular traffic
at all crosswalks.
   (F)   No person crossing a street on roller skates or crossing a street on a
skateboard shall travel too fast for the existing conditions.
   (G)   All persons participating in the recreational activity of roller
skating or skateboarding shall otherwise obey all traffic signs and signals
posted for vehicular traffic and pedestrians in the town.
   (H)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall ride on the right-hand side of the street close to the curb
or parked line cars.
   (I)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall keep a safe distance behind any vehicle, bicycle, roller
skater, or skateboarder ahead.
   (J)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall traverse in a straight line and not weave or make sharp
turns in traffic and shall never dart in and out of traffic.
   (K)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall not attempt to pass any moving vehicle ahead at an
intersection, but shall wait until same has passed the intersection.
   (L)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding when riding at night shall have proper reflective clothing on
their persons so as to be visible to motorists and/or pedestrians in the
vicinity.
   (M)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall never hitch or attach themselves in any manner to a moving
vehicle.
   (N)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating or
skateboarding shall always remove their skates and skateboard to a proper place
out of the traveled portion of any roadway, sidewalk, or alleyway and shall at
all times pursue their recreational avocation in control so as not to provide a
danger to themselves or other pedestrians or vehicular traffic and further
always ride with caution and courtesy to others.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 SKATEBOARD REGULATIONS IN DESIGNATED TOWN-OWNED, TOWN PARK BOARD-OWNED
AND OPERATED SKATEBOARD FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Town Park Board Commissioners shall establish all rules and
regulations addressing the use of skateboards and roller skates in designated
town-owned facilities operated by the Town Park Board Commissioners when the
same are established.
   (B)   Any person who wishes to skateboard in any designated town or Town
Park Board skateboard facility specifically designated for the use of
skateboards and/or roller skates shall be required to adhere to all safety
requirements and posted rules and regulations.
   (C)   Such regulations shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
wearing of protective helmets, kneepads, and elbow pads; rules of conduct for
the facility and user fees imposed; proper hours of operation; and penalties.
All such regulations shall be conspicuously posted at each town park operated
skateboard or roller facility should the same be established by the town or its
Town Park Board.
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be asked to
abide by the governing rules and regulations. If the individual refuses to do
so, he or she shall be issued a warning notice from the town, shall be asked to
leave, and shall not return to that specific designated town-owned skateboard
facility for the remainder of that day or shall otherwise remove his or her
activity from a town street provided for herein above. Anyone refusing to leave
or who returns the same day after having been asked to leave, shall be issued a
citation and shall have his or her skateboard and/or skates seized and
subsequently impounded by the Town Police Departments.
   (E)   Any confiscated skateboard and/or roller skates, if belonging to a
person under the age of 18 years, shall be given up to the parent or guardian
of the minor upon request and without charge if a first-time violator, after a
full explanation of the reasons for impounding the skateboard and/or roller
skates and a copy of the rules of conduct for the usage of skateboards in the
town streets in general or for use at a town skateboard facility are given to
such parent or guardian.
   (F)   Any confiscated skateboard and/or roller skates, if belonging to a
person 18 years of age or older, shall be given to that person upon request and
without charge if a first-time violator, after a full explanation of the reason
(s) for impounding the skateboard and a copy of the rules of conduct for town
skateboard facilities and for operation on the town streets are given to that
individual
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Park Board, see §
31.51
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
70.15 through
70.19 may be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Warning notice. Issuance of a warning notice to a first-time
violator stating that he or she is in violation and that failure to comply may
result in impoundment of his or her roller skates or skateboard or bicycle and
a citation being issued for the violation.
      (2)   Citations. For a second violation of any of the provisions of §§
70.15 through
70.19 within the same calendar year, a citation shall be issued to the violator
imposing a $25 fine, as well as the violator’s skateboard or roller skates or
bicycle being impounded for the ordinance violation.
      (3)   Notice contents. The warning notice issued under §§
70.15 through
70.19 shall contain the date, time, name, age, and address of the violator; the
name of the violator’s parent(s) or guardian if the violator is a minor; the
code section violated; the nature of the violation; the location of the
violation; the name of the officer issuing the warning notice; and a telephone
number of the office to contact for information regarding the violation and the
contents of §§
70.15 through
70.19.
      (4)   Citation contents. The citation issued under §§
70.15 through
70.19 shall contain the date, the time, name, age, and address of the
violator;, the name of the violator’s parent (s) or guardian if the violator is
a minor; the code section violated; the nature of the violation; the location
of the violation; the name of the officer issuing the citation; and instruction
as to the disposition of the citation.
      (5)   Police records. The Town Police Department shall maintain records
of all roller skates and skateboards and bicycles impounded by date, time,
name, and address of the violator; the code section violated; and a brief
description of the item impounded so as to facilitate identification process
for return of those items confiscated. All such items impounded shall be tagged
for proper identification purposes to return them to the rightful owner.
      (6)   Impoundment.
         (a)   The impounded skateboard or roller skates, or bicycle if
belonging to a person under the age of 18, shall be given to the parent(s) or
guardian of the minor upon request after a full explanation of the reason for
impounding the skateboard, roller skates, or bicycle is given to such parent(s)
or guardian and after payment is received for all outstanding citations issued.
The town shall give a copy of all rules and regulations governing the use of
roller skates, skateboards, or bicycles on town property or within town
streets, sidewalks, and alleyways, at the time returning the property to the
parent or guardian.
         (b)   The impounded skateboard, roller skates, or bicycle belonging to
the violator who is 18 years of age or older, shall be given to him or her upon
request and receipt of payment for all outstanding citations issued. The town
shall give a copy of all rules and regulations governing the use of roller
skates, skateboards, or bicycles on town property, streets, alleyways, and
sidewalks, at the time of returning the property to the violator.
      (7)   Subsequent violations. Each subsequent day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense for which a citation may be issued.
      (8)   Adherence to state law. Anyone who recklessly, knowingly, or
intentionally obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic while on roller skates,
skateboard, or bicycle commits disorderly conduct and shall be subject to the
provisions of applicable state law.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.01   Stop, yield intersections
   
71.02   Weight limits
   
71.03   Basic speed limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General Provisions, see
Ch. 70
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.01 STOP, YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STOP. The vehicle is not moving; to cease from any motion or action.
      YIELD. To give way to another vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required at the entrance to a
through street and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersection from such through street or which are approaching so
closely on such through street as to constitute an immediate hazard, but such
driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection on such through street shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the through street.
   (C)   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield in obedience to any such
sign as the case may be, before entering such intersection, except when
directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
(1995 Code, § 11-27) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any
vehicle with a gross weight of more than 7,000 pounds on any improved streets
in the town other than those designated by the Council, however, any vehicle
with a gross weight of more than 7,000 pounds with its point of origin or
destination being within the corporate limits of the town may travel upon any
of the improved streets of the town necessary to reach its point of origin or
destination using the shortest, practical route to reach one of such designated
streets.
(1995 Code, § 11-28) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 71.03 BASIC SPEED LIMITS.
   Basic speed limits on streets in the town shall be as follows: no person
shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall be so restricted as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, or vehicle or other conveyance on
or near, or entering a highway in compliance with legal requirements and with
the duty of all persons to use due care.
(1995 Code, § 11-29) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating §
71.02 shall be guilty of violating of an ordinance, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined an amount as set from time to time by the Town Council
for each such violation hereof, to which fine may be added the cost of
prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 11-28)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Designation of no-parking
Handicapped Parking
   
72.15   Established
   
72.16   Designation
   
72.17   Use restricted
   
72.18   Violations; towing away
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General Provisions, see
Ch. 70
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 75
   Schedule of fines and fees, see §
10.25
   Traffic Regulations, see
Ch. 71
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 DESIGNATION OF NO-PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or let stand, or cause to be
parked, any automobile, truck, tractor, trailer, wagon, implement, equipment,
or vehicle of any kind within an area designated by the town as a no-parking
area, or to violate the restrictions of a limited parking area.
(1995 Code, § 11-52) (Ord. 1986-2, passed 5-14-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 72.15 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be established parking places which shall be designated
handicapped parking with such parking space locations to be determined by the
Council.
(1995 Code, § 11-66) (Ord. 1984-7, passed 7-26-1984) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 DESIGNATION.
   Spaces designated under this subchapter shall be posted with proper
identification indicating that such parking space is for “handicapped parking
only”.
(1995 Code, § 11-67) (Ord. 1984-7, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 72.17 USE RESTRICTED.
   Only those persons with the appropriate license plate designation or other
appropriate state required identification specifically issued for temporary
handicap parking shall be allowed to park in the spaces provided under this
subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 11-68) (Ord. 1984-7, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 72.18 VIOLATIONS; TOWING AWAY.
   (A)   Any person found to be parking in the designated parking places for a
period of more than two hours shall be subject to having such vehicle towed
away at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   The two-hour parking limitation shall only apply to persons without
handicapped parking designation.
(1995 Code, § 11-69) (Ord. 1984-7, passed 7-26-1984) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines and fees, see §
10.25
Statutory reference:
   Violations, see I.C. 5-16-9-5
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by §
72.01 or by ordinance, any person found to be violating the provisions of §
72.01 shall be guilty of violating an ordinance and, upon conviction, shall be
fined an amount as set from time to time by the Town Council, to which may be
added the cost of prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 11-51)
   (C)   Any person found to be violating the provisions of §
72.18 shall be guilty of violating an ordinance and, upon conviction, shall be
fined an amount as set from time to time by the Town Council, to which may be
added the costs of prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 11-69)
(Ord. 1984-7, passed 7-26-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines and fees, see §
10.25
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Mopeds
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Application of subchapter
   
73.03   Age of operator; permit
   
73.04   Permit application fee
   
73.05   Impoundment of moped
   
73.06   Fines
Snowmobiles
   
73.20   Definition
   
73.21   Permissible operation
   
73.22   Age of operator
   
73.23   Driver’s license required
   
73.24   Hunting and the like prohibited
   
73.25   Circumstances prohibiting operation of a snowmobile
Golf Carts
   
73.40   Purpose
   
73.41   Definitions
   
73.42   Manner of operation-general requirements
   
73.43   Observance of traffic regulations mandatory
   
73.44   Permit required
   
73.45   Proof of liability insurance
   
73.46   Standard equipment regulations
   
73.47   Times of operation
   
73.48   Operation regulations
   
73.49   Sidewalks and adjacent areas
   
73.50   Unlawful careless operation
   
73.51   Towing
   
73.52   Trespassing on private property
   
73.53   Exceptions
   
73.54   Town liability
   
73.55   Effective date
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local ordinances, see I.C. 14-16-1-22
   Snowmobiles, see I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.
MOPEDS
§ 73.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide adequate identification in
order that a police officer may determine whether a person operating a moped is
legally entitled to under the laws of the state regarding the age requirement
for operation of such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 11-91) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 73.02 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply to all residents in the incorporated portion of
the town.
(1995 Code, § 11-92) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 73.03 AGE OF OPERATOR; PERMIT.
   Any person authorized under the laws of the state and entitled to operate a
moped or other motorized vehicle who, although authorized and entitled to
operate such vehicle, does not meet the age requirements necessary for
obtaining an operator’s permit under the laws of the state shall obtain from
the Police Department an identification card showing the age of the person
authorized to operate such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 11-93) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 73.04 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   The person wishing to obtain an identification card under this subchapter
must provide adequate proof of age and shall pay the amount set from time to
time by the Council for obtaining such identification card.
(1995 Code, § 11-94) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 73.05 IMPOUNDMENT OF MOPED.
   Upon failure to carry the identification card issued under this subchapter,
when the person is detained by a police officer requesting identification, the
police officer may confiscate the moped until proof of age is shown and the
identification card is obtained or until a court date is set for such
violation, whichever occurs first.
(1995 Code, § 11-95) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
§ 73.06 FINES.
   There shall be a fine of such amount as set from time to time by the Town
Council for failure to carry the identification card as required by this
subchapter, plus any storage costs and costs of prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 11-96) (Ord. 1984-8, passed 7-26-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motor driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type which utilizes sled type runners or skis, or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated.
(1995 Code, § 11-116)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1 et seq.
§ 73.21 PERMISSIBLE OPERATION.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile required to be registered under
state law upon a public highway or street or right-of-way thereof or on a
public or private parking lot not specifically designated for the use of
snowmobiles except under the following conditions and circumstances.
   (A)   A snowmobile may be operated on the public right-of-way adjacent to
the traveled portion of the public highway, except a limited access highway, if
there is sufficient width to operate at a reasonable distance off and away from
the traveled portion and in a manner so as not to endanger life or property.
   (B)   (1)   The operator of a snowmobile may cross a public highway, other
than a limited access highway, at right angles for the purpose of getting from
one area to another when the operation can be done in safety.
      (2)   The operator shall bring his or her snowmobile to a complete stop
before proceeding across any public highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
all traffic.
   (C)   A duly constituted law enforcement officer of a city or town or county
or the state may authorize use of a snowmobile on the public highways, streets,
and right-of-way within his or her jurisdiction during emergencies when
conventional motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation due to snow or
other extreme highway conditions.
   (D)   (1)   A snowmobile may be operated on a street or highway for a
special event of limited duration conducted according to a prearranged schedule
only under permit from the governmental unit having jurisdiction.
      (2)   The event may be conducted on the frozen surface of public waters
only under permit from the State Department of Natural Resources.
(1995 Code, § 11-118) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-20
§ 73.22 AGE OF OPERATOR.
   A person under the age of 14 shall not operate a snowmobile without
immediate supervision of a person 18 years of age or older, except on land
owned or under the control of such person or his or her parent or legal
guardian.
(1995 Code, § 11-119) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on a public highway without a valid
motor vehicle driver’s license.
(1995 Code, § 11-120) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 HUNTING AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   A snowmobile shall not be used to hunt, pursue, worry, or kill a wild bird
or any domestic or wild animal.
(1995 Code, § 11-121) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 CIRCUMSTANCES PROHIBITING OPERATION OF A SNOWMOBILE.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   While under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or unlawfully
under the influence of a narcotic or other habit forming or dangerous
depressant or stimulant drug;
   (C)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
   (D)   In any forest nursery, planting area, or public lands posted or
reasonably identified as an area of forest or plant reproduction and when
growing stock may be damaged;
   (E)   On the frozen surface of public waters within 100 feet of a person not
in or upon a snowmobile or within 100 feet of a fishing shanty or shelter
except at a speed of five mph or less;
   (F)   Unless it is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke;
   (G)   Within 100 feet of a dwelling between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.,
except on his or her own property or property under his or her control or as an
invited guest;
   (H)   On any property without the consent of the landowner or tenant
thereof;
   (I)   While transporting thereon a bow unless unstrung, or a firearm unless
unloaded and securely encased or equipped with and made inoperative by a
manufactured keylocked trigger housing mechanism;
   (J)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
   (K)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski, or skating area, except for the
purpose of servicing the area;
   (L)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except railroad
personnel in performance of their duties; or
   (M)   On public property unless authorized to do so.
(1995 Code, § 11-122) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-23
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish a golf cart subchapter
within the town to ensure the safety and the welfare of persons operating cart
(s) within the town.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
§ 73.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by the state or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for a motor vehicle operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 25 mph.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
§ 73.42 MANNER OF OPERATION-GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall operate a golf cart or four-wheel utility vehicle with a
bench seat in the town except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.43 OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS MANDATORY.
   (A)   All applicable sate laws regarding motor vehicles shall be adhered to,
including the possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs.
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which governs the operations of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.44 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No golf cart shall be operated in the town unless a permit from
the Town Marshal or his or her appointee has been issued to the owner of said
golf cart. The permit received from the town must be with the golf cart
whenever it is operated in the town. The permit is good for one calendar year
within which it is issued and shall be renewed annually.
      (2)   The fee for said permit will be $25 for initial inspection and
permit and then the fee will be $15 for each calendar year thereafter that the
golf cart is registered. Prior to any initial or renewal permit being issued,
the golf cart shall be inspected by the Town Marshal or his or her appointee to
make sure said golf cart complies with the requirements set forth by the town
and the state. There shall be no permit issued if, in the previous year, the
applicant was cited and convicted of any violations set forth by the town or
the state.
   (B)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Town Marshal will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
pervious application or a receipt of a permit/sticker, the Town Marshal may
direct the applicant to re-apply and also resubmit any and all fees necessary
before a replacement permit/sticker may be issued.
   (C)   Any person who operates a cart in the town and fails to receive and
property display a town permit/sticker will be subject to all applicable state
laws in addition to being in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Golf cart owners must complete the attached registration form, wavier
of liability form and provide a copy of the proof of liability insurance prior
to the cart being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance will be
maintained by the Marshal’s Department.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.45 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   As part of the permit process, the owner of the golf cart must provide
proof of liability insurance before a permit will be issued. The proof of
insurance must be with the golf cart whenever said golf cart is in operation.
   (B)   Proof of insurance liability must be provided annually in order to
renew the golf cart permit.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
§ 73.46 STANDARD EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS.
   All golf carts shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   Brakes that are in good working condition;
   (B)   DOT-approved slow-moving vehicle sign on the back of the golf cart;
   (C)   The cart shall also have a bicycle safety flag on a staff holder to
put such flag at least five feet above the surface of the street;
   (D)   Golf cart shall be equipped with a rear view mirror;
   (E)   Golf carts shall be equipped with a manufacturer’s serial number
plate;
   (F)   Golf cart shall have front and rear reflectors;
   (G)   Golf carts shall have rear working brake lights which are visible from
a distance of 500 feet; and
   (H)   Any other equipment that may be defined by the state and/or the town.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.47 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated during the following times.
   (A)   Carts may be driven on roads only from sunrise to sunset unless the
cart is equipped with two headlights (one on each side of the front of the
cart) and two operating taillights with brake lights (one on each side of the
rear of the cart) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   Golf carts are prohibited on streets during inclement weather when
visibility is reduced or impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions
or at any other time there is insufficient light to clearly see a person or
vehicle on a roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.48 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to the operation of a golf cart within the
town.
   (A)   (1)   Golf carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns and will
operate on the right side of the roadway. Operators of golf carts will adhere
to all rules of the road applicable to motorized vehicles as set forth by the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   (a)   A golf cart may be operated by persons who are:
            1.   At least 16 years of age and possess a valid driver’s license;
or
            2.   If the operator is over the age of 16 years old and qualifies
for a handicapped parking space he or she may operate a golf cart on public
streets upon the submission of a certificate signed by a licensed physician
that the driver is able and capable to operate a motorized golf cart on the
roadways designated. The operator must have the certificate and handicap
parking tag in his or her possession while operating a motorized golf cart.
         (b)   UNDERAGE OPERATORS are defined as persons under the age of 16
years old may not legally drive a golf cart on any town streets, roadways, or
alleys.
   (B)   All riders in the golf cart must remain seated at all times.
   (C)   (1)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the
number of adult persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided
on the golf cart.
      (2)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and
no part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in motion.
   (D)   Children in golf carts must be accompanied by an adult driver and must
follow all requirements of this division (D), except the capacity limits as
long as all children are seated and no part of the body of the child extends
beyond the sides of the cart.
   (E)   (1)   Children in golf carts must be seated and not held.
      (2)   Children three years and under must be in an approved car seat
located on the front bench.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.49 SIDEWALKS AND ADJACENT AREAS.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated upon the public sidewalk nor shall they
be operated upon that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line referred to as the “parking”, except for the
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this subchapter.
   (B)   Two golf carts may use one parking space provided they both park
within the parking space lines.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.50 UNLAWFUL CARELESS OPERATION.
   No person(s) shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner so as to endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury
or damage thereto.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.51 TOWING.
   No item shall be towed by a golf cart. The only exception to this will be
for town parades, festivals, and special events.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.52 TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on private property without the permission
and written consent of the property owner.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All town employees are exempt from the above rules and regulations
when using a golf cart for town business.
   (B)   Exceptions will be made to the rules and regulations at the discretion
of the Town Marshal during town parades, festivals, and/or special events.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.54 TOWN LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town, Town Council, Town Clerk/Treasurer, Police Department, and
all town employees will assume no liability after issuing of said golf cart
permit.
   (B)   (1)   The town cannot be held responsible for any operator actions
while operating the golf cart on town streets, roadways, and/or alleys.
      (2)   The town cannot be held responsible for any deaths, injuries, or
any other damage that may occur from operator error or malfunction of the golf
cart on any street, roadway, or alley in the town.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
§ 73.55 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days after publication
of this subchapter or summary thereof in the official newspaper of the town as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation §§
73.20 through
73.25 shall be a Class C infraction.
   (C)   (1)   Any act constituting a violation of §§
73.40 through
73.55 or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the
offender, upon conviction, to a fine not to exceed $250. Each day that any of
the provisions of §§
73.40 through
73.55 is violated shall constitute a separate offense and the subject will be
charged an additional $25 per day, plus court costs. All fees will be made
payable to the town and paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Any underage operator found to be using or operating a golf cart in
violation of §§
73.40 through
73.55 will be remanded to the County Juvenile Court.
(1995 Code, § 11-117) (Ord. 1988-1, passed 2-8-1988; Ord. 2014-6, passed - -)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Commercial vehicle prohibitions
      
III.   Two-way traffic
      
IV.   Skateboarding and roller skating on sidewalks
      
V.   School zones; speed
      
VI.   U-turns
      
VII.   Streets upon which golf carts may be operated
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with §
71.03, the limits specified in this schedule or established as authorized by
this schedule shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a street at a speed in excess of maximum limits.
 
Area/Street               Speed Limit
Any urban district        30 mph
East and West Mill Street 20 mph
 
(1995 Code, § 11-29) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PROHIBITIONS.
   Use of North Pearl Street by commercial vehicles (semi-tractor/trailer
combinations, dump trucks, oversized vehicles) shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-16-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. TWO-WAY TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The purpose of this schedule is to permit two-way traffic on a section
of North Market Street to accommodate school bus traffic.
   (B)   From the intersection of North Market Street and Bethel Road
proceeding north to Fairfield Street, bordering the east side of the former
railroad shall become open for two-way traffic.
   (C)   From the intersection of North Market Street and Fairfield Street,
traffic will continue to be restricted to run one way north.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-17-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE IV. SKATEBOARDING AND ROLLER SKATING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on any town sidewalk
in the following areas of the town:
      (1)   Main Street, from Market Street to Pearl Street; or
      (2)   The Downtown Business District.
   (B)   Persons may roller skate or ride a skateboard on sidewalks in the
following areas of the town: any residential area other than those stated in
division (A) above.
   (C)   Persons who roller skate or ride a skateboard on sidewalks where
permitted must, at all times, exercise due care for the safety of other persons
using the sidewalks.
   (D)   Persons who roller skate or ride a skateboard on a sidewalk where
permitted must, at all times, yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and give
pedestrians audible warnings before overtaking and passing them.
(Ord. 2002-3, passed 8-19-2002) Penalty, see §
73.99
SCHEDULE V. SCHOOL ZONES; SPEED.
   (A)   East and West Mill Street and that part of West Street between Mill
Street and the corporate line of the town are designated as school zones.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in such school
zones at a speed greater than 15 mph when children are present.
(1995 Code, § 11-26) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VI. “U” TURNS.
   (A)   “U” turns on Main Street (State Road 47) between West Street (State
Road 75) and Front Street in the town will be prohibited.
   (B)   Violation of this schedule shall be classified as a Class C
infraction.
   (C)   A judgment of an amount set from time to time by Town Council may be
entered for a violation constituting a Class C infraction.
(1995 Code, § 11-30) (Ord. 1990-4, passed 10-8-1990)
SCHEDULE VII. STREETS UPON WHICH GOLF CARTS MAY BE OPERATED.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated on all town streets.
   (B)   (1)   Golf carts are prohibited on the following streets except to
cross said streets:
         (a)   State Road 41 (Main Street); and
         (b)   State Road 75 (West Street).
      (2)   Exception to this will be as follows: during town parades;
festivals; and special events.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking on specified portion of State Road 47
      
II.   “U” parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING ON SPECIFIED PORTION OF STATE ROAD 47.
   Parking shall be restricted on State Road 47/Main Street within the
incorporated limits of the town as follows: no parking anytime along the north
edge of State Road 47/Main Street from the northeast corner of the intersection
of State Road 47/Main Street at West Street east 330 feet to a point 330 feet
east of the northeast corner of State Road 47/Main Street at West Street, a
total distance of approximately 330 feet.
(1995 Code, § 11-53) (Ord. 1990-2, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. “U” PARKING.
   (A)   “U” parking on Main Street (State Road 47) between West Street (State
Road 75) and Front Street in the town will be prohibited.
   (B)   Violation of this schedule shall be classified as a Class C
infraction.
   (C)   A judgment of an amount set from time to time by Town Council may be
entered for a violation constituting a Class C infraction.
(1995 Code, § 11-30) (Ord. 1990-4, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND NUISANCES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Responsibilities and prohibitions
   
90.03   Purposes of chapter
   
90.04   Liability of town
   
90.05   Fines; fees
   
90.06   Offensive or noxious animal conditions
   
90.07   Defecation of animals on public and private property
   
90.08   Number of certain animals restricted
   
90.09   Livestock
 
   90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Placed or left upon public property or upon the private property
of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian, or tenant of
the property or is unattended or uncared for.
   ANIMAL. A member of the animal kingdom, except humans, dead or alive,
domestic or not (See I.C. 15-17-2-3).
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center, an animal shelter, a humane
society, or another animal impounding facility that has as its purpose the
humane care and treatment of animals (See I.C. 6-9-39-1).
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person who is authorized to implement and
enforce county animal ordinances and state statutes and as defined in state
statutes and is a sworn law enforcement officer, as defined under Indiana law.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING CONTEST. Any event or activity facilitated by a person or
persons in which animals engage in violent, aggressive, or otherwise harmful
conduct with another animal in a form that is not generally associated with the
species under normal circumstances.
   AT LARGE. Leaving or straying away from the land owned, rented, or leased by
the owner or custodian of the animal or not being kept in direct control of an
owner or possessor of the animal. AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   BEAT. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical force
or contact in a manner which has as its main objective inducing pain,
inflicting harm, or causing discomfort in a manner that could not reasonably be
described as an appropriate means of discipline.
   BITE. A wound inflicted by an animal tooth causing a tear, puncture,
abrasion, or other marking on the skin in which blood is visible or the skin is
damaged.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family.
   CATTERY. Any place in which three cats or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   CRUELTY. Any intentional or knowing act or omission whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused, permitted, or allowed to
continue where there is reasonable remedy or relief.
   CUSTODIAN. A person who is in temporary direct control of an animal as
authorized by the owner of the animal, or is a law enforcement officer acting
within his/her scope of duties to impound or possess an animal. This may
include, but is not limited to, a veterinarian, an animal grooming facility, a
law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Under the immediate physical restraint of the owner or
custodian of the animal or within the confines of land owned, rented, or leased
by the owner or custodian of the animal.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC. Generally and commonly known to live in or about the habitation of
humans.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal kept as a pet or used for service, protection,
comfort, companionship, hobby or similar purpose.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable, or unable to be approached or handled.
   HARBOR. Performing acts of providing care, shelter, protection, restraint,
refuge, food or nourishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HUMANE TRAP. A device or procedure to contain or dispose of an unwanted
animal, as permitted by law, in a way that provides minimal discomfort or
unnecessary pain to the animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an Animal Control Officer or other person whom is empowered to act by law
and transporting it to an animal care facility or Humane Society.
   KENNEL. Any place in which three dogs or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An appointed officer or employee hired by and on
the patrol of the state, or any of the state's political subdivisions, as
defined under Indiana law, who is granted lawful authority to enforce all or
some of the penal laws of the State of Indiana, and who possesses, with respect
to those laws, the power to effect arrests for offenses committed in the
officer's or employee's presence.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, bison, horses, mules, poultry, or
other animals, that are commonly associated with activities associated with
farming or food production. This chapter does not apply to livestock as defined
in I.C. 15-15-2-47 (See I.C. 15-17-2-47).
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with a Humane
Society or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap, neuter
and return methodology.
   MUTILATE. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical
force or contact in a manner which has as its main objective creating changes
to the physical appearance of the animal in a manner that could not reasonably
be described as an appropriate and common modification for the animal species
involved. Spaying or neutering or any other procedure that changes an animal
does not constitute mutilation if the procedure is done in a certified facility
by a person certified to perform the procedure or is a common or accepted
practice in the industry specific to the animal.
   NEGLECT. An intentional or knowing act or omission whereby an animal is
deprived of adequate and reasonable food, water, shelter, exercise, air, or any
other resource commonly associated with the health and well-being of the
particular animal species involved.
   OFFICE. The Boone County Sheriff's Office.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, or has lawful
possession of an animal; however, this shall not include a person hired or
acting as custodian of the animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, association,
partnership, or corporation.
   QUARANTINE. A place or period of isolation as to prevent cross
contamination, infection, or other hazardous events as determined by a law
enforcement officer, Animal Control Officer, Health Department, the Humane
Society, or any other agent permitted by law.
   SECURE RESTRAINT. A structure or device that maintains physical control of
the animal; this can include, but is not limited to, a fence of adequate design
and strength, a tethering device which is securely attached to the animal at
one end and a fixed object at the other end, or a cage. An "invisible fence," a
fence of inadequate design and strength, or other structures or devices that
cannot maintain physical control of the animal under normal circumstances are
not considered a SECURE RESTRAINT.
   SPAY/NEUTER. An operation done to a female or male animal to prevent the
conception of offspring.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner, or has escaped restraint and is running at large.
   VICIOUS. Known to bite, attack, or injure human beings, domestic animals,
companion animals, or livestock without provocation. No animal may be declared
vicious if a threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a human being who, at
the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting, or otherwise provoking the animal, or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, assaulted, or
otherwise provoked the animal involved, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 90.02 RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The Boone County Board of Commissioners finds that the
terms and conditions of this chapter are in the best interests of all citizens
and animals of Boone County. Therefore, this chapter shall be in full force and
effect in both the incorporated and unincorporated part of the county unless or
until a municipality within in the county adopts an ordinance prohibiting
enforcement of this chapter within the boundaries of the municipality. For
purposes of this chapter, if a municipality (city or town) has reorganized with
a township, pursuant to I.C. 36-1.5.1.1 et seq., the term "incorporated" means
areas within the former city or town limits and any platted subdivision.
   (B)   Basic responsibilities and duties of animal owners.
      (1)   Every owner of every domestic animal kept in the county, whether in
the care of the owner or a custodian, shall see that such animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement. The
owner or custodian of the animal shall regularly and as often as needed
maintain all animal areas to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems;
         (b)   Shall be provided with proper amounts of food that is
nutritionally appropriate for the species to maintain good health;
         (c)   Shall have fresh drinking water;
         (d)   Shall have ventilation and appropriate shelter from the
elements;
         (e)   Is able to exercise and move about freely, as needed by the
species;
         (f)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke or pronged collar nor by
any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal's neck in lieu of an
appropriate collar, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in length or of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
         (g)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
         (h)   Is provided with reasonable necessary medical care or attention
and maintains current on inoculations outlined by this chapter or by state law;
and
         (i)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations regarding animal care and control.
      (2)   Any person who witnesses a violation of this section shall notify
the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement within 24 hours.
   (C)   Cruelty, abuse and neglect.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit, or otherwise
participate in, acts of animal cruelty. Acts of cruelty shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   An act of maliciously killing, abusing, maiming, or disfiguring
any animal or willfully or maliciously administering poison to any animal or
exposing any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous substance
shall be taken and consumed by such animal (does not include the killing of
animals for the protection of persons or property);
         (b)   An act of overloading, torturing, tormenting, depriving an
animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter, beating, mutilating, killing, or
carrying an animal in or upon a vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         (c)   An act of failing to supply an animal with wholesome food and
water, keeping an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and
ventilation, or abandoning any animal to die;
         (d)   An act of owning, possessing, keeping, or training an animal
with the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an animal fighting
contest;
         (e)   Building, maintaining, making or keeping a pit on premises owned
or occupied by the person for the purpose of an exhibition of an animal
fighting contest;
         (f)   Encouraging, instigating, promoting, or assisting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest; or
         (g)   Charging admission, being an assistant, or promoting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest.
      (2)   Any Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal pursuant to or during an investigation under this
chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons or humane traps for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles, or
other similar rodents, raccoons, possums or other pests, as long as the person
using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure that neither domestic animals
nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
      (5)   If the number of domestic animals being kept or harbored by an
owner or custodian jeopardizes the health or welfare of the animals, some or
all of the animals may be impounded, and the Animal Control Officer may pursue
any remedies provided under this chapter.
   (D)   Restraint of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of domestic animal
to allow such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tags or not,
within any incorporated area of the county. Any and all such domestic animals
found at large may be immediately impounded by the Animal Control Officer or
any law enforcement officer and the officers may pursue the animal onto private
property to effect capture of the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any domestic
animal that typically resides within any incorporated area of the county to
ensure that the animal is kept under secure restraint and that reasonable care
and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner or custodian and ensure that the animal cannot easily dig,
climb, jump, or otherwise escape the secure restraint.
      (3)   Chaining of a domestic dog is discouraged, but if it is done, the
following is required:
         (a)   All basic responsibilities and duties described in this chapter
are met at all times;
         (b)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length, regardless of the
size of the dog;
         (c)   The chain must be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog's neck or body;
         (d)   The chain must be able to move freely in all directions; and
         (e)   These restrictions do not apply to owners and their animals that
are participating in sanctioned dog shows or similar events.
      (4)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine
such animal within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions:
         (a)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog's escape with
all points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
         (b)   A beware of dog, or similar wordage, sign shall be conspicuously
displayed on each exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure,
with a minimum of two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the
enclosure. Signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and 14 inches wide.
   (E)   Restraint of female domestic animals in estrus. The owner or custodian
of any female domestic animal in estrus (commonly referred to as heat) shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to prevent
the animal from becoming a nuisance and to prevent conception except during
planned breeding.
   (F)   Permanent identification of a domestic animal required (effective June
1, 2019).
      (1)   A person who owns a domestic animal which is six months or older
which permanently resides in the county with an owner whose legal address falls
within the county limits shall ensure that at all times the animal bears a
permanent means of identification such that the owner can be ascertained
accurately, quickly, and easily.
      (2)   The means of identification required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by state law of other provisions of
this chapter, and shall be either by means of:
         (a)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number and can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
         (b)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times
by the animal and the tag bears the owner's current name, address and telephone
number.
      (3)   The identifying chip or tag may only be removed by the animal's
owner, custodian, or veterinarian acting on behalf of the owner, and can only
be temporarily removed for reasonably short periods of times for the ability to
maintain the animal's health and hygiene.
      (4)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants a
microchip shall make available upon request to the Animal Control Officer the
names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner(s) of the animal and the
corresponding microchip identification number. Such records shall be available
to the Animal Control Officer without court order.
   (G)   Vaccinations and proof of vaccination.
      (1)   The owners of all domestic animals within Boone County must comply
with vaccination requirements as set forth in state law, local ordinance and
the rules and regulations for the State Board of Health and the Boone County
Health Department.
      (2)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets three months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, and ferret
shall be maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows:
         (a)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
         (b)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the
prior vaccination.
         (c)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 12 months of the first vaccination and shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
      (3)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the
vaccinations required by this section.
      (4)   All dogs shall have a rabies vaccination tag securely affixed to
their collar or harness at all times and owners of dogs, cats, and ferrets must
be able to provide documentation of rabies vaccination within 24 hours of being
asked by the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement agency.
      (5)   Vaccinations records must be supplied by the owner to the Animal
Control Officer upon request if the animal has bitten, or is suspected of
biting, a person or other domestic animal.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly abandon a domestic animal or livestock as described by this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon an animal upon private
property which the person owns, leases, rents, or otherwise has a contractual
interest in unless the animal is checked on routinely and all basic
responsibilities and duties of animal owners are met.
      (3)   A defense to this division may include an unforeseen medical
emergency of the owner or custodian of the animal.
      (4)   Colonies and feral cats are excluded from this division.
   (I)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit,
accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious animal on the
streets or public places of the county or allow the animal to run on the
premises of another at any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements
of this chapter, the animal is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from
biting any person or other animal.
   (J)   Animal bites and quarantine.
      (1)   In the event of human being bit by a domestic animal, the animal
shall be quarantined in conformity with state law and the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health and the Health Department.
      (2)   Every incident involving a human being bit by an animal shall be
reported within 24 hours to a local healthcare establishment, a law enforcement
agency, or the Animal Control Officer. It is the duty of the person bitten or
the person's parent or guardian to make the report in conformance with Title
410 IAC 1-2.3-52 as amended.
      (3)   If the animal involved is located and able to be detained, the
animal shall be quarantined as determined by the health department and state
law.
      (4)   Law enforcement animals maintaining current certification are
exempt from this division.
   (K)   Public nuisance animals.
      (1)   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, a domestic animal that:
         (a)   Is found at large (stray);
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
         (c)   Is vicious;
         (d)   Attacks without provocation;
         (e)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances
causing unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; or
         (f)   Is not being kept in conformity with county ordinances and
regulations pertaining to land, animals, and ownership.
      (2)   A public nuisance animal may be impounded by the Animal Control
Officer, without a court order, and the owner or custodian of the animal cited
for a violation of this chapter. The animal may be returned to the owner upon
proof of ownership, proof of payment of damages (if any), and proof of
reasonable attempts to mitigate the cause of nuisance determination.
   (L)   Animal sacrifice.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in, participate in,
assist in, or perform animal sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess, or
harbor any animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly sell, offer for
sale, give away, or transfer any animal to any person when he knows or believes
that person intends to use such animal for animal sacrifice.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   Vehicles and animals.
      (1)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal's owner, if
known, or the local law enforcement agency or Animal Control Officer. The
person must provide the location of the incident, a description of the animal,
and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to provide his
name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only purpose of this
requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
      (2)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a non-domestic animal shall immediately notify the local law
enforcement agency or Animal Control Officer if any of the following exists:
         (a)   The collision leaves debris or carnage which constitutes a road
hazard;
         (b)   The collision causes damage to a secondary vehicle or injury to
a pedestrian; or
         (c)   The collision causes damage to private property if the driver of
the involved vehicle does not have a contractual interest with the property.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle, whether on private
or public property, in which the conditions of the vehicle would constitute a
health hazard to the animal.
      (4)   No animal shall be transported in the trunk of a vehicle, a small
storage compartment of vehicle (i.e. glove box), or in any other fashion which
restricts the animal from reasonable mobility and access to air during
transport.
      (5)   An animal in a vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision should
be:
         (a)   Released to the owner or custodian of the animal if possible;
         (b)   Be held by the law enforcement agency and released to a person
named by the owner or the custodian of the animal if that person can be to the
scene in a reasonable time period; or
         (c)   Transported to an aimal care facility for a temporary holding
period.
   (N)   Stray animals.
      (1)   A person who finds a stray animal should notify the local law
enforcement agency or the Animal Control Officer within 24 hours.
      (2)   A person possessing the lost or stray animal must comply with all
rules and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment
of animals while the animal is in custody awaiting the return to the owner or
intervention of an animal care facility, the local law enforcement agency, or
the Animal Control Officer.
   (O)   Injured animals.
      (1)   A person who discovers an injured domestic animal or accidentally
causes injury to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal's owner,
if known, the local law enforcement agency, or the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a description
of the animal, and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to
provide his name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only
purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
   (P)   Deceased animals.
      (1)   A person finding a dead domestic animal, large undomesticated
animal that constitutes a road or biohazard, or the surviving offspring of
either, shall call the local law enforcement agency or the Animal Control
Officer immediately.
      (2)   If the local law enforcement agency is called, the agency shall:
         (a)   Notify the Animal Control Officer if foul play is suspected or
the death appears to be caused by factors other than an accident, such as a
vehicular collision, or natural causes if the animal is a domestic animal; or
         (b)   Contact the appropriate agency to properly dispose of the
animal's remains, i.e. the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Any deceased animal located on private property must be disposed of
within 24 hours in accordance with Indiana law, the policy and/or rules of the
State Board of Animal Health, or industry standards as the case may dictate.
The property owner is responsible for the disposal even if a third party was
responsible for the death of the animal.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 90.03 PURPOSES OF CHAPTER.
   The purposes of this chapter shall be for the protection and safety of all
residents and visitors and also the peace and enjoyment of all residents and
visitors.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.04 LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   During the time an animal is detained by the town, the town shall not be
responsible for any accidents or injuries to such animal and further shall not
be responsible for the animal if it is or becomes pregnant while detained.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.05 FINES; FEES.
   (A)   Payment. All payments and fines required in this chapter shall be made
to the Town Clerk/Treasurer unless otherwise stated in §§
90.01,
90.02 and
90.99 adopting the Boone County Animal Control Ordinance.
   (B)   Disposition. Fines and fees collected from the enforcement of this
chapter shall go into a fund which shall help purchase tags, food, shelter, and
other necessary equipment to assist in the enforcement of these provisions.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §§
10.25 and
10.99
§ 90.06 OFFENSIVE OR NOXIOUS ANIMAL CONDITIONS.
   It shall be declared a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter for
any person to keep within the town any animal or animals in such a manner as to
create or cause any offensive or noxious smell or condition, or maintain or use
any animal pen or shelter in such a manner as to permit the contents of filth
therein to run or wash upon premises owned or occupied by another or upon any
street or other public place. Any person found to be in violation of this
section and who fails to abate such nuisance within three days of receipt of
notice of violation shall be subject to the fine for nuisance abatement as set
forth in §
10.25, Schedule of Fines and Fees.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.07 DEFECATION OF ANIMALS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be declared a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter for
any person owning or having control or custody of any animal to permit the
animal to defecate upon the public property of the town or upon the private
property of another unless the person immediately removes the feces and
properly disposes of it; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
authorizes such person to enter upon the private property or allow their animal
(s) to enter upon the private property of another without permission. Disabled
persons who use service dogs are exempt from this provision. Any person found
to be in violation of this section shall be subject to the fine for nuisance
abatement as set forth in §
10.25, Schedule of Fines and Fees.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.08 NUMBER OF CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be considered a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter for
any person to possess or harbor more than a total of ten chickens, ducks,
geese, pigeons or any other fowl at one time at the owner's personal property
or place of business within the Town of Thorntown. This limitation restricts
the number to a total of ten chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons or any other fowl
per household regardless of how many individuals live in the household.
Additionally, this limitation restricts the number to a total of ten chickens,
ducks, geese, pigeons or any other fowl per place of business. Furthermore, it
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person in the Town of Thorntown to
own or harbor a rooster. A violation of this chapter shall subject the animal's
owner to a liability for a citation and a fine of $25 for each violation up to
and including three violations within a calendar year. Any animal owner being
cited for more than three violations of this chapter in any one calendar year
shall be liable for a fine of up to $100 for any additional violations during
that calendar year (unless otherwise stated in this chapter). Each day there
exists a violation of this chapter is considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.09 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to possess or
harbor any livestock, defined as any hooved animal, within the Town of
Thorntown. A violation of this chapter shall subject the animal's owner to
liability for a citation and a fine of $25 for each violation up to and
including three violations within a calendar year. Any animal owner being cited
for more than three violations of this chapter in any one calendar year shall
be liable for a fine of up to $100 for any additional violations during that
calendar year (unless otherwise stated in this chapter). Each day there exists
a violation of this chapter is considered a separate violation.
   (B)   Grandfather clause. Animals owned or harbored and exceeding the
ownership limits in this chapter at the time of passage of this chapter may be
registered with the Town of Thorntown Clerk/Treasurer's Office within 120 days
of passage of this chapter to be exempted from the ownership restriction
affecting them. Animals owned or harbored in excess of the ownership
restrictions herein and not registered within this time frame will not be
considered exempt.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    The owner of a domestic animal found to be roaming at large or stray
may be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent offense
involving the same animal occurring within one year.
   (B)   The owner of any animal, or person in whose care an animal is
entrusted, or other individual found to in violation of any provision of this
chapter relating to cruelty, abuse, mutilation, sacrifice or willful neglect of
an animal may be fined up to $1,000 for each offense or animal.
   (C)   For any other violation of this chapter, the owner may be fined up to
$100.
   (D)   In addition to any fines imposed, the owner may be responsible for any
and all court costs imposed and may be responsible to reimburse the county for
any and all legal costs associated with the enforcement proceeding.
   (E)   An Animal Control Officer may enter private property and investigate
any violation of the chapter and impound any animal where there is reasonable
suspicion that the animal is a public nuisance, or is subject to, or in danger
of, cruelty, abuse, or neglect.
   (F)   All violations of this chapter or any action seeking enforcement by
fine or injunction shall be filed and prosecuted by the Boone County Attorney
or his designee in Boone Superior Court.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 6-17-2019)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Damage to street signs or posts
Excavations
   
91.15   Permit required; fees; bond
   
91.16   Exemption
   
91.17   Notice of work; restoration
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local powers relating to public ways, see I.C. 36-9-2-5 et seq.
   Local regulation of excavations, see I.C. 36-7-2-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DAMAGE TO STREET SIGNS OR POSTS.
   Any person, including the owner or operator of a vehicle, who damages a
street sign or post of the town shall pay for all damages, including labor and
the replacement cost of the sign.
(1995 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 5-14-1990)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 91.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES; BOND.
   When an outside entity desires to commence construction for any purpose
within the public right-of-way of a street, alley, sidewalk or bicycle/
pedestrian pathway within the Town of Thorntown, the outside entity must submit
to the Town Council of the Town of Thorntown a permit application, which is
attached to Ordinance 2018-10 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by
reference, a $25 permit fee and a $1,000 bond.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 12-17-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 EXEMPTION.
   The town and any of its governmental units are specifically exempted from
the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 17-27)
§ 91.17 NOTICE OF WORK; RESTORATION.
   Any person excavating, digging, or cutting into any street or alley of the
town shall notify the Street Commissioner before taking any such action and
will repair such street or alley to a condition equal to its original condition
and to the satisfaction of the Street Commissioner. Failure to satisfactorily
repair any such street or alley shall result in revocation of the permit
provided for herein and forfeiture of the bond posted.
(1995 Code, § 17-29)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
violating an ordinance and forfeit and pay to the town a sum of not more than
$500 for each offense committed, plus the costs of prosecution. Violation of
any section shall be a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 17-28)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC HEALTH AND NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Abatement of public nuisances
   
92.03   Timelines for nuisances
Junk/Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Declared nuisance outside of lawfully operated junkyards
   
92.17   Storage in open restricted
   
92.18   Notice to remove from public property; removal by town
   
92.19   Notice to remove from private property; removal by town
   
92.20   Commercial screening for junk vehicles
   
92.21   Junk vehicles
Open Burning
   
92.35   Title
   
92.36   Purpose
   
92.37   Applicability
   
92.38   Definitions
   
92.39   Acts prohibited
   
92.40   Acts allowed
   
92.41   Variances
   
92.42   Burning guidelines
   
92.43   Ordinance enforcement authority
   
92.44   Investigation
   
92.45   Enforcement
   
92.46   Indirect liability
   
92.47   Applicability and effective date
Noise
   
92.60   Purpose
   
92.61   Definitions
   
92.62   Unlawful noise
   
92.63   Unlawful noise from a building or structure
   
92.64   Exemptions
   
92.65   Entry onto private property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A public nuisance is an object, act, occupation, condition,
or use of property which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, or obstruct, or tend
to obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, or other public
way, or use of public property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE AFFECTING HEALTH. The following acts, omissions, places,
conditions and objects are hereby specifically declared to be public nuisances,
but such enumeration shall not be considered to exclude other health nuisances
or hazards coming within the definition of “public nuisance” above:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drying
sold or offered for sale to public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animal, fowl, or fish not intended for human
consumption or food which are not buried or otherwise disposed of in
appropriate sanitary manner within 24 hours after the death of such animal,
fowl, or fish;
      (3)   Accumulation of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal, or any material
whatsoever in which flied, mosquitoes, disease- carrying insects, rats, or
other vermin may breed;
      (4)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation, which are
allowed to exceed one foot;
      (5)   All animals running at large;
      (6)   Any use of property which shall cause any nauseous or unwholesome
liquid or substance to flow into or upon any street, gutter, alley, sidewalk,
or public place within the town limits;
      (7)   A rat harborage where rats or other vermin can live and breed;
      (8)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects can
multiply;
      (9)   Any noxious odor area where emissions of any noxious odor, foul
odors, offensive odors, noisome odors, nauseous odors, gases, or any stench,
repulsive to the senses of ordinary persons are allowed to continue to the
substantial annoyance or substantial discomfort of persons or are allowed to
cause injury to persons or property;
      (10)   A well pollution area where pollution from the premises entering
the groundwater has caused a private or public drinking water on another
property to become contaminated;
      (11)   A surface water pollution area where pollution from the premises
entering the surface water has caused a private or public drinking water on
another property, or any river, stream, lake, ditch, canal, or other body of
water to become contaminated;
      (12)   An air pollution area where emissions of smoke soot, fumes, gases
ash, dust, or other pollutants into the atmosphere repulsive to the senses of
ordinary persons are allowed to continue to the substantial annoyance or
substantial discomfort of persons or are allowed to cause injury to persons or
property;
      (13)   An improper sewage area where the effluent from sewer, septic
tank, holding tank, or cesspool on the premises is in a condition and location
to cause a menace or danger to public health of person;
      (14)   A hazardous waste area where the discharge, storage or treatment
of hazardous, nuclear, or toxic waste are allowed to accumulate to the
substantial annoyance or substantial discomfort of persons or are allowed to
cause injury to persons or property; or
      (15)   A noxious material discharge area where the discharge, disposal,
storage, or treatment of noxious, filthy, decaying, or nausea materials
repulsive to the senses of ordinary person are allowed to continue to the
substantial annoyance or substantial discomfort of persons or are allowed to
cause injury to persons or property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY. The following acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and objects are hereby declared to be public nuisances
affecting peace and safety, however, such enumeration shall not be construed to
exclude other nuisances affecting peace or safety coming within the provisions
of “public nuisance” above:
      (1)   All signs and billboards, awnings, and other structures over or
near streets, sidewalks, public grounds, or places frequented by the public, so
situated or constructed as to endanger the public;
      (2)   All trees, hedges, or other obstructions which prevent persons
driving vehicles on public streets or alleys from obtaining a clear view of
traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk. Any such
obstruction which falls within a vision clearance triangle extending 25 feet
horizontally along each street line from their intersection and within a
vertical clearance of six feet shall be presumed to be a violation of this
definition;
      (3)   All limbs of trees which project over and less than eight feet
above the surface of a public sidewalk, or 14 feet above the surface of the
portion of the street or alley traveled by vehicles;
      (4)   The use or display of fireworks;
      (5)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated, or out of repair
as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human use or
occupancy;
      (6)   All loud, discordant, and unnecessary noises or vibrations of any
kinds, which greatly annoy or disturb a neighborhood or any considerable number
of persons within the town;
      (7)   The keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl which frequently or
habitually howl, yelp, bark, crow, or make other noises which greatly annoy or
disturb a neighborhood or any considerable number of persons within the town;
      (8)   All obstruction of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and
all excavation in or under same, except permitted by the ordinances of the town
or which although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept or
maintained for unreasonable or illegal length of time after the purpose thereof
has been accomplished;
      (9)   All open and unguarded pits, excavations, or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley, or sidewalk;
      (10)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes; or
      (11)   Repeated or continuous violations of the ordinances of the town
relating to the use or storage of flammable liquids.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES, OTHER. The following acts, omissions, places, conditions,
and objects are hereby specifically declared to be public nuisances offending
the comfort, health, repose, or safety of the town, but such enumeration shall
not be construed to exclude other public nuisances within the definition of
“public nuisances” above:
      (1)   All owners of property located within a residential district of the
town who fails to keep their premises free of litter, debris, trash, or rubbish
shall be in violation of this definition;
      (2)   All property owners within the town who allow their property to
accumulate trash, litter, or rubbish shall be considered to be in violation of
this definition;
      (3)   LITTER as used in this subchapter, includes, but is not limited to,
trash and wastepaper lying scattered about, and an untidy accumulation of
objects of any kind;
      (4)   TRASH as used in this subchapter includes, but is not limited to,
some thing or object worth little or nothing, or some thing or object in a
crumbled, broken, or inoperable condition; or
      (5)   RUBBISH as used in this subchapter includes, but is not limited to,
waste materials and refuse of every character and kind, collected and/or
accumulated.
(1995 Code, § 12-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Inspection of premises. Whenever a complaint is made to the Town
Council member or town police officer that a public nuisance exists within the
town, the Town Police shall promptly and forthwith inspect or cause to be
inspected, the premises complained of, and shall make a written report of his
or her findings to the Town Council. Whenever practicable, the Town Police
shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall file the same in
the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner.
         (a)   If the town police officers determines that a public nuisance
exists within the town and that there is great and immediate danger to the
public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the Town Council may direct
the town officers to serve a notice upon a person causing, permitting, or
maintaining such nuisance, whether an owner or occupant of the premises where
such nuisance is caused, permitted, or maintained. If immediate personal
service cannot be made, a copy of such notice shall be posted on the premises
in a location likely to attract the attention of the owner or occupant thereof,
as well as direct mail notice to the last known owner of said property.
         (b)   Such notice shall direct the person causing, permitting, or
maintaining such nuisance, or the owner or occupant to the premises, to abate
and remove such nuisance within 24 hours and shall state that unless such
nuisance is so abated, the town may cause the same to be abated and will charge
the cost thereof to the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting, or
maintaining the nuisance.
      (2)   Abatement by town. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant, or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the town officers in the case of health nuisances and other cases shall
cause the abatement or removal of such public nuisance.
      (3)   Abatement by Court action. If the enforcement officer shall
determine that a public nuisance exists on private premises, but that the
nature of such nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger
to the public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the officer shall file
a written report of his or her findings with the Town Council who shall cause
an action to abate such nuisance to  be commenced in the name of the town in
the county courts. In the alternative, the Town Council may direct the town
officers to issue one or more citations for each day of violation for a said
time period, and to report back whether compliance has occurred.
(1995 Code, § 12-2)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 TIMELINES FOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Timeline for public nuisances affecting health.
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (1)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (2)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (3)
See §                                                 5 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (4)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (5)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (6)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (7)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (8)
See §                                                 24 hours
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (9)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (10)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (11)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (12)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (13)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (14)
See §                                                 Immediately
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH division (15)
 
   (B)   Timeline for public nuisances affecting peace and safety.
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND 24 hours
SAFETY division (1)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND 24 hours
SAFETY division (2)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND 24 hours
SAFETY division (3)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (4)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND 30 days
SAFETY division (5)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (6)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (7)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (8)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (9)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND 10 (remove doors immediately)
SAFETY division (10)
See §
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND Immediately
SAFETY division (11)
 
   (C)   Timeline for public nuisances, other.
 
See §                                     10 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES OTHER division (1)
See §                                     10 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES OTHER division (2)
See §                                     10 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES OTHER division (3)
See §                                     10 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES OTHER division (4)
See §                                     10 days
92.01, PUBLIC NUISANCES OTHER division (5)
 
(1995 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. passed 7-19-2004)
JUNK/ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle left unattended on private property for 72 hours
without consent of the owner or lessee of such property or his or her legally
authorized agent;
      (2)   Any vehicle left unattended on private property without the consent
of the owner or lessee of the property or his or her legally authorized agent
when such private property has been posted to give notice that any vehicles
left on the private property without permission may be towed at the owner’s
expense. Such notice shall be posted with signs visible to ordinarily observant
persons on the property; or
      (3)   Any vehicle left unattended on public property, including any
portion of a highway, street, alley or other right-of-way for 24 hours or
longer unless the owner or driver has conspicuously affixed a dated notice
stating his or her intention to return or has otherwise notified the Police
Department of his or her intention to remove it within 72 hours.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle missing wheels, tires,
windshield, motor, or transmission, or which has been so damaged as to appear
not safely operable. Any vehicle that remains parked or near the same location
for more than 30 consecutive days shall be presumed to be inoperable.
   JUNK VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle that is partially dismantled, wrecked, or extensively
damaged or deteriorated, including, but not limited to, vehicles with deflated,
wrecked, or missing tires or rims; missing or wrecked body parts; broken or
missing headlights, taillights, or brake lights; broken, cracked, or missing
windows or windshields; or missing all or part of the motor or transmission;
and is not capable of lawful operation on public roads at the time of any
notice or citation issued by a town police officer.
      (2)   JUNK VEHICLES shall include, but not limited to:
         (a)   Automobiles;
         (b)   All-terrain vehicles;
         (c)   Motorcycles;
         (d)   Trailers;
         (e)   Semi-trailers;
         (f)   Semis;
         (g)   Trucks; and
         (h)   Wagons.
      (3)   This definition does not include vehicles in the process of routine
maintenance or repair, such as oil changes, cleaning, changing a flat tire,
minor rust repairs, and similar activities.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. Readily visible by a person on a public street,
sidewalk, or adjacent lot to the premises.
   USE OF VEHICLES FOR STORAGE. No junk vehicles or vehicles as defined in this
subchapter shall be used for the use of storage of any kind for more than five
days.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power, and includes
campers, trailers, and other equipment designed to be carried upon or towed
behind such powered vehicle; designed to travel along the ground by use of
wheels, treads, runners, or slides, or upon such vehicle, and transport persons
or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, airplane, truck, trailer, camper, motorcycle, motor scooter,
recreational vehicle, tractor, wagon, semi, and semi-trailers.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 2004-2, passed - -)
§ 92.16 DECLARED NUISANCE OUTSIDE OF LAWFULLY OPERATED JUNKYARDS.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and rodents and
because of the danger to the safety of children attracted by junked, abandoned,
wrecked, disassembled, or inoperable and unlicensed motor vehicles, such
vehicles are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and must meet state requirements
for financial responsibility except as provided in §
92.17.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 92.17 STORAGE IN OPEN RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
public or private property within the corporate limits of the town, any
disassembled, or inoperable and unlicensed, junk, wrecked, or abandoned motor
vehicle for a period of five or more days on public property, or for a period
of 15 or more days on private property, unless it is in connection with an
automotive sales or repair business enterprise which operated under a duly
issued and exhibited store license and is located in a properly zones area. The
provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to auto salvage yards and/or
junkyards that ore duly operated and licensed by the state and the town, and
are operated and located in a properly zoned area.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-21-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 NOTICE TO REMOVE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY; REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   Whenever the officer shall find any vehicle described in §
92.17 placed or stored in the open upon public property within the corporate
limits of the town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle
to remove such vehicle within three days. Notice of such order shall be placed
upon such vehicle. If such vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to
such order and notice, the officer shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a
junk or salvage yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of such
vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 92.19 NOTICE TO REMOVE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY; REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the officer shall find any vehicle described in §
92.17 placed or stored in the open upon private property within the corporate
limits of the town, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of such vehicle
to remove such vehicle within ten days.
      (2)   Notice of such order shall be placed upon such vehicle and copies
of such notice shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate on
which such vehicle is located and also upon the owner of the vehicle, if his or
her name and his or her hereabouts be known, if no occupant of the real estate
or owner of such vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the
real estate shall constitute notice to the owner and occupant of the real
estate and to the owner of such vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   If there is no building on the real estate, such notice may be
affixed elsewhere on the real estate.
      (2)   If such vehicle is not removed with ten days pursuant to such order
and notice, and if such order is not stayed by the issuing officer pursuant to
a written request showing good cause for a permanent or temporary stay, the
officer shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or
wrecker service, the cost and expense of such removal by the junk or salvage
yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of such vehicle.
(Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 92.20 COMMERCIAL SCREENING FOR JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Authorized junk yards, scrap metal processing facilities, and
automobile repair facilities shall be required to completely screen junk
vehicles from public streets and adjoining property.
      (2)   Such screening shall consist of fencing and or block or brick
walls. Any screening shall be in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Fences or walls shall be neatly constructed of opaque material
and maintained to ensure opaqueness;
         (b)   It shall not be less than six reel in height above ground;
         (c)   It shall be maintained in a condition so as to ensure
opaqueness; or
         (d)   It shall not contain advertising.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   General prohibition. Except as expressively provided by law, no person
shall deposit, store, maintain, collect, or permit the deposit, storage,
maintenance, or collection of junk vehicle on his or her premises or on any
premises under his or her control unless such vehicle is stored out of ordinary
public view by means of storage inside a completely enclosed building. No work
on a motor vehicle shall be performed between the hours 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
and as required by all other laws. Further no sounds shall be louder than can
be heard and or felt from 50 feet away. No person(s) shall be permitted to use
any vehicles (including junk or abandoned) for storage purposes.
   (B)   Exemptions to general prohibitions. Businesses regulated by the
provisions of §
92.20 are exempt from this section.
   (C)   First notice of violation.
      (1)   The enforcing officer shall send a first notice of violation, by
regular U.S. mail, to the person(s) having the right possession of the premises
on which a vehicle is located in violation of this section. Alternatively, the
notice may be posted in prominent place on said premises or served personally.
      (2)   The first notice of violation shall identity the nature of the
violation and shall state that the vehicle(s) in violation must be fully
repaired, removed, or fully enclosed within15 days of the receipt or posting of
the notice or the person(s) having the right to the possession of the premises
shall be guilty of this section and subject to criminal penalties set forth in
§
92.99(B).
   (D)   Second notice of violation.
      (1)   If the enforcing officer determines that the violation identified
in the first notice of violation, as provided for in division (C) above, has
not been fully remedied within 15 days, the enforcing officer shall send a
second notice of violation, by regular U.S. mail, to the person(s) having the
right of possession of the premises on which the vehicle is located in
violation of this section. Alternatively, the notice may be posted in prominent
place on said premises or served personally.
      (2)   The second notice of violation shall identify the nature of the
violation and shall state that the person(s) having the right to the possession
of the premises is in violation of this section and subject to the criminal
penalties set forth in §
92.99(B). The notice shall further state that said person(s) is subject to
prosecution and further legal action, if the vehicle(s) in violation is not
fully repaired, removed, or fully enclosed within 15 days of the receipt or
posting of the second notice of violation.
      (3)   After the expiration of the 15-day period provided for in division
(D)(2) above, the enforcing officer may request that appropriate legal action
be brought.
   (E)   Violations. The penalties for any person who violates this section
shall be those penalties specified in §
92.99(B).
   (F)   Compliance with sate law. Nothing within this section shall be
construed as impairing the town’s right to take appropriate action under any
provision in the state laws.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter is titled “Open Burning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.36 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the town due to the air pollution and fire hazards
of outdoor burning and burning trash.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.37 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and trash burning within the
town.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane, natural gas in cooking, or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace, or other heating device unless the material being burned includes
trash as defined in §
92.38.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a device intended for heating
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. To any situation that because of:
      (1)   The type of material being burned (i.e., hazardous or noxious
materials);
      (2)   The atmospheric conditions during the burning; or
      (3)   The careless nature in which the burning is occurring; poses a
threat to the public health, the safety of public or private property, or the
welfare of the environment.
   EXEMPTION. Defined under 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3, EXEMPTIONS include, but are not
limited to, allowances for open burning to occur when burning clean untreated
wood and natural wood products (including leaves), charcoal; and other
traditional food cooking fuels; vegetation from a farm; an orchard, a nursery,
a tree farm, or a drainage ditch; as well as fires used for recreational or
ceremonial purposes, such as school pep rally fires or the celebration of scout
activities, unless prohibited by a burn ban or local ordinance.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any waste that because of its quantity; concentration;
or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled, disposed of,
or otherwise managed;
      (3)   Be non-degradable or persistent in the environment;
      (4)   Be biologically magnified;
      (5)   Cause or tend to cause cumulative effects; or
      (6)   Be defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.3 and any future amendments.
   NOXIOUS MATERIALS. Materials that, when burned, produce byproducts that may
be injurious to human health or the environment. This list of materials shall
include, but not limited to, tires, roofing material, treated lumber, waste
oil, oil contaminated products, herbicide/pesticide products, and their
containers.
   OPEN BURNING. Defined under 326 I.A.C. 4-1-0.5(6) as the burning of any
materials wherein air contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted
directly into the air, without passing through a stack or chimney from an
enclosed chamber.
   PERSON. Defined under I.C. 13-11-2-158 as any individual, partnership, co-
partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, municipal corporation, school, city, town, school district,
school corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency, a contractor, or any other legal entity.
   PREDOMINANTLY WOODEN STRUCTURE. A clean wood structure with no coatings,
wiring, plumbing fixtures, or other non-wood items.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, or other discard or disposed
materials including solid, liquid, or semi-solid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from any operation, activity, or source. For the purposes of this
subchapter, this definition excludes hazardous materials as defined above.
   STACK. A duct, chimney, flue, or other conduit arranged for the purpose of
emission or channeling of air pollutants into the atmosphere.
   TRASH. Any waste material except clean wood products and leaves.
   UNATTENDED BURNING. The burning of materials without a person in attendance.
This definition shall include, but not be limited to, leaving the property
where open burning is occurring, being outside of visual sight of where the
open burning is occurring, going indoors while open burning, and leaving a fire
before it is fully extinguished.
   VARIANCE. A permit allowing open burning with the approval of the IDEM -
Office of Air Quality Compliance Branch or its designated agent or agents.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.39 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Burning of all hazardous materials and all noxious materials, as
defined within this subchapter, or as defined by any state or federal laws,
rules, or regulations.
   (B)   Burning of household trash either on the ground or in a burn barrel,
including, but not limited to, food waste, packaging, newspaper, corrugated
cardboard container board, office paper, plastic containers, polystyrene, and
disposable diapers.
   (C)   Wood products that are painted, varnished, or stained including, but
not limited to, plywood or composite wood products.
   (D)   Unattended burning that creates or could create an emergency
situation.
   (E)   Any burning not exempt as provided herein or allowed by a variance.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 ACTS ALLOWED.
   (A)   All acts as defined by I.C. 13-17-9-1, subject to the conditions of
I.C. 13-17-9-3, and as amended, including exemptions as defined herein;
   (B)   Burning of clean wood; and/or
   (C)   Recreational or ceremonial fires that meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper products
can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 125 cubic feet. (For
example: five feet long, five feet wide, and five feet high.)
      (4)   The fires shall not be used solely for disposal purposes.
      (5)   Fires shall not take place within 50 feet of any fuel storage area
or pipeline.
      (6)   Burning of predominantly wood structures on real property of wood
remnants of the demolition of a predominantly wooden structure originally
located on real properly.
      (7)   The Town Police and Sugar Creek Fire Department must be notified 72
hours (three days) before the planned burn.
      (8)   All allowed acts and variances are subject to and shall adhere to
this subchapter policies and guidelines as adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 VARIANCES.
   Variances must be obtained from the IDEM - Office of Air Quality - Air
Compliance Branch or its designated agent or agents for the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
   (B)   Burning for the purpose of fire training; or
   (C)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation or removal
of natural growth for change in the use of the land.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.42 BURNING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All allowed acts and variances must follow these guidelines (defined
in 326 I.A.C. 4-1-3).
      (1)   Only wood products or other pre-approved material may be burned.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished
and all cold.
      (3)   Burning shall occur only in daylight hours with the exception of
rallies and recreational or ceremonial fires.
      (4)   If a fire creates an air pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire
hazard, it shall be extinguished.
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, and the
like.
      (6)   All persons during burning shall have sufficient fire suppression
equipment present.
      (7)   Burning must be in compliance with any state and/or local burn
bans.
   (B)   Any granted variance cannot violate the provisions of the 326 I.A.C.
4-1-3 et seq. and as amended, or I.C. 13-17-9.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The following shall be authorized enforcement agents in the enforcement of
this subchapter within the limits of the town: area law enforcement officials
serving the town, county, or state.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.44 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agents to evaluate
any report or complaint of a violation of this subchapter for proper
enforcement procedures.
   (B)   (1)   If access to property is granted, the investigation shall
proceed on a voluntary basis. If access is needed to proceed with any
investigation, but is denied, the authorized enforcement agents may seek any
necessary authorizations, including a search warrant, to enter the property;
provided, however, in cases of a visible emergency situation, access to
property shall be deemed granted.
      (2)   Any pertinent evidence may be considered to determine whether a
violation of this subchapter has occurred and the identity of any violator.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 92.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a condition violating this subchapter exists on real property, the
authorized enforcement agents may take the following actions:
      (1)    In cases of actions violating this subchapter, a summons and
citation ordering to offender to county courts may be issued.
      (2)   In cases of an emergency situation, an authorized enforcement
agent, as set forth herein, may take immediate action to suppress the fire. If
action to suppress the fire and bring the property into compliance is taken,
the costs of these actions may be recovered as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with any
authorized enforcement agent while in the performance of his or her duties
hereunder.
   (C)   The owner(s) of property on which illegal burning acts have occurred
may be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person who
committed the violation.
   (C)   A summons and citation of subchapter violation shall state the name of
the person(s) to whom the notice is being issued, the nature of the violation,
the specific section of this subchapter that has been violated, the date of the
notice, and the fine imposed, if warranted, for the violation in accordance
with this subchapter. The notice of subchapter violation shall be filed in the
town.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46 INDIRECT LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material(s) which constitutes or contributes to a fire causing air pollution
may not refute liability for the violation of this subchapter on the basis that
said fire was set by vandals, accidental, and/or act of God, pursuant to 326
I.A.C. 4-1.
   (B)   A property owner cannot direct another person to carry out actions in
violation of this subchapter or knowingly allow another person to carry out
actions in violations of this subchapter on his or her properly.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the entirety of the town.
   (B)   This subchapter shall become effective from and after its adoption and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015)
NOISE
§ 92.60 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of the Town of Thorntown
that:
   (A)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property within the town has so
increased as to constitute a public nuisance;
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property and is prolonged in its
time, place and use, adversely affects and is a detriment to the comfort,
repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to the town;
and
   (C)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the declaration of this
public policy as set forth in the provisions of this section is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and is designed to secure and promote the
comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to
the town.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed
location on or in the ground. Structures include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas and public and private infrastructure.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.62 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to make, create or maintain any noise that is: (1) unreasonably
loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive or an obstruction to the free
use of property within the town; or (2) adversely or substantially affects,
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace
and safety of others within the town. Accordingly, the following acts, among
others, are declared to be unlawful noises in violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   Construction or repair of buildings or structures. The erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation therefore
at any times other than between the hours of dusk to dawn, Monday through
Sunday. There shall be an exception to this constituting unlawful noise in the
case of an emergency or urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety, but then only with a permit from the Town Building Inspector which
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days while the emergency
or urgent necessity continues and which permit may be renewed for an additional
period up to three additional days while the emergency or urgent necessity
continues.
   (B)   Music and electronic devices. Playing, using or operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio or television set, musical
instrument, or other machine or electronic device for producing or reproducing
sound in such a manner as to make, create or maintain an unlawful noise, or at
any time with volume louder than is necessary for convenient hearing of the
person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine
or electronic device is operated. The operation of such set, instrument,
machine or electronic device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
Sunday through Thursday, and between 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m, Friday and
Saturday in such a manner as to be plainly audible in the immediate vicinity of
the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this division.
   (C)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of any unlawful noise created
by the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, or any type of engine or
power unit on a motorcycle or other motor vehicle or craft of any kind, except
through a muffler or other device that will effectively reduce and prevent
unlawful noise therefrom except for farm vehicles. A motor vehicle must be
equipped with a muffler or
other noise dissipation device that is in good working order and is in constant
operation to prevent unlawful noise.
   (D)   Special use vehicles and equipment. The operation of off-road
vehicles, ATPS, snowmobile and other special use vehicles shall be prohibited
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.63 UNLAWFUL NOISE FROM A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit persons creating unlawful
noise or persons of disorderly character to assemble in any building or
structure owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her. A person who
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engages in conduct which makes unlawful
noise and continues to do so after being directed or requested to stop commits
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.64 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Noise or sounds emitted from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (B)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances or any other event authorized by the town;
   (C)   Noise arising from or created by athletic or sporting practices or
events;
   (D)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary and within the normal range
appropriate for such use and do not constitute unlawful noise. Noises
ordinarily associated with agricultural uses. Noises ordinarily associated with
aircrafts, airports and trains; and
   (E)   Fireworks used in accordance with I.C. 22-11-14.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.65 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized town law enforcement officers or representatives
in the course of their duties in enforcing this subchapter shall have the right
to enter onto private property, provided that they have probable cause that a
violation of this subchapter is occurring or has occurred, but they shall not
enter into any structure or building without permission or authorization to do
so.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter the Town Marshal or its authorized representatives are hereby
authorized to make inspections of all sources of noise whenever necessary to
determine the quantity and character of such noise. If any person refuses or
restricts entry and free access to any part of a building or structure, or
refuses inspection of any activity, device, facility, motor vehicle, or process
where inspection is sought, such officer of the town or their authorized
representatives may seek from the County Court a warrant for inspection
requiring that such person permit entry and free access without interference,
restriction or obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose of
inspecting, testing or measuring noise. The County Court shall have power,
jurisdiction and authority to enforce all orders issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.21 is guilty of the following offenses and shall be subject to the following
penalties below:
      (1)   For a first offense, a written warning;
      (2)   For a second offense (whether or not of the same sections of §§
92.15 through
92.21, occurring not sooner than 30 days and not later than two years after the
first offense), the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not less
than $250, no portion of which may be suspended;
      (3)   For a third offense (whether or not of the same section of §§
92.15 through
92.21, occurring not sooner than 30 days and not later than two years after the
first offense), the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not less
than $500, no portion of which may be suspended; and
      (4)   For a fourth offense and each subsequent offense (whether or not of
the same section of §§
92.15 through
92.21, occurring not sooner than 30 days and not later than two years after the
first offense), the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not less
than $500, no portion of which may be suspended, or shall impose a sentence of
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, with no portion of the imprisonment
sentence to be suspended, or may impose both such a fine and sentence of
imprisonment.
   (C)   The penalties for §§
92.35 through
92.47 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense shall be $50 to $100;
      (2)   Second offense shall be $500; and
      (3)   Subsequent offenses shall be $500, plus cost of prosecution.
   (D)   The penalties for §§
92.60 through
92.65 shall be as follows. If any duly authorized town law enforcement officer
or representative has probable cause that a violation of §§
92.60 through
92.65 is occurring or has occurred, the town officer or representative shall
first give a verbal warning to the person believed to be violating §§
92.60 through
92.65. After issuance of the verbal warning from the town officer or
representative, the town officer or representative may write a ticket for a
subsequent or continuing violation of the provisions of §§
92.60 through
92.65. A person violating the provisions of §§
92.60 through
92.65 or an order issued under authority of §§
92.60 through
92.65 after receipt of a verbal warning shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation. A violation of §§
92.60 through
92.65 shall carry a fine, which fine shall be an amount, fixed by the court in
its discretion, not greater than $250 per violation, or $100 if paid at least
seven days in advance of the scheduled hearing or appearance date in court for
such violation.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed - -; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-
18-2018; Ord. 2018-5, passed 6-18-2018)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real-estate related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Exemptions
   
93.10   Administrative enforcement of chapter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)    A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05,
93.06,
93.07, or
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in “familial status” above. Also, pursuant to
24 C.F.R. pt. 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families
regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or
marital status of its members.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the
United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.08, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth title in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time.
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations, regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
      (1)   The person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division (G) above, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   Premises within such dwellings contain the following features of
adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physical disabled people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1")
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (H) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL-ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; or
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)    Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03, 93.04, 93.05, or 93.06.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; and
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 93.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of
the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any citizen, because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
93.08, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-20-2012)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Thorntown Park
   
94.01   Alcoholic beverages
   
94.02   Operation of vehicles
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Town Park Board, see §
31.51
Statutory reference:
   Park and Recreation Law, see I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
THORNTOWN PARK
§ 94.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage within the Thorntown Park, except during special events
which events are approved in advance by the Town Council and are for the
positive promotion of the town.
   (B)   It remains unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage within the Thorntown Park at any time except during said special
events that are specifically exempted from this provision by the Town Council.
   (C)   In the event a determination is made by any law enforcement officer
that a person is in violation of the prohibition concerning possession or
consumption of alcoholic beverage within the Thorntown Park, except for during
the exempted special event, the officer may proceed to enforce the prohibition
under all existing ordinances, including the penalty provision stated in §
94.99 of the Town of Thorntown, Indiana, Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 5-20-19) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 111
§ 94.02 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate motorized vehicles
within the Thorntown Park other than in a designated driveway or parking area
established as such by the Town Park Board pursuant to its rules and
regulations and marked as such.
   (B)   Any driveway or parking area marked as such shall be so designated by
a sign.
(1995 Code, § 14-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of §§
94.01 or
94.02 shall be guilty of violating an ordinance and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $500, and the costs of the prosecution shall be adjudged
against the defendant.
(1995 Code, § 14-1)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Compliance required
   
110.03   Exception
   
110.04   Itinerant merchant’s license
   
110.05   Solicitor’s certificate
   
110.06   Orders taken by solicitors
   
110.07   Hours of business
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local business regulations, see I.C. 36-8-2-10
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any transient person who shall engage temporarily in the
making or selling of any kind of goods, wares, or merchandise, including the
making and selling of photographs, within the town, regardless of whether such
goods, wares, or merchandise are peddled from house-to- house, sold upon the
streets or other public places, or sold from any room, building, or structure
or lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying on such business.
   SOLICITOR. Any itinerant person who goes from house-to-house or from place-
to-place in the town, selling or taking orders for, or offering to sell or take
orders for goods, wares, or merchandise or any article for future delivery;
provided, however, this chapter shall apply only to solicitors who demand,
accept or receive payment or a deposit of money in advance of final delivery.
(1995 Code, § 9-26)
§ 110.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of itinerant
merchant or in the business of solicitor, within the town until the provisions
of this chapter have been complied with.
(1995 Code, § 9-27) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales or dealers by
commercial travelers, nor to sales producers of farm or dairy products.
(1995 Code, § 9-29)
§ 110.04 ITINERANT MERCHANT’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to engage in the business of
itinerant merchant within the town shall make an application, in writing, to
the Town Clerk/Treasurer for a license so to do, which application shall be
filed with the Clerk/Treasurer at least seven days before such applicant shall
be authorized to begin such business. Such application shall state the name and
residence of the applicant, the place where such business is to be conducted,
the kinds of goods to be sold, and the length of time for which the license is
desired.
   (B)   Fees. Upon the filing of such application, the approval by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer to such applicant to begin business shall be not less than
seven days after the date of filing such application, upon the payment of such
fees as are set by the Council from time to time. All such license fees must be
paid in advance.
   (C)   Renewal. If any licensee under this section desires to continue in
business after the expiration of the license, a new license must be secured in
the same manner and upon the same terms as the original license.
   (D)   Exemptions. Any person exempted by the laws of this state from the
payment of the license fees levied under this section shall, before beginning
such business, present to the Town Clerk/Treasurer his or her credentials,
showing that he or she is entitled to such exemption. Upon approval by the
Clerk/Treasurer, he or she shall then receive a certificate from the Clerk/
Treasurer authorizing him or her to engage in the business of itinerant
merchant within the town for any period of time not longer than one month. If
at the end of a month such person desires to continue in such business, another
certificate must be procured from the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 9-16-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 110.05 SOLICITOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to engage in the business of
solicitor within the town shall, before engaging in such business, file with
the Town Clerk/Treasurer an application containing his or her name and address,
the firm or corporation which he or she represents and the kinds of goods to be
offered for sale, and the length of time during which he or she desires to
engage in such business.
   (B)   Issuance. Upon the filing of such statement, and the approval by the
Town Clerk/Treasurer, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall issue to such applicant a
certificate authorizing him or her to engage in the business of solicitor
within the town during the time requested in the application.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 110.06 ORDERS TAKEN BY SOLICITORS.
    All orders taken by solicitors within the town shall be in writing, in
duplicate, stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance, and one
copy of such order shall be given to the purchaser.
(1995 Code, § 9-32)
§ 110.07 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   The business day of any itinerant merchant or solicitor shall be from 9:00
a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
(1995 Code, § 9-33) (Ord. 1992-4, passed 9-21-1992)
§ 110.99 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not exceeded the amount required to be paid for a license under this
chapter. Each day any person engages in the business of itinerant merchant or
solicitor in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 9-28)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Issuance of permits for sale
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see I.C. 7.1-1-1 et seq.
§ 111.01 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR SALE.
   The consent of the town is hereby given and granted upon the proper legal
authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for the sale of
alcoholic, spirituous beverages to applicants otherwise duly qualified to
premises located within the town, all agreeable to the provisions of I.C. 7.1-
3-9-3 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 3-1)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Regulations
   
130.001   Congregating in public places
   
130.002   Disturbing place of worship or meeting
   
130.003   Interference with officials
   
130.004   Deposit of objectionable wastes
   
130.005   Business fire zone
Firearms
   
130.020   Discharge of cannons, firearms generally
   
130.021   Permission required
Curfew For Minors
   
130.035   Violations
   
130.036   Curfew times established; ages 15 to 17
   
130.037   Curfew times established; under age 15
   
130.038   Exceptions
   
130.039   Procedure upon finding minor in violation
   
130.040   Second violation
Civil Emergencies
   
130.055   Definitions
   
130.056   Proclamation by Council
   
130.057   Imposition of curfew
   
130.058   Additional regulations
   
130.059   Emergency powers
Noxious Weeds and Grass
   
130.070   Definitions
   
130.071   Purpose
   
130.072   Removal of grass and weeds
   
130.073   Notice to correct condition
   
130.074   Work by town, collection of expense
 
   
130.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
Curfew, local options, see I.C. 31-6-4-2
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 130.001 CONGREGATING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to congregate or cause to be congregated a
crowd of three or more persons upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking
lot, school or school grounds, building, or any other public place within the
town so as to obstruct the same or as to hinder passers-by or occupants of
adjacent premises, or as to interfere with the activities normally carried on
the premises.
(1995 Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 DISTURBING PLACE OF WORSHIP OR MEETING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town by any loud or
unnecessary talking or shouting or by any threatening, abusive, profane, or
obscene language or violent action, or by any other rude behavior, to
interrupt, molest, annoy, or disturb any group of persons convened for the
purpose of worship, or in like manner to interrupt, molest, annoy, or disturb
any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(1995 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally impede or interfere, or
attempt to impede or interfere with any firefighter or any other town official
in the performance of his or her duty or emergency functions as a firefighter
or town official.
(1995 Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Resisting law enforcement, see I.C. 35-44-3-3
§ 130.004 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1995 Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 BUSINESS FIRE ZONE.
   That part of the town included within the territory bounded and described as
follows, to-wit: beginning at the northwest corner of the public square in the
original plat of the town, and run thence west to the northwest corner of Lot
No. 39 in said original plat; thence south to the southwest corner of Lot No.
26 in the original plat; thence east to the railroad right-of-way, following
the railroad right-of-way in a northwesterly direction to Bow Street, thence
west to Market Street, thence south to the place of beginning, is hereby
designated, and shall be and constitutes the business fire zone of the town.
(1995 Code, § 13-6)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage storage, burning trash, and the like, see §
50.04
FIREARMS
§ 130.020 DISCHARGE OF CANNONS, FIREARMS GENERALLY.
   The Town Council President and two Council members may authorize the
discharge of cannons and firearms in commemoration of any important event.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed - -)
§ 130.021 PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREARM. Any device, by whatever known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas, or
escape of gas.
      HANDGUN. Any firearm:
         (a)   Designed or adapted so as to be aimed and fired from one hand,
regardless of barrel length;
         (b)   Any firearm with:
            1.   A barrel less than 16 inches in length; or
            2.   An overall length of less than 26 inches.
(I.C. 35-47-1-6)
      PERSON. Extends and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms,
partnerships, bodies (political and corporate), or any group acting as a unit
as well as to natural persons.
   (B)   Special permission, exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge any firearm (or) cannon or detonate any explosives any place within
the corporate limits of the town, or to assist any other person or persons to
engage in any such discharging or detonation, unless such person has been
granted special permission by the Town Council, provided, however, this section
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who shall so discharge a firearm in the
lawful performance of his or her duty;
      (2)   Any person who shall so discharge a firearm in the lawful
protection of life or property when the surrounding facts and circumstances
justify such actions;
      (3)   Any person who shall discharge a firearm during ceremonial
occasions, approved by the Town Council;
      (4)   Members of the U.S. Armed Services or Reserve Forces or State
National Guard, while in the performance of their official duties; or
      (5)   (a)   The discharge of an air gun, BB gun, or pellet gun if the
weapon is only discharged on private property, utilizing a proper and safe
backstop which will prevent any projectile or projectiles from passing through
the backstop and beyond the boundary of the private property.
         (b)   In addition, if the person using and discharging the weapon is a
minor, he or she must be under direct supervision of a parent or legal guardian
at all times.
         (c)   This special exception does not grant immunity from any civil or
criminal action due to damage and/or injury that might occur due to the
improper handling, unsafe discharge, failure to supervise, or any other actions
which are inconsistent with this exception.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.999
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.035 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation of the curfew law if a minor is in a public place or
way after the time periods set forth in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 13-56)
§ 130.036 CURFEW TIMES ESTABLISHED; AGES 15 TO 17.
   For minors ages 15 years and over, up to and including age 17, the curfew
times shall be as follows:
   (A)   Between 12:00 a.m. on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
   (B)   Between 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
and 6:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
(1995 Code, § 13-57) (Ord. 1985-9, passed 10-9-1985) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 CURFEW TIMES ESTABLISHED; UNDER AGE 15.
   For minors under the age of 15 years, the curfew times shall be after 10:00
p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(1995 Code, § 13-58) (Ord. 1985-9, passed 10-9-1985) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 EXCEPTIONS.
   The curfew times established in this subchapter do not apply to a child who
is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian, or
custodian; and/or
   (C)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school sanctioned activity; or
      (3)   A religious event.
(1995 Code, § 13-59) (Ord. 1985-9, passed 10-9-1985)
§ 130.039 PROCEDURE UPON FINDING MINOR IN VIOLATION.
   A minor who is in violation of this subchapter shall be either detained
until his or her parents are located, at which time the minor shall be released
to the parents or shall be returned to the minor’s residence and released to
his or her parents. The police officer on duty or the Marshal shall, in their
discretion, also have all remedies and penalties available under I.C. 34-28-
5 and 36-1-6 and any other sections relating to acts of juvenile delinquency.
(1995 Code, § 13-60) (Ord. 1985-9, passed 10-9-1985)
§ 130.040 SECOND VIOLATION.
   The law enforcement officers are to contact the County Department of Public
Welfare if a minor is stopped twice for a curfew violation.
(1995 Code, § 13-61) (Ord. 1985-9, passed 10-9-1985)
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 130.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the town
resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of property to
such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the town during the hours in which a curfew
has been imposed, excepting persons officially designated to duty with
reference to a civil emergency.
(1995 Code, § 13-81)
§ 130.056 PROCLAMATION BY COUNCIL.
   When, in the judgment of the Town Council, a civil emergency is deemed to
exist, it shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of same. In case
the absence of all the members of the Council from the town, the Chief of
Police shall be authorized to act in its stead.
(1995 Code, § 13-82)
§ 130.057 IMPOSITION OF CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Town Council, the Council may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the town or to
the town as a whole, as it deems advisable and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as it deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare.
(1995 Code, § 13-83)
§ 130.058 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Town Council may also in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   (B)   Order the closing of all taverns;
   (C)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (F)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
   (G)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of firearms and/or ammunition; or
   (H)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1995 Code, § 13-84) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.059 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   During the period of a declared state of emergency, the Town Council shall
have the power to invoke any or all of the following provisions.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages
in a public street or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor vehicle
driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted area.
   (B)   Weapons. No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club,
brick, or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the
persons or property of another.
   (C)   Incendiary missiles. No person shall make, carry, possess, or use any
type of “Molotov cocktail”, gasoline, or petroleum base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile.
   (D)   Restricted areas. No person shall enter any restricted area unless in
the performance of official duties or with written permission from the Town
Council duly designated representatives, or such person shall prove residence
therein.
(1995 Code, § 13-85) Penalty, see §
130.999
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS
§ 130.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRASS. Any grass which has not been cut and is over the height of 12 inches.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Any weed over 12 inches in height, defined by the USDA as of
a prohibited or restricted nature and including, but not limited to, Canadian
and bull thistles, bind weed, wild garlic, wild grasses such as crab, Johnson,
pepper and quack, giant fox tail, wintercrest, buck horn, corn cockle, curled
dock, dodder, horse nettle, oxcye daisy, pennycrest, wild mustard, and horse
weeds.
(1995 Code, § 13-106) (Ord. 1984-11, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 130.071 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that noxious weeds be cut by
property owners in a reasonable manner as set out below and upon failure to do
this providing a violation thereof.
(1995 Code, § 13-107) (Ord. 1984-11, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 130.072 REMOVAL OF GRASS AND WEEDS.
   Owners of real property in the town are required to cut and remove weeds and
grass growing on that property which exceeds that allowed pursuant to this
subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 13-108) (Ord. 1984-11, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.073 NOTICE TO CORRECT CONDITION.
   Upon notice of a violation of this subchapter, the property owner shall be
served with written notice requiring that the violation be cured within five
days and that such notice shall be issued by the Clerk/Treasurer and sent to
the landowner by certified mail addressed to the landowner’s last known
address.
(1995 Code, § 13-109) (Ord. 1984-11, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 130.074 WORK BY TOWN, COLLECTION OF EXPENSE.
   If the land owner fails to remove the grass and weeds within the time
prescribed, the town shall remove the grass and weeds. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall make a certified statement of the actual costs incurred by the town in
the removal. The statement shall be delivered to the owner of the property by
certified mail, and the owner shall pay the amount to the Clerk/Treasurer. If
the land owner fails to pay the amount within ten days after receiving the
statement, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be filed in the
office of the Auditor of the county in which the property is located. The
Auditor shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against the
property affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected as taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(1995 Code, § 13-110) (Ord. 1984-11, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any
provision of this chapter or any order made by the Town Council in accordance
with the terms of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500.
(1995 Code, § 13-1)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
130.020 or
130.021 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a violation of §§
130.020 or
130.021, any weapon seized by law enforcement authorities shall be confiscated
by the trial court and, when no longer needed for evidentiary purposes, the
court may transfer such weapon to the County Sheriff’s Department who shall
dispose of such firearm within the intent of state law.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of confiscated weapons, see I.C. 35-47-3 et seq.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, AND PARKS
      
152.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT; ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Purpose
   
150.002   Scope
   
150.003   Compliance
   
150.004   Prohibitions
   
150.005   Nuisance declared
   
150.006   Right of appeal
   
150.007   Workmanship
   
150.008   Effect of annexations
Building Inspector
   
150.020   Office created
   
150.021   Compensation
   
150.022   Authorities
   
150.023   Remedies
Permits and Inspections
   
150.035   Permits required
   
150.036   Application
   
150.037   Accompanying data
   
150.038   Record
   
150.039   Review
   
150.040   Action by Building Inspector
   
150.041   Ground for denial
   
150.042   Approval, disapproval; appeal
   
150.043   Issuance
   
150.044   Fees
   
150.045   Inspection required
   
150.046   Number of inspections
   
150.047   Assistance by Fire Chief
   
150.048   Right of entry
   
150.049   Stop-work order
   
150.050   Certificate of occupancy
Building Standards
   
150.065   Authority
   
150.066   Title
   
150.067   Purposes
   
150.068   Scope and territorial applicability
   
150.069   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.070   Violations
   
150.071   Effective date
   150.072   Addresses
Setbacks; Dimensions
   
150.085   [Reserved]
   
150.086   [Reserved]
   
150.087   [Reserved]
   
150.088   [Reserved]
   
150.089   [Reserved]
   
150.090   Variances
Satellite Television Antennas
   
150.120   Installation generally
   
150.121   Setbacks
   
150.122   Permit required
   
150.123   Application for a permit; fee
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.140   Adoption of Unsafe Building Law
   
150.141   Administration of Unsafe Building Law
   
150.142   Unsafe building conditions
   
150.143   Public nuisance declared
   
150.144   Construction
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Nuisances, §§
92.01 through
92.03
   Nuisance declared, §
150.005
Statutory reference:
   Building inspection and regulations, see I.C. 36-7-2-3 et seq.
   Enforcement of building standards, see I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.
   Zoning ordinance, see I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures.
(1995 Code, § 5-26) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, demolition, use, occupancy, and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than industrial building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4 in the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-27) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988; Ord. 2019-7, passed 6-17-
2019)
§ 150.003 COMPLIANCE.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with this
subchapter and all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such
(1995 Code, § 5-28) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.004 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove,
convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure,
other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary
to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-29) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.005 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any person erecting, building, demolishing, or maintaining any structure or
building within the town in violation of the provisions of this subchapter is
guilty of maintaining a nuisance and such nuisance shall be ordered abated as
part of the punishment therefor. The cost of the prosecution shall be adjudged
against the defendant.
(1995 Code, § 5-31) (Ord. 2019-7, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
92.01 through
92.03
§ 150.006 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Inspector first through the town and then to the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-
7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(1995 Code, § 5-32) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.007 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures under this subchapter shall be performed in a good and workmanlike
manner according to accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(1995 Code, § 5-33) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.008 EFFECT OF ANNEXATIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to any lands annexed to and which may become a
part of the town at any future date, and the lands so annexed shall be bound
the same as they would have been bound had they been a part of the town at the
time of the passage of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-34)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.020 OFFICE CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector of the town.
   (B)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as officer for the
enforcement of the zoning and building ordinances of the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-46)
§ 150.021 COMPENSATION.
   The Building Inspector of the town shall receive compensation for his or her
services from the fees of the building permit, and should the fees of the
building permit not be sufficient, the town shall reimburse the Building
Inspector for the charges incurred in inspecting the area subject to the
building permit.
(1995 Code, § 5-57) (Ord. 1984-12, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 150.022 AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever in this subchapter it is provided that anything must be done
to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Inspector or any
other officer of the town, this shall be construed to give such officer only
the discretion of determining whether this subchapter has been complied with;
and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary
powers as to what this subchapter shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this subchapter in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner.
   (C)   Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under
I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(1995 Code, § 5-58) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.023 REMEDIES.
   The Building Inspector shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in the
county courts for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to
secure compliance with any order or orders made by the Building Inspector, and
any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action
to recover the penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-59) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 150.035 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
demolition, or repair of any building or structure coming under this
subchapter, the cost of which exceeds $1,000 using forms furnished by the
Building Inspector, and all fees required by this subchapter shall be paid to
the Clerk/Treasurer of the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-61) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988; Ord. 2019-7, passed 6-17-
2019)
§ 150.036 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to construct, alter, demolish or repair a building or
structure requiring a permit shall file with the Clerk/Treasurer a written or
printed application in which shall be set forth a description of the precise
location of such proposed building; the size of the building he or she proposes
to build, construct, demolish or remodel; the character or kind of material he
or she proposes to use; the cost of the completed building or structure; and
the use of which such building is to be put.
(1995 Code, § 5-62) (Ord. 2019-7, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 150.037 ACCOMPANYING DATA.
   No building permit shall be issued unless the application for a permit is
accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot
boundaries, and plans and specifications showing the work to be done. In
addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building Commissioner
and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the
Building Inspector before issuance of a permit for construction covered by such
design release.
(1995 Code, § 5-63) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.038 RECORD.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of all applications received under
this subchapter as a separate record to be provided for that purpose in which
such applications shall be recorded at full length, together with the action
thereon.
(1995 Code, § 5-64)
§ 150.039 REVIEW.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(1995 Code, § 5-65) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.040 ACTION BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated and authorized as the
enforcement officer to approve or disapprove each application under this
subchapter. The Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver all such applications to the
Building Inspector as soon as practical. The Building Inspector shall review
such application as soon as practical and approve or disapprove such
application and so notify the Clerk/Treasurer.
(1995 Code, § 5-66)
§ 150.041 GROUND FOR DENIAL.
   The Building Inspector shall deny any application for a building permit for
any of the following reasons:
   (A)   If any part of such application violates any applicable provision of
this Code;
   (B)   If any part of such application is a violation of any law of the
state; or
   (C)   If any part of such application would be materially detrimental to the
public welfare.
(1995 Code, § 5-67)
§ 150.042 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   If the application for a building permit is approved, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall issue the permit.
      (2)   If disapproved, the Building Inspector shall state his or her
reason for denial and the applicant may amend his or her application to conform
with the recommendations of the Building Inspector and the Clerk/Treasurer
shall issue a permit on such amended application as approved by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)    (1)   If disapproved and no amendment to the application is made, the
applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision of the Building Inspector
to the Town Council by filing a written appeal setting forth his or her
contentions therein within 20 days of the denial of such application.
      (2)   The Council shall review such appeal at its next regular meeting.
If the denial of such application is reversed, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue
a building permit. If the denial of such application is sustained, no building
permit shall issue.
(1995 Code, § 5-68)
§ 150.043 ISSUANCE.
   If a building permit application shall be approved, a written or printed
permit shall be issued by the Clerk/Treasurer, which permit shall describe the
proposed building and its location as the same is described in such
application. The applicant shall not erect, demolish or construct any building
or structure or another kind, character or description than the one described
in the application and permit. A building permit will expire the earlier of two
years from the date of issuance, or when removed from public display.
(1995 Code, § 5-69) (Ord. 2019-7, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 150.044 FEES.
   Permit fees and inspection fees which are imposed under this subchapter
shall be in the amounts determined from time to time by the Town Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-70) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 150.045 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector shall
make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are
necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and
the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-71) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.046 NUMBER OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Buildings constructed under this subchapter and for which a permit has
been issued shall be subject to inspections as follows.
      (1)   Inspections; type of constructions; required inspections.
Type of Construction Required Inspections
Type of Construction                    Required Inspections
Accessory buildings (residential)       1
Additions/alterations (all occupations) 2
Apartments, hotels, motels, each unit   3
Business, commercial, public            6
Education, institutional, church        6
Industrial, warehouse, bulk storage     4
Mobile homes, temporary structures      1
One- or two-family dwelling, detached   4
 
      (2)   Building Inspector discretion to increase required inspections. For
unusually large or complex buildings or structures, the Building Inspector
shall have the power to increase the number of required inspections by 50%. The
Building Inspector shall in all cases designate the stage of construction when
each required inspection must be requested by the permit holder.
   (B)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior inspection.
No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, or thermal insulation work shall be
covered without prior inspection. Where additional inspections are required due
to failure of the permit holder to have work ready for inspection at a
designated stage of construction, the Building Inspector shall have the power
to assess a reinspection fee for each such additional inspection. Reinspection
fees shall be paid to the Clerk/Treasurer prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall submit an annual report to the Clerk/
Treasurer which shall include an analysis of inspections performed, permit fees
collected, cost of inspection operations, and recommendations for adjustment of
required inspections and single inspection fees as necessary.
(1995 Code, § 5-72) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.047 ASSISTANCE BY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designated representative may
assist the Building Inspector in the inspection of fire suppression, detection
and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such inspections to the Building
Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-73) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.048 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-74) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.049 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done.
   (B)   Any such person shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Inspector to proceed with the work.
(1995 Code, § 5-75) (Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988)
§ 150.050 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building
or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-76) Penalty, see §
150.999
BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 150.065 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-7-2-9 and
I.C. 22-13-2.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.066 TITLE.
   This chapter and all amendments hereto shall be known as the “Building Code
of the Town of Thorntown”, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to
herein as “this Code”.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.067 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.068 SCOPE AND TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
    The provisions of this Code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4, in the town limits.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.069 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set out in the following titles of the State Administrative
Code, see I.A.C. Title 675, are hereby incorporated by reference in this Code
and shall include later amendments to those articles as the same are published
in the State Register of the State Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling;
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code amendments; and
         (c)   Standards for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes; State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes, and standards are on file in
the office of the State Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.070 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences or decks, less than four feet above
ground, under the jurisdiction of this Code or cease or permit the same to be
done.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after adoption of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 150.072 ADDRESSES.
   (A)   All houses and buildings fronting on public streets in the town shall
be numbered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Address numbers shall be a minimum of four inches in height and shall
be located either near a building’s main entrance, above the garage door, or on
a surface that is easily visible from the street of address. Additional
displays of assigned numbers may be displayed at the property owner’s
discretion. Assigned numbers shall be displayed with Arabic numerals in a color
that contrasts with the color of the subject house or building. Address
displays in script are prohibited. Houses or buildings that are set back more
than 100 feet from a street’s curb are required to display address numbers
within 50 feet of the street curb, on a surface that is easily visible from the
street of address.
   (C)   Any contractor or builder in charge of the greater part of the work of
erecting any house or building in the town shall report the location thereof to
the Town Council and shall cause said number to be placed on said house or
building.
   (D)   The responsibility for the displaying of the assigned number for each
existing house and building in the town, as of the effective date of this
section, shall rest with the property owner, trustee, lessee, agent or occupant
of each house or building.
   (E)   Any person who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
section, or who shall number or attempt to number any house or building other
than in conformity with this section, and fail to correctly display the address
number within 30 days after being notified in writing to do so by the Town
Marshal, shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation and subjected to a
fine of not less than $25 and not more than $100.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
SETBACKS; DIMENSIONS
§ 150.085 [RESERVED].
§ 150.086 [RESERVED].
§ 150.087 [RESERVED].
§ 150.088 [RESERVED].
§ 150.089 [RESERVED].
§ 150.090 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person may apply for a variance from the setback provisions or any
other provisions of this subchapter. Such variance application shall be made to
the Town Council.
   (B)   A person applying for a variance shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   A person shall first obtain an application for a variance from the
Clerk/Treasurer and fill out the application.
      (2)   A person shall then request to be placed on the agenda for the
Council meeting. Such request shall be made so that property owners required to
be notified shall have at least 15 days’ notice of the Council meeting.
      (3)   A person applying for a variance shall send an application
requesting the variance to all property owners whose property touches the
property affected by the variance, including those property owners who touch
even though separated by a street, alley, or other connecting way and shall
inform the property owners that the person has applied for a variance and that
persons may be heard regarding the variance at the date and time set for the
Council meeting. The notice to property owners shall be sent certified mail,
return receipt requested. A person applying for a variance shall forego this
provision only in the event that he or she shall provide the Council with
written consents from the above-described property owners consenting to the
variance.
      (4)   The meeting provided for in this section shall be considered a
public meeting, however, notice of such hearing shall not be required to be
published in the Lebanon Reporter or any other newspaper if the person applying
for the variance has obtained the written consent of all property owners who
must be notified under division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   The person applying for the variance shall apply for the variance
with the Clerk/Treasurer and shall pay the permit fee which corresponds with
the type of work contemplated and pursuant to the fee schedule set out in §
150.044.
      (6)   The Building Inspector shall inspect the premises and shall render
an opinion to the Council regarding the issuance of the variance.
      (7)   At the public hearing on the issue of the variance, the Town
Council shall hear evidence presented both in favor and against if any exists
and shall issue a decision as to the variance based on the following criteria:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
         (d)   The strict application of the terms of this subchapter will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         (e)   The variance does not interfere substantially with the overall
purpose of this subchapter and the person cannot comply with this subchapter
without undue hardship.
      (8)   At the conclusion of the evidence presented, a Board member shall
make a motion to either grant or deny the variance. The motion must pass by a
majority of the Council in order to be effective.
      (9)   Decision of the Council shall be final and may be appealed only as
provided by state law.
      (10)   If the variance is granted the permit shall be issued and complied
with strictly. If the variance is not granted, the person applying for the
permit shall forfeit one-half of the fee for the Building Inspector’s use in
providing the Council with an opinion as to the granting of the variance.
(1995 Code, § 5-126) (Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-1988; Ord. 1989-1, passed 8-14-
1989) Penalty, see §
150.999
SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS
§ 150.120 INSTALLATION GENERALLY.
   In all residential areas, a satellite television receiving antenna having a
diameter greater than four feet shall be located on the ground and pursuant to
the restrictions in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-171) (Ord. 1984-10, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 150.121 SETBACKS.
   No satellite television receiving disk or antenna erected in the town shall
be set so that any part thereof extends within 20 feet of the street line or
within ten feet of the rear line or within six feet of either side line on the
building lot.
(1995 Code, § 5-172) (Ord. 1984-10, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.122 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A building permit shall be required prior to the permanent placement of a
satellite television antenna having a diameter greater than four feet.
(1995 Code, § 5-173) (Ord. 1984-10, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 150.123 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT; FEE.
   A person desiring to erect a permanent satellite television antenna should
apply for a building permit at the office of the Clerk/Treasurer and the fee
for such permit shall be as set from time to time by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-174) (Ord. 1984-10, passed 8-23-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.140 ADOPTION OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   The Town of Thorntown hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. which establishes
the Indiana Unsafe Building Law and explicitly incorporates by reference the
definition of "substantial property interest" found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.141 ADMINISTRATION OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized to administer
this subchapter. The "enforcement authority" as defined by I.C. 36-7-9-2 shall
be the Town of Thorntown Building Inspector, or such organization that the Town
Council may contract with to provide building inspection services for the town.
The "hearing authority" shall be the Town of Thorntown Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.142 UNSAFE BUILDING CONDITIONS.
   The definition of unsafe buildings and unsafe premises described in I.C. 36-
7-9-4 and all amendments thereto is hereby supplemented to provide more
specific descriptions of the conditions which render a building unsafe. When a
violation is cited, the Indiana Code number shall be specified along with a
more specific itemized violation(s) set out in this subchapter. Any building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described shall be deemed to be an unsafe building, provided that such
condition or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety
to the public or its occupants are endangered. Specific descriptions are as
follows:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and life loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location.
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location.
   (E)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable
of resisting a wind pressure of one half of that specified for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for such buildings.
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof was wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of: (1) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (2) faulty construction; (3) the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building; (4) the deterioration, decay or inadequacy
of its foundation; or (5) any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
   (I)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings.
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become: (1) an attractive nuisance to children; or (2) freely accessible to
persons for the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure has been construed, exists, or it
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this
town, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings.
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the: (1) strength; (2) fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics; or (3) weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required
by law in the case of a newly constructed building or like area, height and
occupancy in the same location.
   (O)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the county health
department or its designated representative to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exists, lack or
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the fire
chief of the town or his or her designated representative to be a fire hazard.
   (Q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.143 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9 et seq.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.144 CONSTRUCTION.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
150.001 through
150.008, if any person shall violate any of the provisions of §§
150.001 through
150.008, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Inspector,
or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the
Building Inspector in connection with the provisions of §§
150.001 through
150.008 for each such violation, failure, or refusal, such person shall be
fined in any sum as determined from time to time by the Town Council.
      (2)   Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this division (B) shall constitute a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 5-30)
   (C)   (1)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.065 through
150.071 or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully ordered, within the time prescribed by the Building Inspector, or
shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Inspector in connection with the provisions of this Code for each such
violation, failure, or refusal, such person, firm, or corporation shall be
subject to a civil penalty for each violation in an amount not more than
$2,500.
      (2)   Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this division (C) shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   The failure to obtain a building permit pursuant to §§
150.120 through
150.123 shall result in a fine in such amount as set from time to time by the
Town Council, to which may be added the costs of prosecution.
(1995 Code, § 5-175)
   (E)   Violations of §§
150.140 through
150.144 shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1984-10, passed 8-23-1984; Ord. 1988-2, passed 5-4-1988; Ord. 2007-2,
passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-17-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, AND PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Proscriptions
   
151.03   Alterations deemed conversion to dwelling unit
   
151.04   Required amenities
   
151.05   Occupancy without sewer system connection deemed unlawful
   
151.06   Mobile home permits
   
151.07   Licensed parks exempt from chapter
   
151.08   Moratorium on new park
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. Any unit used as a place of abode for one or more
human beings; which is equipped with wheels or similar devices used for the
purpose of transporting such unit from place-to-place, whether by motive power
or other means, and includes any such unit, whether the wheels have been
removed therefrom or not, and specifically includes any vehicle mounted on
wheels or equipped so that the same may be mounted on wheels and propelled
either by its own power or by another power-driven vehicle to which it may be
attached.
(1995 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 151.02 PROSCRIPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Place, park, stand, or locate, or allow to be placed, parked, stood,
or located upon any land he or she owns any mobile home which does not meet
with the approval of the Building Inspector as to its condition and
acceptability to the town;
   (B)   Place, park, stand, or locate any mobile home on real estate which
such person does not own or to allow any person to place, park, stand, or
locate any mobile home on real estate which such person does not own;
   (C)   Remove or cause to have removed the axles or any similar transporting
device from any mobile home or trailer or to otherwise permanently fix it to
the ground in a manner which would prevent the ready removal of such mobile
home or trailer without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Building
Inspector of the town;
   (D)   Place a mobile home on a town lot of less than 7,200 square feet with
a minimum frontage of 56 feet;
   (E)   Place a mobile home in the town without a tie-down system that will
prevent the mobile home from being rolled or pushed from its foundation by wind
forces up to 80 mph. Such tie-down system shall have a minimum of three tie-
downs per side;
   (F)   Place a mobile home within the town limits which has less than 400
square feet of living area, not including patios and porches.
(1995 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 ALTERATIONS DEEMED CONVERSION TO DWELLING UNIT.
   Any alteration to any mobile home as set forth in §
151.02 shall be construed as removing it from the requirements of this chapter
and converting it into a dwelling, subject to the requirements of
Ch. 152 and Building Code of the town governing the erection and construction
of residential buildings.
(1995 Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 151.04 REQUIRED AMENITIES.
   Mobile homes placed in the town shall have:
   (A)   A connection to the sanitary sewer system of the town, to be approved
by the Building Inspector of town;
   (B)   Off-street parking, which shall be provided for not less than two
autos; and
   (C)   Skirting, which shall be included within 30 days after issuance of the
permit, of a type to blend with the design and color of the mobile home, and of
a noncombustible material, except that framing may be of wood.
(1995 Code, § 10-4) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 151.05 OCCUPANCY WITHOUT SEWER SYSTEM CONNECTION DEEMED UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permanently locate for occupancy any
mobile home, motor home, or travel trailer within the corporate limits of the
town without approved connection to the sanitary sewer system of the town.
(1995 Code, § 10-5) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 MOBILE HOME PERMITS.
   (A)   The fee for a mobile home permit shall be in an amount as set from
time to time by the Town Council, including a certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   Mobile home permits, applications for mobile home permits, and
certificates of occupancy shall be available at the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s
office.
   (C)   Applications must be submitted for all proposed placings, locations,
or parking of mobile homes, and the permit must issue before the mobile home
may be placed, located, or parked.
   (D)   No occupancy of the mobile home shall be allowed prior to issuance of
the certificate of occupancy by the town’s Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 10-6) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
§ 151.07 LICENSED PARKS EXEMPT FROM CHAPTER.
   Mobile home parks or trailer parks which are properly licensed by the state
are specifically exempted from the provisions of this chapter, except that this
provision shall in no way exempt the business of operating a mobile home park
or trailer park from the Ch. 152 and Building Code of the town.
(1995 Code, § 10-7) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989)
§ 151.08 MORATORIUM ON NEW PARK.
   No one shall cause a new mobile home park to be established within the town
limits, or cause a present park to be expanded, after March 15, 1993.
(1995 Code, § 10-8) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and forfeit and pay to the town a sum as set from time to time by
the Town Council for each offense so committed, plus the costs of prosecution.
Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 10-9) (Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees and fines, see §
10.25
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT; ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title and authority
   
152.02   Purpose and intent
   
152.03   Applicability
   
152.04   Compliance
   
152.05   Severability
   
152.06   Comprehensive plan
   
152.07   Official zoning map
   
152.08   Regulations of non-conforming lots, uses and structures
   
152.09   Definitions
Zoning Application Procedures
   
152.10   General application and review procedure
   
152.11   Amendment (rezone and/or text amendment)
   
152.12   Subdivision (platting)
   
152.13   Planned Unit Development
   
152.14   Variance
   
152.15   Development plan
   
152.16   Improvement location permit
   
152.17   Administrative appeal
   
152.18   Exempt entities
   
152.19   Planning administration agencies
Zoning Districts and Permitted Uses
   
152.20   Zoning districts designation
   
152.21   Permitted uses
   
152.22   Residential District
   
152.23   Business District
   
152.24 - 152.26   [Reserved]
   
152.27   Overlay Districts
   
152.27.A   Planned Unit Development (PUD) District
Official Thoroughfare Plan
   
152.30   Thoroughfare plan components
   
152.31   Designation of thoroughfares
   
152.32   Opening or widening of streets
   
152.33   Location of thoroughfares
   
152.34   Consideration by Council
   
152.35   Issuance of permits
   
152.36   Continuing authority of Council
Floodplain Control Regulations
   
152.40 - 152.49   [Reserved]
Subdivision Control Regulations
   
152.50   Purpose; objectives; applicability
   
152.51   General provisions
   
152.52   Application procedure
   
152.53   Design and improvement principles and standards
   
152.54   Waivers of subdivision regulations
   
152.55   Inspection of improvements
Development Standards
   
152.60   General provisions
   
152.61   Accessory structures
   
152.62   Parking, loading and vehicular circulation
   
152.63   Landscaping and screening
   
152.64   Open space and amenities
   
152.65   Exterior lighting
   
152.66   Signage
   
152.67   Clear sight area
Site Design and Improvement Standards
   
152.70   General regulations
   
152.71   Monuments
   
152.72   Block and lot layout, anti-monotony
   
152.73   Transportation system
   
152.74   Drainage, erosion, and sediment control
   
152.75   Sewer facilities
   
152.76   Water facilities
   
152.77   Other utilities
   
152.78   Preservation of existing natural and historic features
   
152.79   Street landscaping
   
152.80   Nonresidential subdivisions and developments
   
152.81   Easements
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see §
31.53
Statutory reference:
   Platting and vacation of real property, see I.C. 36-7-3-1 et seq.
   Subdivision control, see I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be formally known as the “Town of
Thorntown Zoning Ordinance,” and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance,” “this ordinance,” or “Subdivision Control Ordinance.”
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is adopted by the town pursuant to its
authority under the laws of the State of Indiana, I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. Whenever
codes cited in this chapter refer to Indiana Code (“I.C.”
or “Indiana Code”) or Indiana Administrative Code (“I.A.C.”) which has been
amended or superseded, then this chapter is deemed amended in reference to the
new or revised code.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to secure adequate light, air, convenience of
access, and safety from fire, flood, and other danger; lessen or avoid
congestion on public streets; lessen congestion in public ways; preserve,
protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
community in the town. More specifically, this chapter is adopted to achieve
the following objectives:
   (A)   Implement the policies and goals contained within officially adopted
plans, including the comprehensive plan;
   (B)   Provide for orderly and sustainable growth and development of suitable
neighborhoods with adequate transportation networks, drainage, utilities,
facilities, and appropriate building sites;
   (C)   Promote development patterns that support that promote walkability and
compact community form;
   (D)   Promote a land-management strategy intended to restore community
health, reduce flooding, and protect the quality of natural resources and
agricultural sustainability;
   (E)   Protect water quality within watershed critical areas;
   (F)   Encourage environmentally responsible development practices;
   (G)   Promote growth of residential, commercial, recreation/conservation and
other land uses outside of the town’s present corporate limits which maintain
the compact form of the community;
   (H)   Revitalize and promote commercial activities within the town to
strengthen the town’s economic base;
   (I)   Protect local agricultural landscape and historic heritage of the
town.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter applies to all land, buildings, structures
and uses located within corporate limits of the town. To the extent allowed by
law, the provisions of this chapter apply to all land, buildings, structures,
and uses owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by any district, county, state
or federal government agencies.
   (B)   Exempt entities. The following governmental agencies and entities may
be exempt from this chapter with approval by the Town Council: The Town of
Thorntown, Sugar Creek Township, Boone County, the State of Indiana, Western
Boone County Community School Corporation, Thorntown Public Library, and
regulated public utilities (hereinafter “exempt entities”). This exemption
shall not apply to any state or federal building or fire code except for local
ordinance requirements as applicable (see also § 152.18) for permit process.
   (C)   Effective date. This ordinance was adopted on
                        , 2022 and became effective on                       ,
2022 by Ordinance No.                .
   (D)   Ordinance format. The structure of the text of this chapter is as
follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4db9493c09d4426d276f4771b2dd8fd23f64c067/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.png]
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted, enlarged or used, nor shall any piece of land be used, nor
shall any existing use be expanded except when in full compliance with all
provisions of this chapter and the permits and certificates required by this
chapter have lawfully been issued.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision or the application of any provision of this chapter is held
unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the remainder of this chapter or the
application of such provision to other circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.06 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The comprehensive plan of the town, as amended from time to time,
establishes the policies for land use that are the underlying policies of this
chapter. The comprehensive plan is adopted pursuant to state law. It contains
officially adopted policy statements as well as maps. These maps and policies
shall be consulted when land use decisions pursuant to this chapter are being
made, and used as criteria in making decisions upon land use requests.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.07 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Establishment of the official zoning map. The boundaries of the zoning
districts are hereby established on a map entitled, “Town of Thorntown Official
Zoning Map”, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this chapter.
Notations, references, indications, and other matters shown on the official
zoning map are as much a part of this chapter as if they were fully described
herein. The official zoning map shall be formally known as the “official zoning
map” and it may be cited and referred to as the “Thorntown zoning map” or the
“zoning map.”
   (B)   Official zoning map location. The official zoning map is located in
the office of the Planning Commission and may be maintained as an electronic
zoning map.
   (C)   Interpretation of map boundaries. The zoning district boundaries shall
be shown on the official zoning map. If any uncertainty exists with respect to
the intended boundaries as shown on the official zoning map, the Planning
Administrator is authorized to interpret the boundaries. District boundaries on
the official zoning map shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   Zoning district boundaries shown within or parallel to the lines of
roads, easements, and transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to follow
the centerline of the affected road, easement, or right-of-way.
      (2)   Zoning district boundaries shown within or parallel to the lines of
roads, easements, and transportation rights-of-way at the boundaries of the
planning jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the full width of such roads,
easements, and transportation rights-of-way.
      (3)   Zoning district boundaries indicated as following or being parallel
to section or fractional sectional lines, platted lot lines, or town
corporation lines shall be construed as following or paralleling such lines.
      (4)   Zoning district boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerline of streams, rivers, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines as they may naturally shift over time.
      (5)   Zoning district boundaries indicated as approximately following the
parcel lines as established by the Boone County Surveyors Office shall be
construed to follow such parcel lines.
      (6)   The vacation of streets shall not affect the location of zoning
district boundaries. Such boundaries must be reviewed, and, if necessary, a
formal amendment shall be made to the official zoning map.
      (7)   When the Planning Administrator cannot determine the location of a
zoning district boundary, the BZA shall determine the location of the zoning
district boundary.
      (8)   The Overlay District boundaries on the official zoning map shall be
interpreted as follows:
         (a)   An overlay district shall be depicted on the official zoning map
with a hatch or textured pattern and be identified as such on the map legend.
         (b)   A lot that is fully covered (bounded) by an overlay district
shall be entirely subject to the overlay district standards found in §
152.27.A.
         (c)   A lot that is partially covered (transected) by an overlay
district shall be subject to the overlay district to the extent that the lot
area is covered by the overlay district.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2023-08, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 152.08 REGULATIONS OF NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, AND STRUCTURES.
   Upon the adoption of this chapter, the zoning map, and potentially upon
other government action (e.g., acquisition of right-of-way), some buildings,
structures, lots and uses may no longer conform to the regulations of their
zoning district. This section provides the rules, policies, and regulations
that apply to these buildings, structures, lots and uses.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   Illegal uses and structures. Illegal uses and structures existing
at the time when this chapter is enacted shall not be validated by virtue of
its enactment.
      (2)   Legal nonconforming. Legal nonconformance is caused by an amendment
to this chapter and not due to a change to the property, resulting in the
property no longer conforming to the standards of the applicable zoning
district. When this situation occurs, the property is deemed legal
nonconforming and is subject to the terms of this chapter.
      (3)   Illegal nonconforming. A building, structure, sign, or lot
constructed or used without an approved building permit, improvement location
permit or approval from the BZA or Plan Commission is considered illegal
nonconforming when it does not conform to this chapter. An illegal
nonconforming property is subject to enforcement and penalties as set forth in
§
152.99 and all other applicable state or municipal law. The illegal
nonconforming property must be altered to conform to all applicable standards
and regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   Burden of owner to establish legality of nonconformity. The burden
of establishing the legality of a nonconformity that lawfully exists under the
provisions of this chapter is upon the property owner of the nonconformity and
not upon the town.
      (5)   Undue hardship. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require
a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building or
development on which construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. Where demolition or removal of an
existing building has been substantially begun prior to rebuilding, such
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be construction, provided that the
work shall be carried on diligently.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Single nonconforming lots of record. In any district in which
single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary
accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record after the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter notwithstanding
limitation imposed by other provisions of this chapter. Such lot must be in
separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same
ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet the
requirements for area and/or width that are generally applicable in the
district provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area and/or width of the lot shall conform to the regulations for
the district in which such lot is located. This section shall apply only to
single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Lots in combination. If two or more lots or a combination of lots
and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record
at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the
lots with no buildings do not meet the requirements established for lot width
and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for
the purposes of this chapter; and no portion of said parcel shall be used or
sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area
requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel
be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in
this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Where, at the time of adoption of this
chapter, lawful uses of land exist which would not be permitted by the
regulations imposed by this chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they
remain otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (2)   Enlargement. No such nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or
increased nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter. However, the
nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were
clearly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment
of this chapter.
      (3)   Moving. No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in
part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (4)   Termination by abandonment. If any such nonconforming uses of land
are discontinued or abandoned for more than one year (except when government
action impedes access to the premises), any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which
such land is located.
      (5)   New construction. No additional or accessory structure not
conforming to the requirements of this chapter shall be erected in connection
with such nonconforming use of land.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Where a lawful structure exists on the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not now be
built under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot,
coverage, height, setbacks, its location on the lot, bulk, or other
requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Alteration. No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or
altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
      (3)   Ordinary repair and maintenance. On any nonconforming structure or
portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done in any
period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to an extent
not exceeding 10% or the current replacement cost of the nonconforming
structure and market value of real estate, or nonconforming portion of the
structure, whichever the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing
when it became nonconforming shall not be increased. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition
of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged
with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official. If a
nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming
use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it
shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Moving. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any
distance, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
      (5)   Damage or destruction. Should such nonconforming structure or
nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of
more than 50% of the fair market value of the building immediately prior to the
damage, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (E)   Nonconforming development characteristics of site.
      (1)   Authority to continue. If a characteristic of development or use
lawfully exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter
that would not now be allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter,
the lawful characteristic of development or use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, except as otherwise provided below. Such
characteristics of development or use shall include, but not be limited to,
items such as landscaping, lighting, parking lots, refuse containers, and
screening.
      (2)   Alterations to the site requiring compliance. Any additions to the
building or the site that increase the area by more than 40% shall require that
any nonconforming characteristics of development or use shall comply with the
standards of this chapter.
   (F)   Structure alteration or new construction in existing subdivision. Any
existing structure or proposed structure meeting the requirements of the
adopted primary or secondary plat shall be allowed to construct a new structure
or modify an existing structure without having to seek a variance from the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A secondary use on a property that is incidental and
subordinate to a primary use located on the same property, and which does not
alter or change the character of the premises.
   ADDITION. An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building
or structure.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY. Any property adjacent to, directly across a private or
public street, or directly diagonal to the subject property.
   ADVISORY PLANNING LAW. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-101.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk, or easement,
designed to provide a secondary means of vehicular access to the side and rear
of the lots.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as load bearing walls,
columns, beams, or girders.
   AMEND OR AMENDMENT. Any repeal, modification, or addition to a regulation;
any new regulation; any change in the number, shape, boundary, or area of a
district, or any repeal or abolition of any map, part thereof, or addition
thereto.
   APPLICANT. The owner, owners, or legal representative of land who makes
application to the town. Written consent shall be required from the legal owner
of the premises.
   APPLICATION. The completed form or forms, together with any other materials,
exhibits, and fees as required of an applicant pursuant to this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building that is underground but having at least
half its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE(S) (BMP(S)). The control of pollutants from
municipal separate storm sewer systems for the purpose of demonstrating and
determining controls that are cost- effective and that use innovative
technologies to manage, reduce, treat, recapture, or reuse municipal
stormwater, including techniques that utilize infiltration, evapotranspiration,
and reuse of stormwater onsite.
   BLOCK. An area of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, rights-of-way, common area(s), railroad rights-of-way, waterway
(s), or any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed, built, and used for the shelter,
protection, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property, and which is
permanently affixed to the land. A BUILDING is also a STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building or structure located on the same
lot as a principal building which does not alter or change the character of
communications, electric, gas, water, and sewer lines, their supports and
incidental equipment, and public telephone booths shall be considered accessory
uses even though no principal building exists on the premises.
   BUILDING, ADDITION. Construction that increases the square footage of an
existing structure or building.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building that has no structural connection with any
other building or structure.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot in which said building is situated.
   BUILDING, REMODEL. The alteration of an existing structure or building.
   BUILDING MASSING. This is an effect of bulky homogenous monotonous mass of
buildings created by placing similarly-sized and designed buildings close to
each other at a similar distance.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. An area on a corner lot that shall be free from visual
obstructions between two and ten feet above grade so that a driver, rider or
pedestrian can see oncoming pedestrians and vehicles. Visual obstructions
include, but are not limited to, buildings, structures (e.g., sign, fence, and
the like), trees, shrubs, or ornamental grasses. Street grade is measured at
the intersection of the street and/or alley centerlines. The CLEAR VISION AREA
is formed by a diagonal line connecting:
      (1)   Two points measured 15 feet equidistant from the lot corner along
each property line at the intersections of two local streets or one local
street and one alley; or
      (2)   Two points measured 25 feet along each property line at the
intersection of a local street and a collector, arterial or expressway or any
combinations thereof.
      For rounded lot lines, the distances are measured from the point at which
the right-of-way lines would intersect if they were not rounded at the corner.
   COMMITMENT. A covenant concerning the use or development of a parcel of real
property made in writing by the owner of that parcel, either voluntarily or by
an order or request of the Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the
Town Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015.
   COMMON AREA. An area held in common by an owners’ association, not located
in rights-of-way, and not located on individually owned private property.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the planning jurisdiction of the town prepared by the Advisory
Plan Commission of the town and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-500.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A plan for a subdivision or development of land that shows in
general terms the proposed land use, density, circulation, natural
characteristics, and typical development of the area to be developed, as well
as adjacent affected properties, and traffic.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings showing the specific location and
design of improvements to be installed.
   COVENANT (DEED RESTRICTION). Private and legal restrictions of various kinds
on the usage of lots, typically within a subdivision and applied by the
subdivider.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See definition of STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.
   CUT. An excavation, the difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public or municipality by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official
minutes as by the recording of a plat.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
   DEVELOPED AREA. Land that has been substantially improved by making it more
useful to humans including the erection of buildings, structures, landscaping
or increasing its value by cultivation.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing a lot or group of lots or
structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A scale drawing, including a legal or site description, of
the real estate involved which shows the location and size of the following,
both existing and proposed: all buildings, structures, and yards; topographic
map; location and dimension of building lines and easements; widths and lengths
of all entrances and exits to and from said real estate; location of all
adjacent or adjoining streets, service facilities; and other improvements such
as planting areas.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN, DETAILED. The construction drawings incorporating all
amendments and plans adopted at the preliminary development plan hearing that
sets the stage for approval of the secondary plat(s) as evidenced in a
development plan.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN, PRELIMINARY. The initial development plans as proposed for
a planned unit development following approval by the Plan Commission and
adoption by the Common Council of said drawings and planned unit development
(PUD) ordinance including any waivers and commitments by the developer for said
real property.
   DISTRICT (ZONING). A specific district within the jurisdiction which has
uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size, and intensity of use
of buildings and land, and open spaces.
   DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including single-family, two-family, and multi-family;
however, excluding hotels, motels, and boarding houses.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building consisting of three or more dwelling
units, including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances and party
walls.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A building consisting of two or more
dwelling units, each that occupies a separate platted lot.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A building consisting of a single dwelling
unit only and separated from other dwelling units by open space. Single-family
dwellings shall include modular homes and may include mobile homes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units which may
be attached either side-by-side or one above the other, and each unit having a
separate or combined entrance or entrances. Includes condominiums.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group or rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and including provisions for
living, sleeping, cooking, and sanitary facilities. The term shall include
manufactured and mobile homes but shall not include recreational vehicles.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons for specified purposes.
   EROSION. The removal of surface materials by the action of natural elements.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other similar
material is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved to a new
location above and natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped
surface and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom. The difference in
elevation between a point on the original ground and a designated point in
higher elevation on the final grade. The material used to make a FILL.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of a flood hazard area lying outside the
floodway district.
   FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. That portion of floor area constructed, completed and
usable for living purposes with normal living facilities that includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, sanitary, or combination thereof. A floor area or
portion thereof that remains unfinished and used only for storage purposes and
not equipped with the facilities previously identified is not considered
finished floor area.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of all horizontal surface areas of all floors of
all roofed portions of a building enclosed by and within the surrounding
exterior walls or roofs, or to the center line of any party wall separating
such buildings or portions thereof. Floor area of a building shall exclude
exterior unenclosed balconies and/or porches.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FRONTAGE. Property connected directly with a street or highway. For the
purpose of determining frontage, an alley is not considered to be a street or
highway.
   GROUND FLOOR. That story that contains finished floor area closest to, but
not below, grade level. In cases in which the only story with finished floor
area is below grade level, that story with finished floor area closest to grade
level is considered the ground floor.
   HARDSHIP. The exceptional burden that would result from failure to grant a
requested variance, which may be caused by atypical, unusual, and peculiar
factors or features of the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is not enough to claim a hardship. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one’s neighbors likewise cannot qualify as a hardship. A problem that may be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, does not constitute a hardship. Hardship also
does not result from an inability to use a parcel exactly as intended by the
property owner as long as there remains a viable use of the property.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the average finished
grade to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of
mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.
   HEIGHT, SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign to the finished grade of the ground or a constructed berm immediately
beneath the sign.
   HEIGHT, STRUCTURE. The vertical distance measured from the average ground
elevation to the highest point of the structure.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that does not allow water to be absorbed or
percolate into the ground. Such surfaces include areas covered by buildings,
porches, decks, patios, swimming pools, tennis courts and also includes
surfaces constructed of asphalt, concrete, gravel composite, brick, stone,
tile, or any other paving material used for parking, driveways, and walkways.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT (ILP). A permit issued by the Department
permitting a person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure
as a part of a building permit and/or the alteration of the condition of land,
change of use or occupancy, or any change that is subject to the provisions of
this chapter not governed by other requirements.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The fixed public works and facilities necessary in a
community, such as sewers, water systems, and streets.
   INSTITUTIONAL. Public and quasi-public land uses which enhance the
community's quality of life, such as schools, churches, libraries, or
hospitals, but not including such uses as utility plants or garages.
   LOT. A parcel of land located within a single block and may be either a lot
of record or a zoning lot. In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part
thereof shall be included that is within the limits of a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees. A lot abutting a
curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if tangent
projections of the front lot lines drawn perpendicular at the side lot lines
meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees in from of the lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots, abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   LOT AREA. The area of any lot exclusive of street, highway, alley, road, or
other rights-of-way, the area of the horizontal plane of the lot bounded by the
vertical plans of the front, side, and rear lot lines. Easements are considered
to be part of the LOT AREA.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area within the lot or project covered by the
primary structure, accessory structure(s), and impervious surfaces (e.g.,
driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, patios, swimming pools, garages, carports,
storage sheds, and the like).
   LOT FRONTAGE. The total length of the front lot line bordering upon a public
or private right-of-way or easement.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. On an interior lot, the line separating the lot from the
street. On a corner or through lot, the line separating the lot from either
street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line. A corner lot does
not have a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front lot line or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or a lot or a parcel
described by metes and bounds, legally defined and duly recorded in the office
of the County Recorder.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the front building setback line.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A description of land prepared by a state-registered land
surveyor providing measured distances and courses from known or established
points on the surface of the earth.
   MINOR CHANGE (as applies to planned unit developments). An amendment that
does not alter the intent, objectives, conditions, stipulations, waivers, or
findings of the approved plan and does not significantly differ from the plan/
ordinance adopted. Minor amendments may include (1) alteration of plant
materials or type; (2) locations and/or specifications of lighting; (3)
additions of emergency generators that have limited impact both visually and
acoustically to the surrounding properties; (4) addition of electric vehicle
charging stations or bike-share facilities; (5) modifications to the appearance
of entrance/subdivisions signs; (6) changes to lot arrangement but not lot
size; (7) reduction of parking spaces by less than 5% of what is required by
the ordinance provided it does not increase intensity or fall below the minimum
parking requirements of the ordinance; (8) minor modifications to drainage
management structures; (9) modifications in access to the development site
where such change is a reduction in intensity in the traffic patterns of the
roadway; (10) addition of or modifications to fencing; and/or (11) modification
of trails/sidewalks but not the elimination of such and any modification that
is determined by the Planning Administrator meeting this definition.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of stone, concrete, galvanized iron
pipe, or iron or steel rods, used to identify the boundary lines of any tract,
parcel, lot, or street lines.
   NATIVE PRAIRIE GRASSES. A mixture of perennial grasses that historically
populated the prairie ecosystem of the United States that contain no trees.
Prairie grasses may vary by region.
   NATURAL AREAS. Any critical area such as floodplains, wetlands, high tree
concentrations, critical habitats that contain rare, threatened or endangered
species, wooded slopes, wooded or partially wooded streams, woodlands, and
riparian areas.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Drainage channels, routes, and ways formed over time in
the surface topography of the earth prior to any modifications or improvements
made by unnatural causes and/or human intervention.
   NATURAL FEATURES. The physical characteristics of a property or area that
are not man-made, such as soil types, geology, slopes, vegetation, and drainage
patterns.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commences
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT, USE OR STRUCTURE. Any lot, use, or structure legally
existing as of the effective date of this chapter, that is not in compliance
with this chapter or any subsequent amendments.
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING. A legal document announcing the opportunity for
the public to present their views to an official representative, board, and/or
commission of a public agency concerning an official action pending before the
agency.
   OPEN SPACE. Common area providing light and air designed for environmental,
scenic, or recreational purposes. Cropland, forested areas, or pastureland
qualifies as open space. Open space may include turf areas, decorative
plantings, walkways, active and passive recreation areas, playgrounds, and
wooded areas. Open space does not include areas devoted to public or private
streets or rights-of-way.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. An area appropriate in size to accommodate the required
parking for the applicable land use(s), together with driveways and maneuvering
room; located totally out of public right-of-way; and set back from such right-
of-way as required within this chapter.
   PARKING, ON-STREET. An area appropriate in size to accommodate the parking
located within public right-of-way.
   PARKING, REQUIRED. The number of parking spaces required for a particular
use or uses as required within this chapter.
   PARKING SPACE. An enclosed or un-enclosed surfaced area permanently reserved
for the temporary storage of one passenger motor vehicle and appropriately part
of a street or connected with a street or alley by a surfaced driveway
affording adequate ingress and egress.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or any other group that acts as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A large and integrated development
consisting of a parcel or parcels of land to be developed as a single entity
according to the adopted preliminary development plans and approved detailed
plans, with different use and development standards than the standards that
would normally apply in a non-PUD zoning district.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. A zoning district for which a PUD
District ordinance must be adopted under the regulations of this chapter.
   PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR. A person (or persons) appointed by the Plan
Commission, hired or contracted, to perform the duties prescribed by the Plan
Commission.
   PLAT. The drawing, map, or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land or a
replat of such including certifications, descriptions, and approvals. The final
map or drawing, described in these regulations, on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented to the Plan Commission for approval and which, if
approved, may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   PLAT, PRIMARY. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Plan Commission for approval.
   PLAT, SECONDARY. The final and formal presentation of the map, plan, or
record of a subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in the
regulations of this code.
   PRIVATE STREET. A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street
except that it is not dedicated to the public use. A driveway which is located
on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not considered as a
PRIVATE STREET.
   PUBLIC ACCESS AREA. A public place that is generally an outdoor area,
whether publicly or privately owned, to which the pubic have access by right or
by invitation, expressed or implied, whether by payment of money or not, but
not a place when used exclusively by one or more individuals for a private
gathering or other personal purpose. A social space that is open and accessible
to people.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES PLAN. The part of the comprehensive plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which shows the location of proposed fire and police station sites,
existing and proposed schools, parks, or recreation facilities.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, fire and police stations, libraries,
museums, zoological gardens and parks, city and town halls, county courthouses,
utility complexes, fairgrounds, and administrative and cultural buildings and
structures, but not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to furnish
electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, water, or sewerage systems to
the public under public regulation.
   REZONING. An amendment to a zoning map and/or text of a zoning ordinance.
   REZONING, MAP AMENDMENT. An amendment to a zoning map that creates a new
zoning district or changes the boundaries of an existing zoning district.
   REZONING, TEXT AMENDMENT. An amendment to the ordinance that creates a new
zoning district, adds to and/or changes the requirements of an existing zoning
district, or changes other ordinance regulations.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities, or other special public uses.
Rights-of-way intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between the front property lines on the
properties adjacent to the right-of-way as measured at right angles to the
centerline of the right-of-way.
   RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs
off the surface of the land.
   RUNOFF FROM A FULLY DEVELOPED AREA UPSTREAM. The surface water runoff that
can be reasonably anticipated upon maximum development of that area of the
watershed located upstream from the subject tract, as permitted by prevailing
zoning or the comprehensive land use plan.
   RURAL AREAS. The unincorporated areas of the county.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by moving wind, water or gravity.
   SETBACK, REQUIRED. The minimum and/or maximum required distance between a
property line and a setback line, as established by this chapter.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by this chapter defining the limits of a
yard in which no building or structure may be located except as may be exempted
in said ordinance.
   SHRUB. A woody plant of relatively low height having several stems arising
from the base and lacking a single trunk.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the road right-of-way which is improved for the
use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to, or painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building
or other outdoor structure or parcel of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, business, person, service, or interest.
   SITE. A parcel or adjoining parcels under single ownership or single
control, considered as a unit for the purpose of development or other use.
   SITE PLAN. A drawing of the site, drawn accurately to an engineering scale,
showing existing and proposed features of the site including but not limited to
buildings and other structures both existing and proposed; setbacks from all
buildings/structures to the property lines; location and dimensions of all
building lines and easements; widths and lengths of all entrances and exits to
and from said property  (driveways); location of all adjacent and adjoining
streets, service facilities, manholes, ponds, drainage swales, grading and all
other improvements sufficient for the review as required by this chapter. The
lot number and subdivision and/or legal description, address of site, property
owner’s name and contact information, and contractor’s name and contact
information shall be included.
   SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   SOIL STABILIZATION. Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
   STREET. A right-of-way established for or dedicated to the public use, which
affords the principal means of access to abutting properties. A STREET may be
designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane,
drive, or other appropriate name.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A system of streets and roads which form an integrated
network of continuous routes primarily for through traffic. The “arterial”
system is stratified into “major” and “minor” categories.
   STREET, ARTERIAL, MAJOR. Serves corridor traffic movements having trip
length and travel density characteristics indicative of substantial statewide
or interstate travel, or connects major population centers in rural areas or
serves major centers of activity and highest traffic volume corridors with the
longest trip desires in urban areas.
   STREET, ARTERIAL, MINOR. Links other cities, town, and traffic generators,
and provides a substantial amount of interstate and inter-county service in
rural areas; or interconnects and augments with the principal arterials to
provide service to trips of moderate length for intra-community continuity in
urban areas.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A system of streets and roads which generally serve
travel of primarily intra-area and intra-county importance with approximately
equal emphasis to traffic circulation and land access service. The “collector”
system is generally further stratified into “major” and “minor” categories. The
system collects and distributes traffic between arterial and local systems.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short local street having one end open to traffic and
being permanently terminated by a vehicle-turnaround at the other end.
   STREET, HIGHWAY. A term applied to streets and roads that are usually under
the jurisdiction of the Indiana State Highway Commission.
   STREET, LOCAL. A system of streets and roads, which primarily provides local
access service between fronting properties and higher order street systems.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT. The construction of a street or alley to its
full thickness, commencing at the subgrade to the specifications hereinafter
established. The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed
surface street or alley shall not be considered as an improvement, but as
maintenance.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground or
requires location under the ground. Among other things, structures include
buildings, walls, fences, signs, gas or liquid storage tank, mobile homes, and
accessory structures under 200 square feet that do not require a permanent
foundation. A structure is not a building except as further defined by that
term.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure that is located on the same parcel of
property as the principal building and the use of which is incidental and
subordinate to the use of the principal building. Accessory structures should
be designed to have a minimal impact on adjoining properties and may not be
used for human habitation. Examples of accessory structure include, but are not
limited to, detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, hay sheds,
and lean-tos. For purposes of floodplain regulation, accessory structures shall
have a floor area of 400 square feet or less.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land
which complies with the definition of a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit on the last
preceding transfer of ownership thereof into two or more lots, tracts, or
parcels.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into
five or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two
to four lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land that meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   Has all lots fronting an existing street(s);
      (2)   Does not involve the construction of a new street(s), realignment,
or the extension of an existing street;
      (3)   Does not involve the dedication of additional right-of-way;
      (4)   Does not necessitate the extension of any municipal infrastructure
or the creation of any public improvements; and
      (5)   Does not create non-conformity of lot and/or structures.
   SWALE. A low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE. A committee established to assist in the
evaluation of development applications and to make advisory recommendations to
the applicable reviewing authority. The membership of the Committee shall
include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged in either private or
public work with specific knowledge in road design and construction; sewer and
water facility design and construction; solid waste; health requirements for
water and sewer facilities; recreation and open space; environmental planning
criteria related to geology, vegetation, noise, and water systems; and urban
design.
   THOROUGHFARE. The same as STREET.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the comprehensive plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the
location, alignment, dimensions, identification, and classification of existing
and proposed streets, highways, and other thoroughfares.
   TOPSOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil materials, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris.
TOPSOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the “A horizon”.
   TREE. A perennial woody plant with one main trunk and a rather distinct and
elevated head, ordinarily growing to definite heights and usually developing
branches at some distance from the ground.
   TREE, CANOPY. A tree with mature height over 35 feet and with a canopy that
screens the sun and provides shade.
   TREE, EVERGREEN. A tree with foliage that remains green for most part of the
year.
   TREE, ORNAMENTAL. Typically a small tree (may be an understory tree) that is
grown for decorative purpose with multi-season interest.
   TREE, STREET. Trees growing on public right-of-way except for alleys and for
medians contained within subdivisions.
   TREE, UNDERSTORY. A tree with mature height between 12 and 35 feet and with
a canopy that screens the sun and provides shade.
   TRUNK. The portion of a stem or stems of a tree before branching occurs.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land, a building, or a structure is
designated, arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied, leased
or maintained
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to another use located on the same
property which does not change or alter the character of the premises and is
clearly and customarily incidental to the primary use.
   USE, LEGAL-NONCONFORMING. Any continuous, lawful use of structures, land, or
structures and land in combination, established prior to the effective date of
this code or its subsequent amendments that is no longer a permitted use in the
zoning district where it is located.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use which does not conform to the use regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located.
   USE, PRIMARY. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use. It may be a permitted use, conditional use, or a special
exception.
   USE, PROHIBITED. A use indicated as prohibited for a certain zoning
district.
   UTILITY, PUBLIC. Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to furnish
under public regulations to the public electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
fiber optics, transportation, water, or sewage systems.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of
this chapter where such modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, serious practical difficulties.
   VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. A specific approval granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals deviating from the development standards (such as height,
setbacks, lot area, and the like) that are prescribed within this chapter.
   VARIANCE, USE. An approval of use granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
permitting a use other than that prescribed in this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The erection, alteration, enlargement, maintenance or use of any
land, building, or structure in violation of this chapter, Building Codes and
related codes, weed ordinance or other codes and ordinances of the town
applicable to said land, building, or structure in the zoning district in which
it is located.
   WAIVER. A specific modification or lessening of the regulations of this
chapter granted by the Plan  Commission and Town Council for a specific
development such as a planned unit development in response to unique site
characteristics or development patterns that justify relief from the otherwise
applicable regulations or by the Plan Commission for relief from the
subdivision control standards.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature, natural or human-made, on or over which waters flow at
least periodically. WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which
substantial flood damage may occur.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front property line to the front setback line. On corner lots and through lots,
there shall be two front yards as determined by  the road frontages.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the rear
setback line and the rear  property line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side setback line and side property line and
extending from the front setback line to the rear setback line.
   ZONING. A police power measure, enacted by the governing body of local
governments, in which the community is divided into districts or zones within
which permitted and special uses are established as regulations governing lot
size, building bulk, placement, and other development standards.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A specific district within the jurisdiction which has
uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size, and intensity of use
of buildings and land, and open spaces.
   ZONING DISTRICT, BASE. In the case of an overlay district, the standard
zoning district in which the parcel or tract is located, and the standards of
which apply when the overlay district regulations are silent on any given
point.
   ZONING DISTRICT, OVERLAY. That zoning district that is superimposed on a
base zoning district, which adds additional regulations regarding the use of
and development standards for the property.
   ZONING MAP. The Official Town of Thorntown Zoning Map.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Those chapters of Thorntown Code of Ordinances, now or
hereafter adopted, that include the official zoning map, regulations,
requirements and procedures for the establishment of land use controls.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
ZONING APPLICATION PROCEDURES
§ 152.10 GENERAL APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicability. The following requirements are common in most zoning
application procedures and apply to applications submitted under this chapter.
   (B)   Application forms.
      (1)   Application forms shall be obtained from the Planning
Administrator.
      (2)   Application forms shall be filled out completely and legibly.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit the number of filled out application
forms as required by this chapter under the subchapters of each specific
application type.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Ownership. The applicant must:
         (a)   Own a controlling interest in each parcel within the area of the
proposed application; or
         (b)   Have notarized documentation authorizing the applicant to act as
the agent of the owner(s) of all parcels within the area of the application.
      (2)   Supportive information. The application shall include, but not be
limited to, the following documents:
         (a)   All documentation specified on the application packet and in
this chapter unless certain documentation is deemed superfluous by the Planning
Administrator due to the specific circumstances of the project.
         (b)   Any other additional information as may be required by the
Planning Administrator or TAC members to evaluate the application.
      (3)   Fees. Fees shall be paid in accordance with the schedule of fines
and fees, as set forth in §
10.25. No permit shall be granted by the Planning Administrator or Building
Inspector until all applicable fees pertaining to that permit have been paid in
full. No permit shall be granted by the Planning Administrator or Building
Inspector until all fees and fines owed by the applicant to the town have been
paid in full. This requirement shall apply not only to the fees and fines
specific to the individual application, but shall also include all fees and
fines owed on any permit previously issued to the applicant.
   (D)   Application process, generally.
      (1)   Prerequisites. For those projects that require Board, Commission,
and/or Council review, project approval shall have been granted prior to
application being made for subsequent permits (e.g., approval of a primary plat
before an improvement location permit application is submitted).
      (2)   Pre-filing meeting. Prior to applying, the petitioner shall meet
with the Planning Administrator to review the zoning classification of the
site, review the regulatory ordinances and materials, and review the
procedures. The Planning Administrator will assist and advise the petitioner in
preparing the application and supportive documents as necessary.
      (3)   Filing deadlines. An application requiring a public hearing or
meeting will not be scheduled for such hearing or meeting unless filed, in
proper form and number and containing all required information, according to
the following schedule:
         (a)   Technical Advisory Committee (TAC): submit application and all
required information and payment at least 20 days prior to TAC meeting.
         (b)   Plan Commission (PC): submit application and all required
information and payment at least 50 days prior to PC meeting.
         (c)   Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA): submit application and all
required information and payment at least 30 days prior to BZA meeting.
      (4)   Investigation of petitions.
         (a)   Any application in this chapter may be reviewed by the TAC as
required or per request of the Board, Commission and/or Council.
         (b)   For applications requiring approval by the Board, Commission,
and/or Council, the Planning Administrator may submit a written report to the
appropriate decision-making body stating any facts concerning the
characteristics, land use, public facilities available, or other pertinent
facts of the application. The report may also contain a report from members of
the TAC (if applicable). A copy of such statement shall be made available to
the petitioner and all remonstrators of record, if any.
      (5)   Revisions. Following review by the Planning Administrator and/or
the Technical Advisory Committee, the petitioner shall submit revised materials
and documents that address the comments and concerns. The petitioner shall
refer to the specific application packet to determine the format and number of
copies to be delivered to the Planning Administrator.
      (6)   Expiration. If a petitioner fails to provide comments, revisions or
contact within a six-month time period, and the Planning Administrator has
attempted to contact the petitioner, the application will be considered null
and void.
   (E)   Public meetings. Applications requiring public meetings shall be filed
in accordance with the time established in this chapter for each individual
type of application, subject to the rules of procedure of the applicable
hearing body.
   (F)   Public hearing notice.
      (1)   Hearings on all applications pending before the Board of Zoning
Appeals or Plan Commission.
         (a)   Notice of public hearing to parties of interest.
            1.   After the application is filed, the applicant shall obtain a
list of names and last known addresses of the property owners of property
adjacent to the subject property to a depth of two properties or 660 feet,
whichever is less, of the subject tract(s). This list shall be obtained from
the Boone County Auditor’s Office. Then, the applicant shall submit this list
to the Planning Administrator or his or her designee before the public hearing.
            2.   The applicant shall give due notice to these owners as
identified herein, concerning the place, date, and time for the first public
hearing of the petition utilizing the notification letter prepared by the
Planning Administrator, mailed as a certificate of mailing and date stamped by
Post Office personnel not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to the
public hearing date.
            3.   The certificate of mailing receipts of said notification
letters shall be submitted to the Planning Administrator or his or her designee
prior to the public hearing.
         (b)   Notice of public hearing in newspaper.
            1.   The Planning Administrator shall prepare the notice and
arrange for the publication of a public notice to be placed in a newspaper of
general circulation in the town jurisdictional area.
            2.   The notice shall run at least one time in the paper not less
than 15 days before noted public hearing.
            3.   The applicant shall be responsible for the cost of publishing
the notice and will be billed according to the policies of the applicable
newspaper.
            4.   The applicant shall also file with the Planning Administrator
of the proof of publication prior to the public hearing.
      (2)   Content of notice. All notices shall include the date, time and
place of such hearing or meeting, description of the matter to be heard or
considered, the address or particular location of the subject property, and a
legal description of the subject property.
      (3)   Referral of applications. The Planning Administrator shall refer
every application for which this chapter requires a hearing before the Plan
Commission, the Board Zoning of Appeals or the Town Council to all appropriate
town commissions and departments. Each commission and department to which an
application is referred shall review such application and submit its comments
thereon to the Planning Administrator for transmittal to the specific body
hearing the application. Such comments shall, whenever possible, be submitted
at least 14 business days prior to the date set for the hearing and shall be
made available to any person on request prior to the hearing.
      (4)   Conduct of hearings. All other matters pertaining to the conduct of
hearings shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter pertaining to, and
the rules of procedures adopted by, the official or body conducting the
hearing.
      (5)   Examination and copying of application and other documents. At any
time following the giving of notice as required in this chapter, and upon
reasonable request, any person may examine the application and, subject to the
exceptions set forth in the Indiana Access to Public Records Act, all other
documents on file pertaining to the application. In addition, any person shall
be entitled to copies of such application and documents upon reasonable request
and payment of a fee as established from time to time by the Council to cover
the cost of such copies.
   (G)   Final records. The Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain final records of all
applications, plans, and permits filed and required by state law.
   (H)   Inspection. The town may inspect any land, structure or other
improvement at any reasonable time to ensure compliance with any permit or
application in this chapter.
   (I)   Summary of review authority. The following table summarizes the review
and approval authority of the various types of applications.
Application Type            Staff TAC Commission Council BZA Public Hearing
Rezone (map)                R     R*  R          D       -   Y
Text amendment              R     R*  R          D       -   Y
Subdivision (platting)
Major                       R     R   D          -       -   Y
Minor                       R     D              -       -   N
PUD                         R     R   R          D       -   Y
Development plan            R     R   D          -       -   Y
Variance                    R     R*  -          -       D   Y
Administrative appeal       R     R*  -          -       D   Y
Improvement location permit D     R*  -          -       -   N
Key: R - Review; R* - Plan Commission may require review by TAC or BZA; D -
Decision; Y - Yes, N - No
 
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.11 AMENDMENT (REZONE AND/OR TEXT AMENDMENT).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards and
procedures for making amendments to the text of this chapter and the zoning
map. This amendment process is not intended to relieve particular hardships nor
to confer special privileges or rights upon any person, but only to make
adjustments necessary in light of changed conditions or changes in public
policy. Further, the intent of this section is to ensure that the statutory
requirements established in the Indiana Code for the amending of chapter text
and zoning map are met.
   (B)   Authority. The text of this chapter and the zoning map may be amended
from time to time by the passage of an ordinance duly adopted by the Town
Council in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   (C)   Parties entitled to initiate amendments.
      (1)   Amendment to text. Amendments to this chapter may be initiated by
adoption of a motion of the Plan Commission or by adoption of a resolution by
the Town Council.
      (2)   Amendment to zoning map. Amendments to this chapter may be
initiated by adoption of a motion of the Plan Commission; by adoption of a
resolution by Town Council; or by the filing of a petition by at least 50% of
the owners of property within the area proposed to be changed or affected by
said amendment.
   (D)   Standards for amendments. The wisdom of amending the text of this
chapter or the zoning map is a matter committed to the sound legislative
discretion of the Town Council and is not controlled by any one standard. In
making their determination, however, the Town Council should, in determining
whether to adopt or deny, or to adopt some modification of the Plan
Commission’s recommendation, pay reasonable regard to the following:
      (1)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals,
objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan, as adopted and amended from
time to time by the Town Council;
      (2)   Whether the proposed amendment is compatible with current
conditions and the overall character of existing development in the immediate
vicinity of the subject property;
      (3)   Whether the proposed amendment is the most desirable use for which
the land in the subject property is adapted;
      (4)   Whether the proposed amendment will have an adverse effect on the
value of properties throughout the jurisdiction; and
      (5)   Whether the proposed amendment reflects responsible standards for
development and growth.
   (E)   Procedure for review and decision. A petition to amend the text of
this chapter or the zoning map shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures set forth below:
      (1)   Application and fees. The applicant shall follow the application
and fee payment requirements prescribed in §
152.10.
      (2)   Public hearing and notice. After receipt of a properly completed
application for an amendment, the Planning Administrator shall fix a date for a
public hearing within 30 days of receiving the full application packet. Notice
of the public hearing shall be provided as prescribed in §
152.10(F) of this chapter.
      (3)   Plan Commission action. Within 60 days after receipt of the
proposed amendment, the Plan Commission shall recommend the approval or denial
of the proposed amendment, or the approval of the amendment with modifications,
and shall then submit its written recommendation, together with the petition
for the text and/or map change, to the Town Council.
      (4)   Town Council action.
         (a)   The Town Council shall approve, deny, continue or send a
proposed amendment back to the Commission for modifications. If the Council
returns a proposal to the Commission, the Commission shall consider the
rejection or amendment, and shall vote on the proposal within 45 days in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-607.
         (b)   Failure of the legislative body to pass the proposed amendment
within 90 days after its rejection by the Plan Commission constitutes rejection
of the proposed amendment; and the proposed amendment may not be reconsidered
by the Plan Commission or legislative body until the expiration of one year
after the date of its original rejection by the Plan Commission.
      (5)   Effective date. Such amendment adopted by Town Council shall become
effective immediately upon adoption and approval by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.12 SUBDIVISION (PLATTING).
   (A)   Applicability. The subdivision procedure described in this section
shall be required for the subdivision (platting) or resubdivision (replatting)
of any tract of land and/or the dedication of right-of-way within the planning
jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Procedure summary.
      (1)   Minor subdivision. A minor subdivision plat shall be submitted to
and reviewed by the Planning Administrator and reviewed and approved by the
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). It shall be prepared on Mylar and signed by
the President and Secretary of the Plan Commission and recorded in the Boone
County Recorder’s Office. The notification and certification requirements of
I.C. 36-7-4-701(d) shall be followed.
      (2)   Major subdivision - primary plat. A primary plat shall be submitted
to and reviewed by the Planning Administrator, reviewed by the Technical
Advisory Committee, and reviewed and approved by the Plan Commission in a
public hearing.
      (3)   Major subdivision - secondary plat/replat. A secondary plat or a
replat of a subdivision shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Planning
Administrator, reviewed and approved by the Technical Advisory Committee, and
signed by the President and Secretary of the Plan Commission and recorded in
the Boone County Recorder’s Office.
      (4)   Plat amendment. For any change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on such map,
or area reserved thereon for public use, or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling the
subdivision, such change shall be approved by the Plan Commission by the same
procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
      (5)   Future street opening. Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and
the subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of
land and there are indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided,
the Plan Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for the future
opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. As a
requirement of the plat, dedications of rights-of-way shall be provided for the
future opening and extension of such streets.
   (C)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Pre-filing meeting. The applicant shall request a pre-filing
meeting with the Planning Administrator for an informal discussion of the
proposed application and of the application requirements. This will enable the
subdivider to become familiar with these and other regulations as they affect
the area and will prevent unnecessary and costly revisions. The subdivider
should present a sketch showing in a general way the proposed development and
the existing conditions within the area proposed for subdivision and of
surrounding lands. This shall not require formal application, fee, or filing of
a preliminary plat, nor shall it be deemed a preliminary plat.
      (2)   Application and fees.
         (a)   The applicant shall follow the application and fee payment
requirements prescribed in §
152.10.
         (b)   In addition to submitting a written application, the applicant
shall submit an electronic (portable digital format, PDF) copy of a preliminary
plat and development plans and two physical copies of the same plans in
accordance with divisions (D) through (G) in this section to the Planning
Administrator at least 50 days before the meeting at which the Plan Commission
is expected to consider such application.
         (c)   The Planning Administrator shall forward one copy to each member
of TAC.
         (d)   The TAC members shall forward any comments or recommendations
concerning such plat to the Planning Administrator prior to the date of the
meeting at which the Plan Commission is expected to consider such application
for preliminary plat approval.
      (3)   The application shall show the manner in which the proposed
subdivision is coordinated with the comprehensive plan and its provisions,
specifically, with relation to the requirements of the official thoroughfare
plan, school and recreation sites, shopping centers, community facilities,
sanitation, water supply and drainage, and other developments existing and
proposed in the vicinity.
      (4)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use unless adequate
access to the land over approved streets or thoroughfares exists or will be
provided by the subdivider, or if such land is considered by the Plan
Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or improper
drainage, objectionable earth and rock formations, topography, or any other
feature harmful to the health and safety of potential residents and the
community as a whole.
      (5)   No land shall be subdivided unless the intended use of the
individual lot is in conformance with this chapter, now or hereafter adopted.
      (6)   At the time of filing an application for approval of the
preliminary plat, the application shall be accompanied by an application fee as
set from time to time by the Council. The Planning Administrator shall
surrender the application fee to the Clerk/Treasurer. The application fee shall
be nonrefundable.
      (7)   If the Planning Administrator is satisfied that the standards of
this section have been met, the Planning Administrator shall set a date for a
hearing before the Plan Commission, giving written notice to the applicant of
such hearing.
      (8)   Notice of public hearing. The applicant shall follow public hearing
notice procedures set forth in §
152.10(F) of this chapter.
   (D)   Preliminary plat requirements. The preliminary plat shall be prepared
in accordance with this section.
      (1)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except
that when the drawing at the scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may
be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches
by 36 inches in size.
      (2)   The plat shall include a location map showing the following:
         (a)   Location of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Existing subdivisions and parcels of land adjacent to the
proposed subdivision;
         (c)   Existing schools, parks, playgrounds, or other similar
facilities that will serve the proposed subdivision;
         (d)   All public thoroughfares up to and including primary
thoroughfares established by this chapter, that will serve the proposed
subdivision; and
         (e)   The location of any streets and alleys in the proposed
subdivision showing the relationship of the streets to any existing or proposed
streets in contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property to produce the most
advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
      (3)   The plat shall show the following:
         (a)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and consulting
engineer, land surveyor, or planning firm who prepared the plan;
         (c)   Legend and notes including the scale, north point, and date;
         (d)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners;
         (e)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision;
         (f)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within or
contiguous to the tract;
         (g)   Topographic contours at vertical intervals of one foot if the
general slope of the tract is less than 5%, or intervals of two feet if the
slope is in excess of 5%. Such contours shall be references to mean sea level
elevations;
         (h)   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers;
         (i)   Building setback lines showing dimensions throughout the
subdivision;
         (j)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community
purposes;
         (k)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision, showing the names, roadway widths, approximate gradients,
types and widths of pavements, curbs, and sidewalks;
         (l)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width,
and purpose of such easements;
         (m)   Location, size, and capacity of any public sewer and/or water
facilities, if such facilities are available;
         (n)   Ground water levels stated in inches below ground surface and
given at points of lowest ground elevation on the tract;
         (o)   A description of the surface drainage system to an approved
outlet, including data showing that such outlet is adequate to accommodate the
drainage requirements of the finished subdivision. Arrows designating the
general drainage of all streets and lots shall be included; and
         (p)   If the preliminary plat is to be divided into sections or phases
of development, the boundaries and numbers of such sections shall be shown.
   (E)   Preliminary plat approval.
      (1)   Within 60 days of the public hearing concerning an application for
a certificate of approval of a subdivision plat, the Plan Commission shall
notify the applicant in writing stating whether the preliminary plat is
approved or disapproved.
      (2)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Such approval is strictly tentative, involving merely the
general acceptability of the submitted layout;
         (b)   The Plan Commission may introduce such changes or revisions as
are deemed necessary to the best interest and general welfare of the community;
and
         (c)   Approval shall be effective for a maximum period of two years
unless, upon application of the applicant, the Plan Commission grants an
extension. The Plan Commission may extend approval of a preliminary plat for a
maximum of four years without further notice, public hearing, or fees.
      (3)   Disapproval of a preliminary plat shall be subject to the
following:
         (a)   If the Plan Commission disapproves a preliminary plat
application, the Plan Commission shall notify the applicant in writing, stating
the specific reasons for disapproval;
         (b)   The original applicant may submit a new application for
preliminary approval within six months without responsibility for additional
application fees; and
         (c)   If no reapplication is submitted within six months of the date
of disapproval, any subsequent application shall be submitted as a new
application.
   (F)   Secondary plat requirements.
      (1)   After approval of the preliminary plat by the Plan Commission and
fulfillment of the requirements of this section, blackline or blueline
reproductions of the secondary plat of the subdivision shall be submitted to
the Plan Commission along with one reproducible transparency (i.e., Mylar) and
a digital copy (portable digital format, PDF). All plats shall be drawn at the
same scale as the preliminary plat and shall be drawn on a sheet 18 inches by
24 inches in size. If the Plan Commission approves the secondary plat, it shall
place a certification thereof on the reproduced copies.
      (2)   Upon the final approval of the secondary plat, one copy of the
certified plat shall be forwarded to the following persons:
         (a)   County Surveyor;
         (b)   County Auditor;
         (c)   Any utility company that may be affected;
         (d)   Subdivider or applicant; and
         (e)   File of Plan Commission.
      (3)   The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the
preliminary plat which has received approval.
      (4)   The following information shall be shown on the secondary plat:
         (a)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 5,000 feet;
         (b)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official
monument. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plan;
         (c)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
         (d)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the tract boundary;
         (e)   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the County Recorder;
         (f)   Street names;
         (g)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plat;
         (h)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet with angles to street, alley, and lot lines;
         (i)   Lot numbers and dimensions;
         (j)   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and notations of
the purpose of easements;
         (k)   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved
for public, semi-public, or community use;
         (l)   Building lines and dimensions throughout the subdivision;
         (m)   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments;
         (n)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
section;
         (o)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
         (p)   Name of subdivision;
         (q)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
         (r)   North point, scale, and date;
         (s)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public
property;
         (t)   Certification by a registered land surveyor; and
         (u)   Certificate of approval by the Plan Commission.
   (G)   Secondary plat approval.
      (1)   Prior to the certification of a plat by the Plan Commission, the
subdivider shall provide a bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the town;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be
sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with
this section. The subdivider’s engineer shall supply an estimate of the cost of
improvements and installations on the project to aid the Plan Commission in its
determination of the amount of the bond. The engineer’s estimate, however,
shall not be binding upon the Plan Commission;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Plan Commission; and
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the improvements and installations required
of a subdivider for the approval of a final secondary plat, and prior to the
acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the governmental unit having
responsibility for such maintenance, the subdivider shall provide a three-year
maintenance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the town;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of such improvements
and installations as estimated by the Plan Commission under division (G)(1)(b)
above;
         (c)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Plan Commission;
         (d)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation, and completion of said improvements and
installations to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards, specifications, and
requirements of this section and the satisfactory plans and specifications for
the subdivision as approved by the Plan Commission; and
         (e)   Provide that for a period of three years after such
installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public
maintenance, by any appropriate governmental unit or agency thereof, which may
be necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials, with such
maintenance, however, not to include any damages to such improvements and
installation resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of the
subdivider.
      (3)   Within 60 days after application for approval of the secondary
plat, if the Plan Commission approves the plat, it shall affix its seal upon
the plat, together with the signatures of the Plan Commission members and
attested by the Town Clerk/Treasurer. If the Plan Commission disapproves, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall set forth the reasons for such disapproval in the
town records and provide the applicant with written notification setting forth
the reasons for disapproval.
      (4)   No improvement location permit or building permit shall be issued
for any structures on any subdivision lots prior to the recording of such
subdivision by the County Recorder.
      (5)   No structure shall be occupied on any subdivision lots prior to the
installation and completion of all facilities, including grading, as shown on
the development plans and approved by the Plan Commission; except that, in the
case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface cost may
be postponed until the end of the maintenance period.
      (6)   The streets shall be installed and paved per standards in this
chapter prior to acceptance of the road for public maintenance.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.13 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Required approvals. A PUD District requires the following approvals:
      (1)   Preliminary plan approval that includes a rezone ordinance, a
concept plan and preliminary architectural drawings (collectively, “PUD
District ordinance”).
      (2)   Subdivision approval.
      (3)   Detailed development plan approval.
   (B)   Application and fees. The applicant shall follow the application and
fee payment requirements prescribed in §
152.10.
   (C)   Application decision.
      (1)   An application for a PUD District ordinance shall be reviewed and
considered by the Plan
Administrator, Plan Commission and Council in accordance with §
152.11.
      (2)   An application for subdivision shall be reviewed in accordance with
§
152.12.
      (3)   An application for detailed development plan shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
152.15.
   (D)   Commitments. In conjunction with its recommendation to the Council
regarding a PUD District ordinance, the Plan Commission may recommend that the
Council permit or require the petitioner to make written commitments concerning
the use or development of the parcel.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. In conjunction with its recommendation to the
Council regarding a PUD District ordinance, the Plan Commission may recommend
that the Council impose conditions of approval concerning the use or
development of the parcel.
   (F)   Revisions. Following the Plan Commission review, the applicant shall
submit revised copies of the PUD District ordinance that address the comments
and concerns of the Plan Commission.
   (G)   Effect of approvals. A PUD District ordinance shall become effective
after its approval by the Council and shall be recorded by the town in the
Office of the Recorder of Boone County, Indiana. The zoning map shall be
amended accordingly. The use and development of the property shall thereafter
be governed by the PUD District ordinance, subject to review and approval of
subsequent permits and approvals as required by this chapter, and any other
regulatory processes which may be required prior to commencement of
construction within the PUD District.
   (H)   Duration. Failure to start construction for as it relates to a PUD
District ordinance within five years of its effective date (unless extended by
the Plan Commission) will automatically void the PUD ordinance, preliminary
architectural drawings and concept plan. The PUD District zoning will remain
valid; however, a rezone or text amendment will need to be approved to
establish a new PUD ordinance, preliminary architectural drawings and concept
plan before any permits or approvals are granted for the properties within the
PUD District. In the event construction work is involved, such work must
commence within the stated period and be diligently pursued.
   (I)   Extensions. Extension of time up to a maximum two years may be granted
from the date of expiration of the PUD District ordinance by the Plan
Commission when extenuating circumstances can be clearly shown by the
petitioner. The request for same shall be submitted to the Plan Commission in
writing prior to the expiration date and shall clearly state the reasons why
construction has not commenced. The Plan Commission may grant such additional
time extensions if there have not been adopted changes to comprehensive plan
and zoning regulations that would impact the PUD District ordinance.
   (J)   Development plan approval. Development plan approval, as set forth in
§
152.15, shall be required for all PUD Districts. Development plans shall
conform to the approved PUD District ordinance and this chapter for portion of
the PUD District ordinance which defaults to this chapter for any development
standard that is not modified as part of the PUD District ordinance.
   (K)   Permits. No permit of any kind shall be issued for any purpose within
a PUD District except in accordance with the approved development plan, and
after acceptance by the town of all required guarantees for improvements
pursuant to this chapter.
   (L)   PUD District ordinance requirements. PUD District ordinances and
supporting data shall include the following documentation. The Plan Commission,
in its sole discretion, may, in writing, waive or relax any of the requirements
listed which are not relevant or deemed unnecessary for a thorough review of
the development.
      (1)   PUD ordinance. The PUD District ordinance shall follow a standard
format adopted by the town for PUD District ordinances.
      (2)   Preliminary architectural drawings. As part of the approval of a
PUD District ordinance, the Plan Commission shall review and approve the
preliminary architectural drawings before the PUD ordinance is approved by the
Town Council. Approval of the preliminary architectural drawings shall
represent the architectural standards for the PUD District when the
construction plans are submitted for review and approval.
      (3)   Concept plan. The concept plan shall show in general terms the
following: major traffic circulation; generalized location of lots, location
and dimensions of buildings, structures, parking areas, and landscaping; open
space and/or community amenity areas; and other details to indicate the
character of the proposed development.
      (4)   Written statement of character. A written statement of character of
the PUD District shall provide an explanation of the character of the PUD
District and the reasons why it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations.
      (5)   Development amenities and open space. The PUD District ordinance
must include a statement of recreational amenities and open space. Such
statements shall designate and convey active and/or passive recreational areas
in accordance with § 152.27.A.(H)(4).
      (6)   Traffic impact study. A traffic impact study may be required to be
conducted at the discretion of the Plan Commission. If a traffic impact study
is required, then it shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer
and shall evaluate the impact of present and future traffic generated by the
proposed development on the adjacent roadway system. Prior to commencement, the
petitioner shall meet with the Plan Commission or its designees to determine
the appropriate scope for the study.
      (7)   Additional materials. The Plan Administrator shall inform the
applicant in writing of any additional information, documents or data deemed
necessary to support a thorough review of the proposed development.
   (M)   PUD District ordinance amendments. The procedure for amending an
approved PUD District ordinance (text amendment) shall be the same as the
procedure for the adoption of the initial PUD District ordinance as set forth
herein. The Commission or the Council shall have standing to initiate a change
or amend a PUD District ordinance. Changes that shall require an amendment to a
PUD District ordinance include changes which alter the concept plan,
preliminary architectural plans or intent of the initial PUD District, as
determined by the Plan Commission, which shall include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Increases in density or intensity.
      (2)   Changes in the proportion or allocation of land uses.
      (3)   Changes in the list of approved uses.
      (4)   Changes in the locations of uses outside of the parameters set
forth by the PUD District ordinance.
      (5)   Changes in functional uses of open space, where such change
constitutes an intensification of use of the open space.
      (6)   Changes in the concept plan such that it creates a conflict with
the intent of the PUD District ordinance established with the original concept
plan.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.14 VARIANCE.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.15 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Authority. Under the authority granted to Advisory Plan Commission in
I.C. 36-7-4-1400, development plans are required for the following
developments:
      (1)   Residential Zoning District: multi-family use.
      (2)   Business Zoning District: all uses.
      (3)   Planned Unit Development Zoning District: a detailed development
plan for the development as a whole.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards and
procedures for reviewing and approving development plans to ensure that
development in the planning jurisdiction of town is consistent with the
comprehensive plan, adheres to the zoning regulations of this chapter and other
applicable regulations and standards.
   (C)   Approving authority. The Plan Commission shall approve or deny the
development plans. The Planning Administrator may approve or deny minor
amendments to the development plans.
   (D)   Applicability. The Development Plan review process shall be necessary
prior to any: new construction; building additions; new or expanded surface
parking areas; new or expanded surface loading or outdoor storage areas; or any
other improvements that require an improvement location permit.
   (E)   Exception. Application for construction of a new one-family or two-
family dwelling shall not go through the development plan procedure in this
section, but instead shall go through the improvement location permit procedure
prescribed in §
152.16 and the building permit procedure prescribed in
Chapter 150. Alterations, additions, or demolitions of the structures at one-
family and two-family properties shall be reviewed through the building permit
procedure prescribed in
Chapter 150.
   (F)   Application, filing deadlines and fees. The applicant shall follow the
application, filing deadline and fee payment requirements prescribed in §
152.10. In addition to submitting a filled out application, the applicant shall
submit supporting information and plans described in this section.
   (G)   Submittal materials. All applications for development plan approval
must include the required plans, documentation and supporting information.
Other information for a thorough review of the project may be requested by the
Plan Commission or Administrator in writing. The Administrator in writing may
waive or relax any of the documentation required which is considered irrelevant
or unnecessary for a thorough review of the development.
      (1)   Development plan scope. A development plan must include details
applicable to the overall development, shared or common areas, shared
infrastructure, and other areas deemed appropriate by the Administrator or Plan
Commission to ensure a coordinated development.
      (2)   Site plan requirements. A development plan must include the
following, drawn to scale of 1" = 100' or less:
         (a)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date.
         (b)   Proposed name of the development.
         (c)   Address and legal description of the property.
         (d)   Property owner name.
         (e)   A vicinity map showing the general location of the site
referenced to streets and section lines, as well as the zoning district and use
of adjacent properties.
         (f)   Boundary lines of the property including all dimensions.
         (g)   Location, name, centerline and width of all streets, alleys,
driveways, access easements and transportation plan system improvements
(existing or proposed) located within or adjacent to the property.
         (h)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed sidewalks,
pathways, trails, or other transportation improvements.
         (i)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed curb cuts,
driveways and interior access drives, including connection to public streets.
         (j)   Off-street and on-street parking areas, loading areas, stacking
spaces and circulation patterns for vehicles, trucks, equipment and bicycles
showing dimensions; and tabulation of the number of off-street and on-street
parking, loading, and stacking spaces.
         (k)   Layout, number, dimension, and area (in square feet and acres)
of all lots and outlots with building setback lines.
         (l)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures
(including development amenities) and paved areas.
         (m)   Labeled use of each lot and/or building, including approximate
density or size of proposed uses and buildings (e.g., number of dwelling units,
gross floor area, number of seats in assembly areas, and the like).
         (n)   Location of all floodway, floodway fringe, and steep slope areas
within the boundaries of the property.
         (o)   Names of legal ditches, drains and streams on or adjacent to the
property.
         (p)   Location and feasibility statement of all existing and proposed
utility facilities and easements, including: sanitary sewer, water, storm water
management, electric, gas, telephone, and cable.
         (q)   Identification of buildings and/or structures proposed for
demolition.
         (r)   Areas of the property reserved for development amenities, open
space, and other similar uses.
         (s)   A stamp of a certified engineer who prepared the plans.
      (3)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan is required as part of any
development plan and should include the following details:
         (a)   Location of existing trees and landscaping materials, indicating
size, species (common and botanical name) and if they are to be kept or
removed.
         (b)   Location of open spaces and development amenities as well as
open space area in acres marked per each open space area.
         (c)   A table that summarizes the minimum required landscaped space
and number of plants.
         (d)   Location of all new plants.
         (e)   A table that lists the plant species (common and botanical
name), type (canopy tree, evergreen tree, shrub, native grass, and the like),
their quantity, and size at planting (tree height and caliper, shrub height,
and the like).
         (f)   Existing and proposed screens, walls, and fences, indicating
materials, height, and location.
      (4)   Building elevations. Drawings of proposed buildings must be filed
in connection with the submission of a development plan, drawn to scale, and
include the following:
         (a)   Black and white elevations for each building facade (360
degree). The elevations shall include the following measurements: building
height; wall height per floor; ceiling height; window and door sizes; height,
location and materials of foundation.
         (b)   A separate true color rendering, or other realistic depiction,
of the proposed building, including any areas designated for signage.
         (c)   Specification of the type and color of exterior materials to be
used for all wall, window, roof and other architectural features.
         (d)   Details of any exterior architectural lighting.
      (5)   Lighting plan.
         (a)   For all proposed buildings, additions and parking garages 1,000
square feet or greater, a lighting plan shall be provided indicating all
exterior lighting fixtures existing and proposed on site, and the proposed
light fixture locations and a light fixture schedule listing the cutoff details
of each light fixture, quantity used on site, and lumens rating.
         (b)   In addition, for all proposed buildings, additions and parking
garages 45,000 square feet or greater, a photometric layout shall be provided
with the lighting plan indicating all photometric calculations including foot-
candle levels on a regular grid across the site and extending beyond the lot;
and the aiming direction of the light fixtures.
         (c)   Subdivisions/PUDs: A plan of street lighting shall be provided
showing the location of the light poles and indicating lighting pole
specifications like pole height, material, color, and light specifications.
      (6)   Sign plan. The sign plan should show the location of the proposed
signs, street signs, list their types, dimensions, and illumination
specifications.
      (7)   Traffic impact study. A traffic impact study may be required to be
conducted at the discretion of the Plan Commission. If a traffic impact study
is required, then it shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer
and shall evaluate the impact of present and future traffic generated by the
proposed development on the adjacent roadway system. Prior to commencement, the
petitioner shall meet with the Plan Commission or its designees to determine
the appropriate scope for the study.
   (H)   Investigation of petitions. The Technical Advisory Committee may
review any Development Plan, at the Administrator’s or Plan Commission’s
determination, prior to the Plan Commission’s consideration. The Administrator
may submit a written report to the Plan Commission stating any facts concerning
the physical characteristics of the area involved in the Development Plan,
together with a recital of surrounding land use and public facilities available
to service the area, or other pertinent facts. The report may also contain
opinions of the Administrator concerning the proposal contained in the
Development Plan and a report from members of the Technical Advisory Committee.
A copy of such statement shall be made available to the applicant and all
remonstrators of record, if any.
   (I)   Development plan review criteria. Plan Commission shall review the
development plans using the following criteria to base their findings on:
      (1)   Compliance with all applicable development and design regulations
of the zoning and any overlay zoning districts where the development is
proposed.
      (2)   Compliance with all applicable site design and improvement
regulations in §§ 152.70 though 152.89.
      (3)   The proposed development shall be compatible with the surrounding
land uses.
      (4)   Management of traffic will be in a manner that creates conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious development of the
community such that:
         (a)   The design and location of proposed street and highway access
points shall minimize safety hazards and congestion.
         (b)   The capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient to
safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development.
         (c)   The entrances, streets and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the proposed development are compatible with existing and planned
streets and adjacent development.
      (5)   The applicable utilities have sufficient capacity to provide
potable water, sanitary sewer facilities, electricity, telephone, natural gas,
and cable service at a satisfactory level of service to meet the needs of the
proposed development.
   (J)   Public notice and hearing. A public hearing by the Plan Commission is
required for any development plan. Notification for the scheduled public
hearing must be completed according to §
152.10(F). The applicant is responsible for the cost of publishing the notice
in a newspaper and mailing the notices to the adjacent property owners. All
public hearings regarding a development plan review before the Plan Commission
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in the rules and
procedures of the Plan Commission.
   (K)   Findings. All findings specified above for the approval of a
development plan shall be in writing and signed by the Plan Commission
President and Secretary and retained as a part of the permanent record of the
determination.
   (L)   Conditions. Plan Commission may impose conditions on the approval of a
development plan if the conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy the
development requirements specified in the zoning ordinance for approval of the
development plan.
   (M)   Commitments. An applicant may be required or allowed to make a
commitment to the Plan Commission as a condition to the use or development of
real estate in connection with the approval of development plan. Such
commitments shall be provided in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1015.
   (N)   Effect of approval. Approval of a development plan shall not authorize
the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any
building or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and
processing of applications for such permits or approvals as may be required,
which may include but are not limited to approval of an improvement location
permit, building permit and a certificate of occupancy.
   (O)   Amendments to development plan.
      (1)   Amendments to development plan pending determination by the Plan
Commission. Amendments to development plan pending determination by the Plan
Commission may be made by the applicant at any time prior to a vote being
called for by the Plan Commission. If, in the sole discretion of the Plan
Commission, the proposed amendment is of such a nature that additional time is
needed for review, the Plan Commission may continue the consideration of such
amended development plan to the next meeting of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Amendments to approved development plans.
         (a)   Minor amendments. If the Planning Administrator determines that
a change to an approved development plan is not a major amendment, then the
change shall be deemed a minor amendment. Minor amendments may be approved
administratively without a public hearing.
         (b)   Major amendments. If the Planning Administrator determines that
a change to an approved development plan is a major amendment, then the
applicant shall be required to file a new application for an amendment to the
development plan, which shall follow the procedures set forth in this section
for the initial approval of the development plan.
   (P)   Duration. An approved development plan shall be valid for two years
from the date of the Plan Commission’s approval. The Plan Commission may grant
one six-month extension. The petitioner shall submit the request for an
extension in writing, and the Plan Commission shall make a written
determination regarding the decision to extend or deny the request. If
development of the project has not begun by the end of the two-year period (or
by the end of the six-month extension), the approved Development Plan expires
and a new application must be submitted.
   (Q)   Appeal of Administrator’s decision. A decision made by Administrator
on the minor amendment to the previously approved development plan may be
appealed in the following way:
      (1)   An appeal of the interpretation of a development standard of the
applicable district shall be to the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (2)   An appeal of the interpretation of any other development
requirement specified in §§ 152.70 through 152.89 shall be to the Plan
Commission; and
      (3)   An appeal of a determination to approve or deny a minor amendment
of a development plan shall be to the Plan Commission.
      (4)   All appeals shall be filed within 30 days of such determination.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2022-18, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 152.16 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage development
within the town in such a manner as to provide for the improvement of the
health, safety, convenience, and welfare of its citizens. Therefore, an
improvement location permit (ILP) will be required so that new areas will
develop with adequate street, parking, drainage, utilities, and health
consideration.
   (B)   Applicability. No improvement, development, structure or use of land
may be altered, changed, placed, erected, or located on platted or un-platted
lands in all zoning districts unless the improvement, development, structure or
use and its location conform to the comprehensive plan, this chapter, PUD
ordinance and an improvement location permit for such improvement, development,
structure or use has been issued. An improvement location permit is required
for improvement of land and development including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction of a new one-family or two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Construction of a new building or structure; addition to or removal
of a portion or complete demolition of an existing building or structure on a
lot used for multi-family or non-residential purposes.
      (3)   Remodel of a non-residential or multi-family building or structure
that increases or changes its square footage and/or use.
      (4)   Substantial alteration or removal of landscaping in areas required
to be landscaped per this chapter, PUD, variance conditions, or approved
development plan (e.g., landscape buffers, street trees, landscaping of parking
areas, common areas, and the like).
      (5)   Site work (grading, excavation, fill, infrastructure installation,
and the like).
      (6)   Subdivision development.
      (7)   Mineral extraction.
      (8)   Telecommunication facilities.
   (C)   Exception. The following improvements do not require an improvement
location permit: agricultural uses that do not involve construction of
buildings; alterations, additions or demolitions of the primary or accessory
structures on the residential lots used for one-family or two-family dwellings.
Construction of new accessory structures and alterations, additions or
demolition of all structures on a property used for one-family or two-family
dwelling shall be reviewed under building permit procedure prescribed in
Chapter 150.
   (D)   Application and fees. The applicant shall follow the application and
fee payment requirements prescribed in §
152.10. No permit shall be granted by the Administrator until all fees and
fines owed by the applicant to the town have been paid in full. This
requirement shall apply not only to fees and fines specific to the individual
application, but shall also include all fees and fines owed on any permit
previously issued to the applicant.
   (E)   Submittal materials. In addition to the filled out application form,
the applicant shall submit supporting information based on the type of the
improvement location permit (ILP). The Administrator in writing may waive or
relax any of the documentation required which is irrelevant or unnecessary for
a thorough review of the development.
      (1)   ILP for one-family or two-family dwelling.
         (a)   Site plan. The site plan shall be drawn to scale and include the
following details:
            1.   Property address.
            2.   Property owner’s name.
            3.   Legal or site description of the real estate involved.
            4.   North arrow, scale, date.
            5.   Property’s area in square feet.
            6.   Location and dimensions of all property lines, lot lines,
existing easements, floodplains, wetlands and watercourses.
            7.   Location and size of all existing and proposed buildings and
structures.
            8.   Setbacks to the proposed structure(s).
            9.   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from the
subject site.
            10.   All adjacent rights-of-way.
            11.   Chart, indicating proposed site development standards,
including but not limited to minimum lot width, setbacks, and living floor
area.
         (b)   Building elevations. Building elevations drawn to scale shall be
provided for all sides of the building. The elevations shall include all
architectural details and measurements (building height, wall height per floor,
house widths, window sizes, door sizes, and the like).
         (c)   Infrastructure plan. The plan should show the location of all
easements and utilities to be installed; measurements of the driveway, driveway
construction specifications; on- and off-site sidewalks, their measurements;
“existing” and “proposed” grades for the structure, lot, and drainage swales,
adjacent pond 100-year flood elevations; finished floor elevations of the
proposed structure; all window wells and/or ingress/egress areas from the
basement area including elevations; and finished floor elevations for
structures on adjacent lots or the proposed pad elevations for those adjacent
lots without structures.
         (d)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan shall be required if there are
landscape standards in this chapter or PUD applicable to the said property. The
plan should show the location of sod, location of plants, and a table that
summarizes the number and type of plants.
         (e)   Anti-monotony form (for PUDs). An anti-monotony form shall be
required if there are anti-monotony standards in this chapter or PUD applicable
to the said property. The form should specify the elevation plan name and the
color package of a house proposed on the subject site and the same details on
other properties as required by the anti-monotony regulations.
      (2)   ILP for multi-family dwellings and non-residential uses (including
site work).
         (a)   Approved development plan.
         (b)   Construction plans.
            1.   General. Construction plans shall be prepared and submitted
for all required improvements to be installed by the developer. They shall
include profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other supporting data for
all required public streets, utilities, and other facilities.
            2.   Scale. Construction plans shall be prepared by an engineer at
a scale no smaller than one-inch to 40 feet.
            3.   Content. The following shall be shown:
               a.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along
center lines of all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or
roads, the elevation along the center line of the existing road or roads within
100 feet of the intersection shall be shown, plus approximate radii of all
curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
               b.   The Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that
cross-sections of all proposed streets at 100 foot stations shall be shown at
five points as follows: on line at right angles to the center line of the
street; each property line and points 25 feet inside each property line.
               c.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-
section of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage
easements, setback easements, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the
location of street signs; the location size, and invert elevations of existing
proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and fire hydrants, showing
connection to any existing or proposed utility systems; and exact location and
size of all water or other underground utilities or structures.
               d.   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate
description of any existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited
to, existing streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies,
streams, flood plains, and other pertinent features within the proposed
subdivision or planned unit development.
               e.   Topography at the same scale as the primary plat with a
contour interval of two feet, referred to sea level datum. All datum provided
shall be latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey datum and should be
so noted on the plat.
               f.   All specifications and references required by the local
government’s construction standards and specifications.
               g.   Title, name, address, and signature of registered engineer
and land surveyor, and date.
      (3)   ILP for a subdivision/PUD.
         (a)   Approved detailed development plan.
         (b)   Construction plans.
            1.   General. Construction plans shall be prepared and submitted
for all required improvements to be installed by the subdivider. They shall
include profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other supporting data for
all required public streets, utilities, and other facilities.
            2.   Scale. Construction plans shall be prepared by an engineer at
a scale no smaller than one inch to 40 feet.
            3.   Content. The following shall be shown:
               a.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along
center lines of all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or
roads, the elevation along the center line of the existing road or roads within
100 feet of the intersection shall be shown, plus approximate radii of all
curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
               b.   The Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, that
cross-sections of all proposed streets at 100 foot stations shall be shown at
five points as follows: on line at right angles to the center line of the
street; each property line and points 25 feet inside each property line.
               c.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-
section of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage
easements, setback easements, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the
location of street signs; the location size, and invert elevations of existing
proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and fire hydrants, showing
connection to any existing or proposed utility systems; and exact location and
size of all water or other underground utilities or structures.
               d.   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate
description of any existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited
to, existing streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies,
streams, flood plains, and other pertinent features within the proposed
subdivision or planned unit development.
               e.   Topography at the same scale as the primary plat with a
contour interval of two feet, referred to sea level datum. All datum provided
shall be latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey datum and should be
so noted on the plat.
               f.   All specifications and references required by the local
government’s construction standards and specifications, including a site-
grading plan for the entire subdivision.
               g.   Title, name, address, and signature of registered engineer
and land surveyor, and date.
   (F)   Application decision.
      (1)   The Planning Administrator or their designee shall approve or deny
the application. The Technical Advisory Committee may review improvement
location permit for multi-family, non-residential and subdivision developments,
at the Administrator’s or Plan Commission’s determination.
      (2)   If the Planning Administrator denies the application, they shall
provide the petitioner with the reasons for the denial in writing.
      (3)   Approval of the improvement location permit may not happen until
the approvals on related variance(s) and development plan applications
happened.
   (G)   Street frontage requirement. No permit shall be issued for any use or
structure unless the lot abuts upon and has adequate frontage on a public
street (the right-of-way of which has been dedicated and accepted for
maintenance by governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof, or the
construction of which is bonded in accordance with the standards and
requirements of the applicable municipal agency having jurisdiction thereof) in
accordance with the requirements of all applicable ordinances, except as
otherwise specifically authorized in zoning districts permitting private drives
or interior access roads or by variance.
   (H)   Duration.
      (1)   The work or use authorized by the ILP shall start within six months
of the date of issuance; otherwise the ILP shall lapse and become null and
void. All work authorized by any ILP shall be completed within 24 months from
the date of issuance, unless an extension is granted by the Planning
Administrator.
      (2)   Two extensions of up to three months may be authorized by the
Planning Administrator for reason/cause. All other extensions may be reviewed
and granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals. A written request for an extension
and a construction schedule shall be submitted to the Planning Administrator.
   (I)   Surety requirement. In conjunction with the approval of an improvement
location permit, the petitioner shall provide financial surety for all public
improvements when applicable.
   (J)   Posting of permit. The petitioner shall post the improvement location
permit on the project site in a conspicuous location.
   (K)   Inspection. The Planning Administrator, Building Inspector and their
designee(s) may inspect any structure or improvement at any reasonable time to
ensure compliance with the improvement location permit.
   (L)   Revocation of permit. Construction or development under any permit
shall proceed according to the applicable ordinances, the plans filed with the
permit application, and the conditions or commitments of any applicable
variance, rezoning or other approval grant. If the Administrator determines
that construction or development is proceeding or has proceeded in violation of
such ordinances, site plan or approval grant, or that the permit was issued in
violation of an ordinance or the conditions of commitments of such approval
grant, the Administrator may revoke such permit. The Administrator shall send
written notice of the revocation to the permit applicant.
   (M)   Appeal of determination. Any determination by the Administrator,
Building Inspector, or their designees, concerning the issuance of an
improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by
any party claiming to be adversely affected by that decision.
   (N)   Amendment to improvement location permit. When an applicant proposes
that the construction of building, structure, or improvement deviate from the
plans filed with the improvement location permit application and approved by
the Administrator, the applicant shall make application for an amended
improvement location permit. The Administrator shall review the application for
the amended improvement location permit in accordance with the procedures set
forth above. If such amended improvement location permit application is found
to be in compliance, the Administrator shall issue an amended improvement
location permit. Any determination by the Administrator with respect to an
amended improvement location permit shall be subject to the same appeal rights
and procedures as set forth above for an initial application for an improvement
location permit.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2022-18, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 152.17 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.18 EXEMPT ENTITIES.
   All projects proposed by exempt entities (see also §
152.03) will be administratively reviewed for determining whether such projects
meet development standards, including, but not limited to, setbacks,
landscaping, lot coverage, sidewalks, lighting standards, and other bulk
standards as outlined in this chapter.
   (A)   Procedures. Exempt entities may be exempted from this chapter with
Council review and approval. Said review shall follow the procedures outlined
below:
      (1)   Each project will be given a deficiency report describing the
provisions of this chapter that the project does not comply with. The
deficiency report with the project will be presented to the TAC for review and
comments.
      (2)   The sponsoring entity will be notified at the time of the TAC
letter of the deficiencies along with notification being given to the Council
on all projects. The Council shall adopt a resolution acknowledging and
accepting the deficiency report.
   (B)   Fees. Exempt entities may be exempt from paying any fees to the town
if approved by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.19 PLANNING ADMINISTRATION AGENCIES.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The administration of the planning and zoning regulations of this
chapter in the planning jurisdiction of town is conducted by the following
government entities: Town Council, Board of Zoning Appeals, Plan Commission,
and staff.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may, by resolution, establish a Technical
Advisory Committee. The purpose of the Technical Advisory Committee shall be to
provide technical support to staff as an aid in the review of applications or
petitions for public hearing, applications for improvement location permits,
and in the preparation of written or verbal comments by staff to the Plan
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals regarding all matters presented to such
bodies for public hearing.
   (B)   Administration of Planning and Zoning Authority. The Planning
Administrator shall administer the planning and zoning functions of the town as
prescribed by the Plan Commission and this chapter.
   (C)   Duties and powers of the Planning Administrator.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Administrator to supervise the
general administration of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Administrator to enforce and
administer this chapter; receive and review all applications required by this
chapter; issue improvement location permits; and number and file all
certificates of zoning compliance.
      (3)   The Planning Administrator shall, when requested by the Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals, or when the interests of the town so
require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in this
chapter and render written reports on the same.
      (4)   The Planning Administrator shall keep the records including,
without limitation, records of applications, permits issued, certificates
issued, inspections made, reports rendered, and notices or orders issued. The
Planning Administrator shall maintain records of all final determinations and
decisions of the Plan Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   The Planning Administrator shall transmit to the Plan Commission or
Board of Zoning Appeals the recommendation of the Department on all
applications, petitions, or matters requiring official action by the Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (6)   The Planning Administrator shall maintain the official zone maps
and designate on the official zone maps all map amendments granted under the
terms of this chapter.
      (7)   The Planning Administrator shall provide and maintain information
for the public relative to all matters arising out of this chapter.
      (8)   The Planning Administrator may designate staff to assist in the
daily administration of the duties and responsibilities set forth in this
chapter.
      (9)   The Planning Administrator shall perform such other duties as the
Plan Commission may direct in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND PERMITTED USES
§ 152.20 ZONING DISTRICTS DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Each of the standard zoning districts in this chapter stands alone and
is not a part of a hierarchy or pyramidal system of zoning. For example, what
is permitted in the Residential Zoning District is not necessarily permitted in
the Business Zoning District. Only those uses and development standards which
are expressly permitted and noted for each zoning district apply to that zoning
district.
   (B)   Districts. Land in the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be divided
and classified into the following zoning districts:
      (1)   Residential Districts:
         (a)   Residential District.
      (2)   Business Districts:
         (a)   Business District.
      (3)   Reserved for the future.
      (4)   Reserved for the future.
      (5)   Reserved for the future.
      (6)   Overlay Districts:
         (a)   Planned Unit Development.
   (C)   Zoning districts designation of annexed property. All territory which
may hereafter be annexed to the town shall be zoned consistent with the land
use policy of the comprehensive plan and with the zoning district most similar
to the zoning which was applicable prior to annexation, as long as that zoning
is consistent with the comprehensive plan land use policy map.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.21 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Buildings, structures, or land must only be used in a manner permitted
in the zoning districts where they are located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, construct, modify
or maintain any building within the Residence District to be used for business,
manufacturing, or industrial purposes.
   (C)   Any building or structure used exclusively for business or industrial
purposes which is situated within the Residence District or the residential
uses within the Business District shall follow the regulations for non-
conforming uses as provided in § 152.08.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.22 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The Residential District is intended for residential uses.
   (B)   Applicability. The boundaries of the Residential District are as
displayed on the official zoning map.
   (C)   Development standards. The development standards in the Residential
Zoning District shall be the following:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family dwelling: 4,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
         (c)   Multi-family dwelling: 3,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be:
         (a)   Single-family use: 50 feet.
         (b)   Two-family use: 75 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family use: 100 feet.
         (d)   Minimum lot width shall be measured at the front setback line.
On corner lots, it shall be measured along the narrower front setback line.
         (e)   Lots located on a cul-de-sac/cul-de-loop shall maintain a
minimum street frontage of 45 feet measured along the front property line.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks on the lot shall be:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet.
         (b)   Side: five feet.
         (c)   Rear:
            1.   Primary structure: 20 feet.
            2.   Accessory structure: ten feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage:
         (a)   Single-family use: 45%.
         (b)   Two-family use: 55%.
         (c)   Multi-family use: 65%.
      (5)   Maximum building height shall be:
         (a)   Primary structure: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 25 feet.
         (c)   Accessory structure(s) shall not be taller than the primary
structure.
      (6)   Minimum dwelling unit floor area shall be:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling:
            1.   One-story: 1,200 square feet of finished floor area.
            2.   Multi-story: 900 square feet of finished floor area.
         (b)   Two-family dwelling: 1,200 square feet of finished floor area
per dwelling unit.
         (c)   Multi-family dwelling: 900 square feet of finished floor area
per dwelling unit.
      (7)   Minimum parking requirement. There shall be minimum two off-street
parking spaces per dwelling unit on a lot.
      (8)   Number of primary structures. There shall be maximum one primary
structure per lot.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2023-08, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 152.23 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The Business District is intended for business and/or
commercial uses.
   (B)   Applicability. The boundaries of the Business District are as
displayed on the official zoning map.
   (C)   Development standards. Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-16-2023; Ord. 2023-08,
passed 5-15-2023)
§§ 152.24 - 152.26 [RESERVED].
§ 152.27 OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.27.A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the PUD District is to provide a relief
mechanism from the prescriptive standards of a regular zoning district. The PUD
District is intended to be used to achieve a higher quality of project design
than could be accomplished through the strict application of a regular district
or set of zoning districts, without adversely impacting the adequate facilities
required to serve the property and surrounding area. A PUD District is
established through Council approval with a specific PUD District ordinance
establishing the development standards and use standards for each PUD District.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall only apply to new
development proposals.
   (C)   Limitations on flexibility of planned unit developments. It is not
intended that the town automatically grants the initial plan of development
proposed by a petitioner. The Town Plan Commission shall approve only such
plans of development that are consistent with the public benefits resulting
from the planned unit development. Therefore, the Town Plan Commission may
require, as a condition of approval and subsequent amendment of the zoning map,
any reasonable condition, limitation or design factor that will promote proper
development of a Planned Unit Development.
   (D)   Purpose of Planned Unit Development (PUD) ordinance.
      (1)   To designate a parcel of real property as a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) including the underlying zoning district;
      (2)   To specify uses or a range of uses permitted in the PUD District;
      (3)   To specify development requirements in the PUD District;
      (4)   To specify the documentation including an overall plan and
supporting documentation;
      (5)   To specify any limitation applicable to the Planned Development;
and
      (6)   To specify any variations from the underlying zoning district
requirements.
   (E)   Prerequisite base zoning. The prerequisite base zoning shall be as
indicated in the PUD District ordinance. If a parent tract has multiple zoning
districts, each of those zoning districts must be on the prerequisite listing.
   (F)   Minimum project size. The minimum project size for a PUD District
shall be a) five acres or more in Residential Zoning District, b) three acres
or more in Business and Industrial Zoning Districts, and c) ten acres in Mixed
Use District.
   (G)   PUD Principles. A PUD District shall comply with the provision of this
chapter. In addition, a proposed PUD District should include concepts and
development and design standards that generally offer the following advantages
over a standard zoning district:
      (1)   Address the policies included in the comprehensive plan to
encourage consistency with the community’s vision as presented in the
comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Use design to provide compatibility between areas of different land
uses and development intensities within the PUD District.
      (3)   Buffer different types of land uses and development intensities
outside of the PUD District from those within the PUD District to increase
compatibility or minimize any adverse impact which new development may have on
existing or zoned development.
      (4)   Enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by conserving areas of
natural beauty, and natural green spaces and provide enhanced amenities and
open space.
      (5)   Promote and protect the environmental integrity of the site and its
surroundings and provide suitable design responses to the specific
environmental constraints of the site and surrounding area.
      (6)   Promote architecture that complements the surroundings.
      (7)   Counteract urban monotony and congestion on streets.
   (H)   PUD development standards. A proposed planned development plan shall
be designed to produce an environment of stable and desirable character in
keeping with the principles of good neighborhood design, and must provide
standards of community amenities, efficiency in street patterns, and areas for
parking adequate for the occupancy proposed, or equal to the requirements of
this chapter. It must also provide for a development density and related bulk
and coverage characteristics in keeping with the requirements of the
comprehensive plan and reflecting that of the base zone that contains the land
subject to rezoning as a particular Planned Unit Development.
      (1)   Establishment of site development intensity.
         (a)   Before approval of a preliminary planned development plan, a
detailed determination of land use intensity shall be declared.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided below, the development standards
for lots in a PUD may be varied from one another and from that allowed by the
underlying base zone. The maximum base zone density permitted under the PUD
process is as follows:
            1.   Residential use, low density: 0.5 unit/acre or less.
            2.   Residential use, medium density: 0.51 - 3 units/acre.
            3.   Residential use, high density: 3.1 or more units/acre.
         (c)   In calculating the density (net), certain areas inappropriate
for development including but not limited to bodies of water, floodplains,
wetlands, and rights-of-way, shall be discounted from gross acreage.
         (d)   The Commission shall make a finding that said intensity is
consistent with the land use element of the comprehensive plan of current
adoption and in the best interest of the city and surrounding areas.
         (e)   If such zoning is not related to the character of development
sought by the Planned Unit Development, then the Plan Commission shall
determine whether to require a rezoning of the site to a more appropriate zone
or to establish a development intensity pursuant to the PUD waiver procedure.
      (2)   Establishment of landscape buffer yard. A minimum 25-foot landscape
buffer yard shall be provided within the Planned Unit Development District as a
buffer between residential and non-residential uses. This landscape buffer yard
shall be maintained as common area, labeled on the development plan/subdivision
plat/parcel as common area/landscaping easement. The Declaration of Covenants
or other recordable instrument shall state that the landscape buffer yard is
common area and maintained by the association or developer of said project.
Exception to the minimum buffer yard size requirements include those
subdivisions or parcels abutting expressways or arterials and those
subdivisions having rear yards abutting a collector, arterial, or expressway
then those specific requirements apply. A variety of trees, shrubs and/or
ornamental grasses is required. The applicant shall follow the landscaping
design and installation standards in § 152.64.
      (3)   Establishment of maximum height, building size. Maximum heights and
maximum/minimum building sizes shall be as required in the base zone unless
modified by the Plan Commission and approved by the Town Council as part of the
preliminary plan approval, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
      (4)   Open space requirement.
         (a)   Open space shall include cropland, forested areas, pastureland,
turf areas, decorative plantings, walkways, active and passive recreation
areas, playgrounds, and wooded areas. Open space does not include areas devoted
to public or private streets or rights-of-way.
         (b)   No plan for a Planned Unit Development shall be approved, unless
such plan provides for permanent open space areas equivalent to the following
types of Planned Unit Developments:
            1.   Residential PUD: 20% of gross acreage.
            2.   Mixed-Use PUD: 20% of gross acreage.
            3.   Industrial or Commercial PUD: 15% of gross acreage.
      (5)   Establishment of other site development regulations.
         (a)   PUD shall follow site design and improvement standards in §§
152.70 through 152.89.
         (b)   Other site development regulations, including but not limited to
parking, signs, accessory uses, landscape requirements, environmental
standards, flood plain protection, and public and private infrastructure shall
be as required in this chapter.
         (c)   The Plan Commission may recommend, and the Town Council may
authorize, exceptions to other applicable regulations of this chapter
controlling development within the boundaries of a PUD, provided that the Plan
Commission shall find that such exception shall be solely for the purpose of
promoting an integrated site plan no less beneficial to the tenants or
occupants of such development, as well as the neighboring property, than would
be obtained under the regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on
separate zoning lots.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN
§ 152.30 THOROUGHFARE PLAN COMPONENTS.
   (A)   The official thoroughfare plan consists of all of the following
components:
      (1)   The road classifications and designations prescribed in this
chapter;
      (2)   The maps that are part of the Boone County Thoroughfare Plan
adopted in 2017 (Exhibit A: Proposed Functional Classifications Revisions and
Exhibit B. Future Thoroughfare Plan); and
      (3)   Table 6. Proposed Right-of-Way Width and Table 7. Typical Roadway
Sections, both located in the Boone County Thoroughfare Plan adopted in 2017.
   (B)   The official thoroughfare plan is hereby declared to be a part of this
subchapter, and notations, reference, indications, and other details shown
thereon are as much a part of this subchapter as if they were fully described
in the text of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 15-51) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.31 DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   The thoroughfares comprising the official thoroughfare plan are hereby
classified on the basis of width and type, in accordance with their proposed
function as principal arterial, minor arterial, major collector, minor
collector, and local street thoroughfares:
      (1)   State Roads 47 and 75: major collectors.
      (2)   All other roads within the planning jurisdiction of the town: local
streets (urban).
   (B)   The minimum required width of right-of-way, travel lane number and
width, required street parking and its development standards, pavement section
and border section standards are listed in Table 6. Right-of-Way Requirements
and Table 7. Typical Roadway Sections located in the Boone County Thoroughfare
Plan adopted in 2017.
(1995 Code, § 15-52) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.32 OPENING OR WIDENING OF STREETS.
    Whenever a street classified in the official thoroughfare plan is to be
platted as a part of a subdivision, the required right-of-way width for such
thoroughfare shall be as specified in the official thoroughfare plan, provided,
that where a thoroughfare borders a tract of land to be subdivided, the owner
of such land shall be required to plat only one-half of the right-of-way
designated for such thoroughfare, measured at go degrees to the centerline
thereof.
(1995 Code, § 15-53) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.33 LOCATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)    Wherever the location of a thoroughfare is indicated in the official
thoroughfare plan as following an existing road or street, or a section or
other established property line, the location of the thoroughfare shall conform
to such location and the right-of-way for such thoroughfare shall be equally
divided by the section or half section line, if any, or by the centerline of
any existing road or street, or by the existing property line, however, a
thoroughfare lying wholly within a subdivision and not designated as following
an existing road or established property line, may be varied in its alignment
when such a variance promotes the plan of a neighborhood development unit in
accordance with good site planning principles, and if such alignment provides
for the continuity of traffic movement.
   (B)   In the absence of any street designated in each section of land,
within the jurisdictional area, on or approximately on the north-south and
east-west section lines of such sections, it is the intent of the official
thoroughfare plan and this subchapter that local street thoroughfares be
established on such section line.
   (C)   In the absence of any street designated in each section of land,
within the jurisdictional area, on or approximately on the north-south and
east-west half-section lines of such section, it is the intent of the official
thoroughfare plan and this subchapter that local street thoroughfares be
established on such half-section lines where feasible.
   (D)   Wherever the location of a thoroughfare is indicated in the official
thoroughfare plan as following an irregular alignment, or a revised alignment,
or is not referenced to an established line, it shall follow the alignment
shown in the official thoroughfare plan. Such alignment shall be subject to a
detailed survey which shall be subject to the approval of the Council prior to
dedication of the thoroughfare.
(1995 Code, § 15-54) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.34 CONSIDERATION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)    The Council shall be guided by and give consideration to the general
policy and pattern of street development set out in the official thoroughfare
plan in the authorization, construction, widening, alteration, relocation, or
abandonment of the public streets, highways, and related structures.
   (B)   No thoroughfare shall be abandoned or vacated until the Council shall
have held public hearings on vacation or abandonment of such thoroughfare.
Legal notice of such public hearing shall be provided by the person requesting
the vacation or abandonment.
(1995 Code, § 15-55) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.35 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
    Any permits authorized by the Council, the Plan Commission, the Building
Inspector or his or her agent permitting the erection, alteration, or
relocation of structures and other improvements within the jurisdictional area
shall be issued only if, in addition to satisfying other provisions, the
proposed thoroughfare right-of-way as set forth by this chapter will be
protected from encroachment. In this instance, the proposed thoroughfare right-
of-way lines will be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering
such thoroughfares for the purpose of establishing building lines.
(1995 Code, § 15-56) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.36 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
    The Council may determine lines for new, extended, widened, or narrowed
thoroughfares in any portion of the area within the town under the same
procedure as established for the certification and approval of the official
thoroughfare plan.
(1995 Code, § 15-57) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
FLOODPLAIN CONTROL REGULATIONS
§§ 152.40 - 152.49 [RESERVED].
SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
§ 152.50 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section is enacted for the purpose of adopting subdivision
regulations for the town. The regulation of land subdivision has become widely
recognized as a method of ensuring sound community growth and the safeguarding
of the interests of the homeowner, the subdivider, and the local government.
The citizens of the town need the assurance that subdivisions will provide
permanent assets to their community or neighborhood. This section should be
viewed, not as an end in itself, but as one tool or technique for the shaping
of urban-oriented land use according to a comprehensive plan for the
development of the town as a whole.
      (2)   The planning of a subdivision is the joint responsibility of the
subdivider and the Plan Commission, the former having the prime responsibility
for the creation of desirable, stable neighborhoods that become an integral
part of the town. Subdivision design and utility can enhance or depreciate the
character and potentialities of the surrounding areas and stabilize or endanger
the individual’s investment in a home.
      (3)   The Advisory Plan Commission has the responsibility of helping the
subdivider achieve a high standard of excellence in the planning of his or her
subdivision, and of informing all subdividers of the minimum standards and
requirements for subdivision development in the town.
   (B)   Objectives. With the adoption of this section regulating the
subdivision of land, the following objectives will be achieved:
      (1)   Better living conditions will be created within new subdivisions;
      (2)   Only those areas which can be economically serviced and maintained
will develop;
      (3)   Land descriptions will be simplified and made less susceptible to
more than one interpretation;
      (4)   Necessary streets, utilities, and public areas may be extended
without expensive land purchases;
      (5)   Property values will be enhanced and secured in the subdivision and
adjacent lands;
      (6)   Purchasers will be protected from unexpected assessments; and
      (7)   Future development in the town will improve the health, safety,
welfare, and convenience of all its citizens.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   This subchapter applies to all development within the planning
jurisdiction of the town.
      (2)   No site improvement or construction shall commence until all
required plans and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the town
or other governmental approving agency.
      (3)   No town services or utilities shall be extended or furnished to any
development until the applicant has installed the improvements specified in
this chapter or guaranteed their installation as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.51 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivisions are permitted in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Subdivision plats, replats, amendments or corrections to a recorded
plat cannot be recorded until approved in accordance with this chapter.
Approval must be in writing on the plat by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with this chapter and other laws, regulations, guidelines, and policies.
   (D)   Amendments or corrections to a recorded plat must be cited as an
addendum to the approved plat.
   (E)   An improvement location permit must be obtained before any development
of the site commences.
   (F)   An improvement location permit may be approved before the secondary
plat is recorded. However, the secondary plat must be signed before the
improvement location permit is approved.
   (G)   No building permit shall be approved until the secondary plat has been
recorded.
   (H)   No building permit shall be approved for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows
one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are
indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided, the Plan Commission
may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets
and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. As a requirement of the plat,
dedications of rights-of-way shall be provided for the future opening and
extension of such streets.
   (J)   Covenants.
      (1)   Wherever a subdivision with residential use includes common areas,
such as but not limited to detention ponds, open space, private streets,
private parks, and other community amenities, covenants shall be created to
regulate these common areas to ensure their neat and safe condition.
      (2)   In the case of public health, safety, and welfare, covenants may be
applied by the Plan Commission that are recorded with the plat and deed.
      (3)   Covenants can be placed on commercial and industrial developments.
      (4)   Homeowners’ Association. In cases of subdivisions with residential
use that include common areas, covenants shall provide for creation of a
Homeowner’s Association to maintain such common areas in a neat and safe
condition.
   (K)   Covenant enforcement. Unless specifically agreed to, covenants are not
enforceable by the Plan Commission or its designees, however, they are
enforceable in civil court by interested or affected parties.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.52 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   The applicant shall follow application procedures for primary and secondary
plats as provided in §§ 152.10 through 152.19.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.53 DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   In determining whether an application for approval of a primary plat
or a secondary plat of a subdivision shall be granted, the Plan Commission
shall determine that the plat is in accordance with the principles and
standards required in this chapter which shall be deemed as minimal; and
whenever the applicable requirements of other ordinances adopted by the town
are higher or more restrictive, those requirements shall control any
application for plat approval.
   (B)   The applicant shall follow the site design and improvement standards
as provided in §§ 152.70 through 152.89.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.54 WAIVERS OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is the intention of this chapter that all newly created lots in
town planning jurisdiction conform to the minimum subdivision control
regulations in this chapter. Waivers shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations, but rather provide for an
opportunity for an alternative standard in the following situations:
      (1)   Strict adherence to the standards of this chapter causes
extraordinary hardship or practical difficulty;
      (2)   The purpose and intent of these regulations may be served better by
an alternative standard.
   (B)   The Plan Commission, in its discretion, may authorize a waiver to any
provisions of this chapter and may impose conditions on waiver approval.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall not approve waivers unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property.
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver is based are
unique to the property for which the waiver is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property.
      (3)   The proposed development represents an innovative use of site
design, site access design, site circulation design, building orientation,
building materials, and landscaping which will enhance the use or value of area
properties.
      (4)   The proposed development is consistent with the purpose and intent
of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   Where the waiver affects design and construction of public
facilities, all appropriate public agencies will be given ample time to comment
in writing to the Plan Commission.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not grant waivers to the
subdivisions regulations. Per Indiana statute, it is not within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning Appeals to hear and or grant waivers to
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.55 INSPECTIONS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Road inspection. It shall be the duty of the developer to notify the
Building Inspector or its designee(s) before any construction commences on the
curbs, gutters, public walks, or roads, in order that the Building Inspector or
its designee(s) may run any and all tests required during the construction
period.
   (B)   Sewer and water inspection. It shall be the duty of the developer to
notify the Building Inspector or its designee(s) before any construction
commences on the sewage disposal and water supply facilities in order that the
Building Inspector or its designee(s) may run any and all tests required during
the construction period.
   (C)   Stormwater drainage inspection. It shall be the duty of the developer
to notify the Building Inspector or their designee(s) before commencing
construction so that any and all tests may be run on the drainage structures
and the grading of the subdivision during the entire construction period.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.60 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.61 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.62 PARKING, LOADING AND VEHICULAR CIRCULATION.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.63 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.64 OPEN SPACE AND AMENITIES.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.65 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.66 SIGNAGE.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.67 CLEAR SIGHT AREA.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
SITE DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS
§ 152.70 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. Except as otherwise provided below, the site design and
improvement standards in this subchapter are required for all subdivisions,
planned unit developments, and any other new development or redevelopment of a
site upon which such improvements do not currently exist. Exemptions from these
requirements may be granted by variance or, in the case of the subdivision
standards from §§
152.50 through 152.59, by a waiver/variance of the Plan Commission subject to §
152.55.
   (B)   Conformity with other regulations.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements established in these regulations,
the improvement of land shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Applicable statutory provisions;
         (b)   Applicable provisions of this chapter and all other laws of the
applicable jurisdictions;
         (c)   The official comprehensive plan of the applicable jurisdictions,
including all streets, trails, and parks shown on any official map(s);
         (d)   The rules and regulations of the State Board of Health, the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Indiana Department of Environmental
Management and other appropriate state agencies;
         (e)   Applicable planning and regulatory guidelines, including access
control or driveway manuals, parking and traffic control ordinances, and other
applicable guides published by the state or local governmental units;
         (f)   The current edition of the “Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” for installation of traffic control devices;
         (g)   The rules of the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) if
the development or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway; and
         (h)   The Boone County Thoroughfare Plan, as amended.
      (2)   To assure, through careful site evaluation and design the creation
of new parcels that are compatible with existing neighborhoods, the natural
environment, health and safety of the community’s residents; the developer,
contractor, and/or engineer for the project shall comply with the policies of
the comprehensive plan, this chapter, Boone County Highway Design Standards,
and the latest issue of the “Indiana Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications” for material and construction control, except when different
specifications are 1) explicitly described in these regulations, or 2) adopted
by the engineer of appropriate jurisdiction and approved by all appropriate
boards, commissions, agencies, and offices of the town or county.
   (C)   Political and jurisdictional boundaries. To eliminate potential
jurisdictional disputes and to facilitate effective coordination and control of
development, the Plan Commission shall be guided by the following policy:
      (1)   Whenever access to the development is required across land in
another local government, the Commission shall request assurance from that
local governmental attorney that access is legally established, and from the
local governmental engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or
that a performance bond has been duly executed and is sufficient in amount to
assure the construction of the access road.
      (2)   Lot lines shall be laid out so as not to cross boundary lines
between adjacent units of local government which has separate governing bodies
for the purpose of regulation and control of land use and development, as well
as for tax purposes.
   (D)   Conditions of development.
      (1)   Character of land suitable for development. Land that the Plan
Commission finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to
flooding, improper drainage, adverse earth formations or topography, utility
easements, or other features that will reasonably be harmful to the safety,
health, and general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the
development and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed
unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the
Planning Commission, upon recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee,
to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land
shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve any danger to public health,
safety, and welfare.
      (2)   Adequate public facilities. No primary plat shall be approved
unless the Planning Commission determines that public facilities will be
adequate to support and service the area of the proposed development. The
applicant shall, at the request of the Planning Commission, submit sufficient
information and data on the proposed development to demonstrate the expected
impact on and use of public facilities by possible uses of said development.
Public facilities and services to be examined for adequacy will include roads,
sewerage, schools, and public safety agencies.
      (3)   Reservation of land for public use.
         (a)   Where a proposed park or other public use is shown in a
comprehensive plan or master parks plan of the town, and said public use is
located in whole or in part within a proposed development, sufficient area for
the public use shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for
public purchase. If within five years of plat recording the purchase is not
agreed on, the reservation shall be terminated.
         (b)   Where it is deemed essential by the Plan Commission, upon
consideration of the particular type of development proposed in the
development, the needs for public services that the development will generate,
and the policies of the Comprehensive Plan, the Commission may recommend and
the Town Council may require the reservation of land for public use. Land
required for dedication shall be of a location, size, and character consistent
with the needs created by the development.
      (4)   Extension policies. All public improvements and required easements
shall be extended through the parcel on which new development is proposed.
Streets, water lines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electric lines,
and telecommunications lines shall be constructed through new development to
promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The town may require
the applicant of a development to extend off-site improvements to reach the
development or oversize required public facilities to serve anticipated future
development as a condition of plat approval. The cost of such extensions or
over sizing shall be borne by the developer unless other provisions have been
made to cover the cost via impact fee ordinances.
   (E)   Required improvements. The following improvements shall generally be
provided in new developments and, when provided, shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the conditions and specifications in this
subchapter.
      (1)   Monuments. The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments
in the development
in accordance with the regulations in §
152.71.
      (2)   Blocks and lots. All blocks and lots shall be designed in
accordance with the regulations in §
152.72.
      (3)   Streets and alleys. Streets and alleys within the jurisdiction of
the town and within the jurisdiction of Boone County shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the Boone
County Highway Design Standards and with the regulations in §
152.73.
      (4)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed in one
corner of each street intersection and in accordance with the regulations in §
152.73.
      (5)   Street lights. Street lights may be required for safety purposes,
and such installations shall conform to: 1) the requirements of the Town
Council/County Commissioners, 2) the public utility providing such lighting,
and 3) standards in §
152.73.
      (6)   Pedestrian network and sidewalks. Pedestrian network shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the regulations in §
152.73.
      (7)   Bridges and culverts. Bridges and culverts, if necessary, shall be
constructed in accordance with engineering standards approved by the engineer
of the applicable jurisdiction.
      (8)   Drainage facilities. Storm sewers, detention/retention ponds, and
other drainage facilities shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the regulations in §
152.74.
      (9)   Erosion control plan. All development which requires an improvement
location permit shall conform to the regulations concerning types of soils
involved and the conditions which are requisite to assure proper execution of
erosion and sediment control and proper drainage, in accordance with §
152.74.
      (10)   Sanitary sewers and septic systems. Public sanitary sewers and
septic systems shall be constructed in accordance with the regulations in §
152.75.
      (11)   Water facilities and fire hydrants. The placement of fire hydrants
and water mains for adequate fire protection shall be in accordance with the
appropriate fire district standards and in accordance with the regulations in §
152.76.
      (12)   Utilities. Energy and communication utilities shall be installed
according to the regulations in §
152.77.
      (13)   Preservation of existing natural and historic features. Existing
natural and historic features which add value to development and enhance the
attractiveness of the community should be preserved in all site plans in
accordance with §
152.78.
      (14)   Street landscaping. Street landscaping shall be provided in
subdivisions and Planned Unit Developments in accordance with §
152.79.
      (15)   Easements. Easements for various infrastructure shall be provided
in accordance with the regulations in this chapter and/or with §
152.81.
   (F)   Cost responsibility. The developer/owner is responsible for the costs
associated with all infrastructure and improvements unless modified by an
agreement between the town and said developer/owner of a specific project.
   (G)   Development names. The proposed name of the development shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of another
development in the planning jurisdiction of town. The reviewing authority shall
have final authority to designate the name of the development, which shall be
determined at the time of improvement location permit.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.71 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe
or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade; and
   (B)   Monuments shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of lines forming angles in the boundary of the
subdivision; provided, that not more than eight such monuments shall be
required;
      (2)   At the intersection of the centerlines of all streets and also at
the center points of all cul-de-sac turnarounds;
   (C)   Markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (4)   At all lot corners not established by monuments.
   (D)   Monuments shall be of stone, precast concrete, or concrete poured in
place with minimum dimensions of four inches by 30 inches set vertically in
place. They shall be marked on top with iron or copper dowel set flush with the
top of the monument, or deeply scored on top with a cross. Markers shall
consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30 inches long, and not less than
five-eighths inches in diameter.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.72 BLOCK AND LOT LAYOUT, ANTI-MONOTONY.
   (A)   Block standards.
      (1)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of lot(s) required by the zoning ordinance in
the district in which the subdivision is to be located, and to provide
convenient access, circulation control, and safety of street traffic. Blocks
that are unreasonably large or small will not be approved.
      (2)   Blocks should not exceed 800 feet in length. In the design or
blocks longer than 800 feet, the Plan Commission may specify the provision of
pedestrian crosswalks near the center of the block, or wherever would be most
useful to facilitate pedestrian circulation to a school, park, recreation area,
shopping center, or other significant neighborhood destination.
      (3)   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two
tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where an interior street parallels an
arterial or collector street, railroad right-of-way, floodplain, or similar
boundary obstruction.
   (B)   Lot standards.
      (1)   Lots shall be adequate for the type of development, land use
proposed and the corresponding minimum development features required of such
development.
      (2)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and orientation
shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to existing and
proposed topographical conditions.
      (3)   The minimum lot dimensions such as lot area and width shall conform
to the lot area and width requirements of the base zoning district.
      (4)   The minimum lot depth shall be enough to contain a building
envelope for any buildings and accessory structures, off-street parking
facilities, landscaping, required setback yards, and necessary easements for
utilities, infrastructure, and other features requiring easements.
      (5)   All lots shall abut on a street.
      (6)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this requirement is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be
avoided.
      (7)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that where
desired along interstates or arterial or collector thoroughfares, lots may face
on an interior street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event, a planting
strip for a screen, at least 20 feet in width, shall be provided along the back
of each lot.
      (8)   Setback requirements shall conform to the development requirements
of the base zoning district.
      (9)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel, stream, or
floodplain shall have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide
an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable area required for
front, rear, and side yards.
      (10)   The following paragraph shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all final plats to which they apply: “No driveway on
any corner lot shall enter the adjoining street at a point closer than 25 feet
to the intersection of the street right-of-way lines, or in the case of a
rounded property corner, from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines
extended”.
   (C)   Anti-monotony.
      (1)   General. Residential developments shall have diversity in
streetscapes, lot sizes, and/or development features to avoid monotonous
streetscapes and to encourage stimulating living environments.
      (2)   Avoiding monotonous blocks.
         (a)   Break in continuity.
            1.   A common area at least 100 feet wide used for a park or
another subdivision amenity shall constitute a break in continuity.
            2.   Intersections.
               a.   The right-of-way or easement for a public or private street
shall constitute a break in continuity.
               b.   Where a street or cul-de-sac terminates in a T-intersection
with a cross-street, a common area equal in width to the right-of-way of the
terminating street or cul-de-sac and at least as deep as the lots abutting
either side of the common area established opposite to and aligned with the
terminating street shall constitute a break in continuity.
         (b)   Architectural anti-monotony. No two dwellings with alike facade
styles and/or exterior color packages shall be permitted adjacent to,
diagonally, or across from each other.
         (c)   Building massing anti-monotony. To meet the building massing
anti-monotony provision, the developer is required to meet at least one of the
following standards:
            1.   No two dwellings of the same height shall be located side-by-
side. The height variation shall be at least two feet; or
            2.   No two dwellings with the same roof pitch of the longest roof
ridge shall be located side-by-side; or
            3.   No two dwellings with the same orientation of the longest roof
ridge shall be located side-by-side; or
            4.   No two dwellings with the same roof type shall be located
side-by-side. The roof types include, but not limited to, gable (includes open
and box), hip, gambrel, mansard, pyramid hip, skillion, and so on.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.73 TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Street standards.
      (1)   Street standards intent. The interconnected street network shall
provide safe and adequate vehicular and pedestrian access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision. It shall also provide adequate access
for emergency and service vehicles, enhance access by ensuring connected
transportation routes, and provide continuous and comprehensible traffic
routes.
      (2)   Street connectivity.
         (a)   Street patterns shall provide reasonably direct access to the
primary circulation system.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs are discouraged and are only permitted where street
continuation is prevented due to topography or other physical condition, or
unless the Plan Commission finds such extension is unnecessary for the
coordination of development within the development or between the development
and adjoining property.
         (c)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street
or alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (3)   Streets shall conform to the following principles and standards.
         (a)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so
as to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
         (b)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns shall
not conflict with the efficiency of bordering thoroughfares.
         (c)   Widths of thoroughfares shall conform to the widths set forth in
the thoroughfare plan.
         (d)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets or cul-de-sacs
shall be 50 feet.
         (e)   All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with
a minimum diameter of 100 feet and minimum roadway diameter of 95 feet. Cul-de-
sac streets shall be not longer than 600 feet, such distance to be measured
from the center of the turning circle to the intersection of the centerline of
the cul-de-sac street and the centerline of a through street, provided, however
that if the residential street within the subdivision has only one intersection
with a through street, the entire subdivision shall be measured from the point
of intersection of the subdivision street and the through street.
         (f)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but may be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
         (g)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
         (h)   At intersections of streets or alleys, property line corners
shall be rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
         (i)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than
60 degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of the property lines
shall be increased as deemed advisable by the Plan Commission.
         (j)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
         (k)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall
not be permitted.
         (l)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Plan Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
         (m)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, an arterial or collector street, provision shall be made
for a marginal access street, or a parallel street adjacent to such railroad
right-of-way or arterial or collector street. As a general principle,
intersections of such marginal access streets or parallel one-quarter mile
intervals with arterial streets, or at less than one-eighth mile intervals with
collector streets.
         (n)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements
of these regulations, and where the Plan Commission finds it will be proper to
require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is
subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be planned within such tract.
         (o)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case
in which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended but is not
yet constructed. An adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for
any such temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length.
Such easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when
such dead-ended street is legally extended.
         (p)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do
not conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by the
thoroughfare plan, the subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either
one or both sides, of such streets or inadequate width so as to bring them up
to standards, provided, the area to be used for widening is owned by the
subdivider or under his or her control.
         (q)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility
on all streets must be maintained along the centerline as follows.
 
Local streets     200 feet
Arterial streets  500 feet
Collector streets 300 feet
 
         (r)   Curvature measure along the centerline shall have a minimum
radius as follows.
 
Local streets     200 feet
Arterial streets  500 feet
Collector streets 300 feet
 
         (s)   Between reversed curves on arterial and collector streets there
shall be a tangent of not less than 100 feet and on local streets such tangent
shall be not less than 40 feet.
         (t)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
            1.   Arterial and collector, not greater than 6%; and
            2.   Local streets and alleys, not greater than 8%.
         (u)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.3%.
         (v)   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be confused
with, the names of any existing streets unless such proposed streets are the
logical extension or continuation of, or obviously in alignment with an
existing platted street, in which case the proposed street shall bear the names
of such existing streets.
         (w)   The following paragraph shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all secondary plats to which they apply: “No fence,
wall, hedge, tree, or shrub planting which obstructs sight lines and elevations
between two and 12 feet above the street shall be placed or permitted to remain
on any corner lot within the clear sight triangular area formed by the street
right-of-way lines extended”.
         (x)   At the intersection of any proposed local street and arterial or
collector streets, acceleration and deceleration lanes shall be provided in
accordance with the specifications of the State Highway Commission.
   (B)   Street improvements.
      (1)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades
shown on plans, profiles, and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and
prepared by a registered professional engineer and approved by the Plan
Commission.
      (2)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the
dimensions required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections and the work
shall be performed in the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications current
issue, of the Indiana State Department of Transportation.
      (3)   Street materials.
         (a)   The street pavement shall be of a Portland cement concrete or a
flexible pavement of dimensions as shown on the illustration(s) in Highway
Standard Drawings of Boone County Highway Department dated 2019.
         (b)   Material types as set out in State Department of
Transportation’s Specifications, secondarily street design to be used on local
streets serving industrial or commercial development.
      (4)   Where collector and local streets are located within the
subdivision as specified in the official thoroughfare plan as established by
this chapter, the subdivider will construct such street pavement in accordance
with the requirements for local streets set forth in division (B)(3) above. For
the purpose of constructing collector and local street pavements according to
the design characteristics set forth in division (B)(3) above, the Plan
Commission may use funds available for such purposes to participate with the
subdivider in the cost of such construction; provided, however, that such
participation shall be limited to that cost which is additional to the cost of
constructing the required local street improvements.
      (5)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate drainage
for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Culvert drainage pipe, when
required, shall be coated corrugated metal pipe or a similar type not less than
12 inches in diameter approved by the Plan Commission. Upon the completion of
the street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as built shall be filed
with the Plan Commission. Longitudinal subgrade drainage shall be provided
below the depth of the subgrade.
      (6)   Curb and gutter.
         (a)   The curb and gutter shall be installed on each side of the
street surface.
         (b)   All gutters and curbs shall be constructed in accordance with
the latest adopted version of Boone County, Indiana Highway Department Standard
Drawings.
         (c)   All materials in the curb mix shall meet or exceed INDOT
Standard Specifications Class A Concrete and a gradation report for all
materials shall be furnished to the Highway Inspector prior to installation.
         (d)   No concrete curb mix shall be placed below air temperatures of
40 degrees Fahrenheit.
   (C)   Alleys.
      (1)   The minimum right of way of an alley, if provided, shall be 16
feet.
      (2)   Alleys shall be paved full width to minimum local road standards.
      (3)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (4)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the end,
as determined by the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Sidewalks and pedestrian facilities.
      (1)   All developments must have a pedestrian network of sidewalks and/or
asphalt pathways for pedestrian transportation and recreation.
      (2)   The pedestrian network shall be designed in a way that includes
mobility options for people who are able-bodied and disabled.
      (3)   All concrete sidewalks, asphalt pathways, and crosswalk
improvements must comply with the requirements of Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), as amended.
      (4)   Required pedestrian pathways should be located within the right-of-
way.
      (5)   Sidewalks shall be installed on each side of the street.
      (6)   All proposed sidewalks shall be at least five feet in width or as
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (7)   All proposed sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement
concrete and designed by standards found in the latest adopted version of Boone
County, Indiana Highway Department Standard Drawings.
      (8)   Curb ramps for handicapped accessibility must be provided at all
intersections of streets, alleys, and drives (excluding individual residential
driveways) and comply with ADA requirements. Curb ramps are not permitted in
driveways.
   (E)   Street names and numbers, signs, and traffic control devices.
      (1)   Street names.
         (a)   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be confused
with, the names of any existing streets unless such proposed streets are the
logical extension or continuation of, or obviously in alignment with an
existing platted street, in which case the proposed street shall bear the names
of such existing streets. Street names that may be spelled differently but
sound the same as existing streets shall not be used.
         (b)   The Plan Commission shall have the authority to name all streets
in the case of conflict upon recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee
at the time of primary plat approval.
      (2)   Street signs.
         (a)   Streets must have the minimum number of street signs necessary
to create a safe environment for drivers and pedestrians and convey information
to efficiently find a certain street or address.
         (b)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with standard
county or town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
         (c)   Street signs must comply with the current edition of the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
         (d)   Street names and regulatory signs must be installed prior to any
street being opened to the public or the issuance of building permits within
the development section.
      (3)   Traffic control devices. The town or county shall be responsible
for the installation of all warning signs and other traffic control devices,
except for those, which may be warranted in industrial and commercial areas. In
such cases, the developer whose project has increased traffic to the degree
that a signal may be warranted may be required to pay the cost of traffic
signal installation and interconnection.
   (F)   Street lights. Street lights may be required to be installed
throughout the subdivision and such installations shall conform to the
requirements of the public utility providing such lighting.
   (G)   Plans approved for acceptance and dedication.
      (1)   Acceptance. All work must be acceptable to and meet all of the
requirements of the town or county pertaining to maintenance bond. Upon the
completion of all improvements and installations as required by this chapter,
the developer shall furnish the Town Council or County Commissioners with an
engineer’s certification that said improvements and installations have been
constructed, installed, and completed in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   Specifications. All work and materials shall meet the specification
requirements of the Boone County Highway Department Standards and the Standard
Specifications of the Indiana Department of Transportation.
      (3)   Bonds.
         (a)   Town jurisdiction.
            1.   Prior to the approval of a proposed plat for subdividing land
under the jurisdiction of the town, the person or firm or corporation
requesting the approval of said plat shall furnish a performance bond, a
certified check, certificate of deposit or irrevocable letter of credit
guaranteeing the completion of required infrastructure improvements in the
proposed development as set out in the plat tendered for approval. Said bond to
be in the amount of 110% of the estimated cost of completion of the required
public infrastructure improvements and which bond shall guarantee those said
infrastructure improvements. (Minimum amount - $1,000).
            2.   Prior to acceptance of construction and release of the
performance surety, the person, firm, or corporation requesting the development
shall file a maintenance bond or other accepted surety in the amount equal to
20% of the total construction costs of the required public improvements and
which surety shall provide for a period of three years following the release of
the performance surety.
         (b)   Jurisdiction of the county. Reserved for the future use.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.74 DRAINAGE, EROSION, AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land, or grading,
excavating, removal, or destruction of the topsoil, trees, or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until such time that a plan for minimizing
erosion and sedimentation has been reviewed by the Building Inspector or there
has been a determination by the Building Inspector that such plans are not
necessary.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision development shall meet the applicable
criteria set forth in this section.
      (3)   The cost of the installation and completion of necessary
improvements for this purpose are included in the bond required under §
152.52(F); or the Building Inspector determines that a plan for drainage and
minimizing erosion and sedimentation is not necessary.
      (4)   The Building Inspector shall be guided by the advice from the USDA
Soil Conservation Service, County Soil and Water Conservation District, County
Drainage Board, State Department of Natural Resources - Division of Water, and
other agencies or officials offering technical assistance on the subject of
soils, drainage, erosion, and sediment control. The application shall provide
the information, report, or plan for his or her application, and any additional
expense necessary to ensure adequate information, and any additional expense
necessary to ensure adequate information report or plans shall be met by the
applicant.
      (5)   Measures used to control erosion and reduce sedimentation and to
provide drainage shall as a minimum meet the standards and specifications of
the Boone County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (6)   The plans for the installation of a drainage system shall be
provided by the subdivider and shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer. The plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission. Upon completion
of the storm drainage system, the plans for such system as built shall be filed
with the Utility Board, Plan Commission, and Boone County Surveyor.
   (B)   Compliance with regulations and procedures.
      (1)   The design, installation, and maintenance of the required drainage
facilities and erosion and sediment control measures shall be in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the latest version of the Boone County
Stormwater Management Ordinance and the Boone County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (2)   Where such authority exists under the Indiana Drainage Code, (I.C.
36-9-27), approval of the Boone County Surveyor must be obtained for the
proposed development prior to approval by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The approval of plans and specifications for the control of erosion
and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the approval of the development, and
shall become a part thereof.
      (4)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the approval of the
development plan may be obtained under temporary easements or other conditions
satisfactory to the Building Inspector.
      (5)   In the event the applicant or developer proceeds to clear and grade
prior to the approval of the subdivision or development plan, without
satisfying conditions specified under division (F) above, the jurisdictional
agency having authority over the approval of such subdivision or development
plans may revoke the approval of all plans.
   (C)   Performance principals. The following measures are effective in
minimizing erosion and sedimentation and shall be included where applicable in
the overall development plan:
      (1)   Stripping of vegetation, regrading, or other development shall be
done in such a way that will minimize erosion;
      (2)   Development plans shall preserve prominent natural features, keep
cut fill operations to a minimum, and ensure conformity with topography so as
to create the least erosion potential and adequately handle the volume and
velocity or surface water runoff;
      (3)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected,
and supplemented;
      (4)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall be kept at a
practical minimum;
      (5)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as possible;
      (6)   Temporary vegetation and mulching shall be used to protect exposed
critical areas during development;
      (7)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development;
      (8)   Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Where necessary, the rate of surface water runoff will be
structurally retarded; and
      (9)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped until the disturbed
area is stabilized by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or
similar measures.
   (D)   Grading for drainage. In order to provide more suitable sites for
building and other uses, improve surface drainage and control erosion, the
following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   The locations, grading, and placement or subgrade (base) material
of all street, public driveway, and public parking areas shall be accomplished
as the first work done on a development plan.
      (2)   All lots, tracts, or parcels shall be graded to provide proper
drainage away from the buildings and dispose of it without ponding, and all
land within the development shall be graded to drain and dispose of surface
water without ponding, except where approved by the Building Inspector.
      (3)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design to adequately
handle the surface runoff and carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a
curbed street, storm drain, or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are
used to divert surface waters away from buildings, they shall be sodded or
planted as required and shall be of such slope, shape, and size as to conform
with the requirements of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Concentration of surface water runoff shall only be permitted in
swales or watercourses.
      (5)   Excavation and fills.
         (a)   Cut and fill slopes shall not be steeper than three to one
unless stabilized by a retaining wall or cribbing as approved by the Building
Inspector when handled under special conditions.
         (b)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging
the cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills, by installation
of temporary or permanent drainage across or above this area.
         (c)   Cuts and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
         (d)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
         (e)   Fills shall not encroach on natural watercourses or constructed
channels.
         (f)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during this period of
construction.
         (g)   Grading will not be done in such a way so as to divert water
onto the property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Building Inspector.
         (h)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control
will be exercised.
         (i)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
   (E)   Responsibility.
      (1)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping, vegetation,
regrading, or other development activities, it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant or person causing such sedimentation to remove it from all
adjoining surfaces, drainage systems, and watercourses and to repair it from
all adjoining surfaces, drainage systems, and watercourses and to repair any
damage at his or her expense as quickly as possible.
      (2)   Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage facilities,
and watercourses within any development plan area is the responsibility of the
applicant or developer; provided, that such facilities have not been dedicated
to the public and accepted by the appropriate authority for public maintenance.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the applicant and any person doing any
act on or across a communal stream, watercourse, or swale or upon the
floodplain, floodway, or floodway fringe area of any watercourse during the
period of development to return these areas to their original or equal
conditions upon completion of such activities.
      (4)   No applicant or other person shall block, impede the flow of,
alter, construct any structure, or deposit any material or thing, or commit any
act which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or
watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the County Drainage
Board and/or the State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water,
whichever is applicable.
      (5)   Where a development plan area is traversed by a watercourse, the
total development of the watercourse shall be considered. There shall be
provided a drainage easement or right-of-way conforming to the requirements of
the State Drainage Code and approved by the County Surveyor.
      (6)   Each applicant who makes any surface changes shall be required to:
         (a)   Collect on-site surface runoff and dispose of it to the point of
discharge into an adequate outlet;
         (b)   Handle existing and potential off-site runoff through the
development by designing to adequately handle storm runoff from a fully
developed area upstream;
         (c)   Pay his or her proportionate share of the total cost of off-site
improvements to the common natural watercourse, based on a fully developed
drainage area; and
         (d)   Provide and install at his or her expense, in accordance with
the requirements of the Building Inspector, all drainage and erosion control
improvements (temporary and permanent) as required by the Building Inspector.
      (7)   It is the responsibility of the applicant or owner to keep all
major watercourses, not under the jurisdiction of any public agency, open and
free flowing.
      (8)   The applicant or owner will assume the responsibility for
maintaining an open and free flowing condition in all minor streams,
watercourses, and drainage systems, constructed or otherwise improved in
accordance with this section, which are necessary for proper drainage.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.75 SEWER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary sewer
outlet and install such facilities in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers shall be located within the right-of-way or within a
15-foot easement in the front yard. The center of manhole covers shall be no
more than 12 feet from the back of curb.
   (C)   The subdivider shall submit plans for the installation of a sanitary
sewer system during the primary plat review process or development plan review
process. These plans shall be certified by a registered professional engineer.
The plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission or its designees. Upon
completion of the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for such system as
built shall be filed with the Utility Board.
   (D)   The subdivider shall contact the Building Inspector or its designees
to inspect the location of sewer facilities improvements.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.76 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
supply system which shall connect with an existing approved water supply system
outlet and install such facilities in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a water supply system shall be
provided by the subdivider and shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer. The plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission or its designees.
Upon completion of the water supply system, the plans for such system as built
shall be filed with the Utility Board.
   (C)   Where a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install
adequate water lines and other facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to
the specifications of state and local authorities. Upon completion of the
installation of the water lines, they shall be inspected by the Building
Inspector or its designees to assure proper installation.
   (D)   The location of fire hydrants and all water supply improvements shall
be confirmed with the appropriate fire and/or engineering departments and shall
be shown on the primary plat or development plan.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.77 OTHER UTILITIES.
   (A)   Location. All newly installed utility facilities, including but not
limited to gas, electric power, telephone, and cables, shall be located
underground wherever possible. Whenever existing utility facilities are located
above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights-of-way, they
shall be removed and placed underground. Underground service connections to the
street property line of each platted lot shall be installed at the developer’s
expense.
   (B)   Waiver of service connection to each lot. At the discretion of the
Planning Commission, the requirement for service connections to each lot may be
waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and
intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   (C)   Easements. Easements provided for other private or municipal utilities
shall be negotiated and accepted by those individual utilities. Easements shall
be indicated on the plat or development plan.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.78 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING NATURAL AND HISTORIC FEATURES.
   Existing natural and historic features that would add value to development
or to the community as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and water bodies,
wetlands, historic spots (buildings, structures, gardens, cemeteries, and the
like), and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of
the development. No such feature shall be removed from any development nor any
change of grade of the land affected until approval of the primary plat has
been granted. These features shall be marked on the primary plat plan. If the
developer wishes to change or remove these features, it shall show the features
to be changed or removed on the plan. The reviewing authority shall decide
whether the changes or removal of the features would be permitted.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.79 STREET LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Canopy trees shall be planted as a public improvement along any new
subdivision street between the sidewalk and the street curb, or between front
property line and street curb if sidewalks are not provided. The cost of street
trees and installation shall be born by the developer.
   (B)   Minimum number of trees. Developer shall provide at least one canopy
tree per 50 linear feet of right-of-way.
   (C)   Spacing of the trees. The trees shall be spaced between 30 to 60 feet
apart. Spacing is measured as distance between tree trunk’s centers.
   (D)   A landscape plan for installing street trees and/or shrubs shall be
developed by a certified landscape architect.
   (E)   In development of any landscape plan that includes trees or shrubs in
the public right-of-way, consideration shall be given to mature height and
spread; potential damage to sidewalks, street under-drains, curbs, and street
pavements by root systems; maintenance requirements; tolerance to pruning; and
adaptability to the specific street environment, including heat, glare, snow
and salt. Tree selection shall consider vertical clearance of branches
sufficient to allow adequate room visually and physically for vehicles passing
underneath.
   (F)   Shrubs shall be low growing and salt tolerant.
   (G)   The location of trees and shrubs at intersections shall permit clear
sight distance between two feet to ten feet above the street and 100 feet in
any direction of an intersection.
   (H)   Vegetation shall be selected with consideration for low maintenance
requirements. All vegetation and its continued maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the homeowner or homeowners’ association.
   (I)   Minimum number of trees. Developer shall provide at least one tree per
50 linear feet of right-of-way.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.80 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It is recognized that the subdivider in creating commercial or
industrial subdivisions often faces unique problems of lot design not normally
encountered in residential subdivisions. For this reason, the initial emphasis
of the Plan Commission shall be upon street layout and block arrangement.
Generally, the procedural requirements shall be for the owner to follow the
regular procedure outlined in these regulations, however, the subdivider need
show only two lots along with the street and block layout. Then, from time to
time, as prospective buyers or users express interest in lots sized to their
required specifications, the owner shall submit an amendment to the approved
recorded subdivision plat for consideration.
   (B)   Regular procedural requirements of the Plan Commission following the
receipt of a secondary plat shall then apply, except those streets that have
been built by following an approved set of plans on the previously approved
secondary plat shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of new
criteria by the Plan Commission. This shall also apply to storm drainage
facilities within the subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been
changed by the newly proposed improvements or by unauthorized existing
improvements.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.81 EASEMENTS.
   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be provided.
Such easements shall have minimum widths of 15 feet, and where located along
rear lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot. In the case of
lot extending to the boundary of the lands platted and not adjoining another
plat, the full width of the easements shall be provided on such peripheral
lots. Before determining the location of easements, the plan shall be discussed
with the local public utility companies to assure their proper placing for the
installation of such services during TAC review.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
    Action on the violation of any provision of this chapter and the right of
injunction against such violation shall be as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1013 et
seq.
(1995 Code, § 15-27)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ENCROACHMENTS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE
      
V.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Describing territories declared to be part of the
                          town
                        (1995 Code, § 1-19)
95-4          11-20-1995  Annexing property of Danny Layton and Randy Layton
1996-3        11-18-1996  Annexing certain lands contiguous to the town
97-4          2-16-1998   Annexing lands of the Thorntown Town Park
2000-1        3-20-2000   Annexing 3.6 acres of a publicly-owned town park
2000-2        3-20-2000   Annexing certain real estate into the town
2001-2        10-15-2001  Annexing 1.88 acres of real estate into the town
2009-4        12-21-2009  Annexing real estate contiguous to the land
2023-1        2-20-2023   Annexing real estate to the town
                         
 
TABLE II: ENCROACHMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1997-1        7-21-1997   Declaring the existence of an encroachment over and
                          along the north side of 445 W. Bow Street
1999-1        6-28-1999   Existence of encroachment on real estate known as 151
                          East Bow Street
Res. 2000-4   12-18-2000  Granting a right of encroachment for a garage
                          building located in alleys at 515 South Pearl Street
2001-1        4-16-2001   Encroachment exists over and along the west side of
                          real estate in the Country Aire Subdivision
                         
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Vacating the north and south alley in Horners
94-1          3-21-1994   Addition running south between Lots 1 and 2 on the
                          east and Lots 5 and 6 on the west
94-2          7-11-1994   Amending Ord. 94-1
95-6          11-20-1995  Vacating an alley in Riley and Niven’s Addition
2010-2        5-17-2010   Vacating the alley on Front Street between Lots 16
                          and 17 in South Addition
2013-4        8-19-2013   Vacating an alley in Lots 21, 22, 23, and 24 for
                          rezoning purposes
2017-3        - -         Vacating an alley as described by Exhibit A attached
                          to Ord. 2017-3
2020-6        5-18-2020   Vacating an alley in Lots 34 and 35
                         
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1993-6        5-17-1993   Re-dedicating and accepting real estate on Bow Street
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2006-5        7-17-2006   Authorizing the execution of a supplemental contract
                          between Indiana Municipal Power Agency and the town
                          Authorizing the execution of the Third Amendatory
2020-9        10-5-2020   Agreement to the power sales contract between Indiana
                          Municipal Power Agency and the town
                         
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Granting a franchise to Thorntown Telephone Co., Inc.
                        (1995 Code, Ch. 6)
Res. 2004-3   7-19-2004   Approving the transfer of a cable television
                          franchise
Res. 2006-4   8-21-2006   Authorizing Rapid Communications LLC to operate and
                          maintain a cable franchise
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites            Code Section
1-1-1-5               10.04
1-1-1-7               10.12
1-1-1-8               10.06
1-1-4-5               10.05
1-1-5-1               10.11
1-1-6-1               10.08
3-10-7-3              30.03
4-21.5-3-7            150.006
5-3-1                 34.30
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.    31.17
5-14-3-8              10.25
5-16-9-5              72.18
6-1.1-17-1 et seq.    31.17
6-3.6-2-14            34.19
6-9-39-1              90.01
7.1-1-1 et seq.       Ch. 111
7.1-3-9-3 et seq.     111.01
8-1-2-103(d)          50.05
8-1.5-1-1 et seq.     Ch. 50
8-1.5-3-3 et seq.     50.03
8-1.5-3-4             50.03,
                      50.08
8-1.5-3-4(a)(1)       32.31
8-1.5-3-9.1           50.01,
                      50.03
8-1.5-5               50.08
8-1.5-5-4(c)          50.08
8-1.5-5-4(d)          50.08
8-1.5-5-6             50.08
8-1.5-5-29            50.08
8-1.5-5-30            50.08
8-23-6-1 et seq.      70.02
9-21 et seq.          Ch. 70
9-21-11-1—9-21-11- 170.16
13-11-2-65            34.19
13-11-2-158           92.38
13-17-9               92.42
13-17-9-1             92.40
13-17-9-3             92.40
14-16-1 et seq.       Ch. 73,
                      73.20
14-16-1-20            73.21
14-16-1-22            Ch. 73
14-16-1-23            73.25
15-15-2-47            90.01
15-17-2-3             90.01
15-17-2-47            90.01
16-18-2-107           34.19
16-18-2-110           34.19
22-9-1-4 et seq.      93.02
22-9.5-1              93.01
22-9.5-2-2            93.02
22-9.5-2-3            93.02
22-9.5-2-4            93.02
22-9.5-2-8            93.02
22-9.5-2-9            93.02
22-9.5-2-11           93.02
22-9.5-2-13           93.02
22-9.5-3              93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.      93.09
22-9.5-4-8            93.10
22-9.5-5              93.02
22-9.5-5-1            93.03
22-9.5-6              93.02,
                      93.10
22-11-14              92.64
22-13-2               150.065
22-13-2-7             150.006
22-13-2-7(b)          150.022
22-15-3-1             150.037
22-15-4               150.002,
                      150.068
31-31-8               34.19
31-31-9               34.19
31-37-3               Ch. 130
33-19-1-1             70.01
33-37                 33.21
33-37 et seq.         31.37
34-28-5               130.039
35-38-2.6-2           34.19
35-47-1-6             130.021
35-47-2-1 et seq.     33.01
35-47-2-3             33.02,
                      33.03
35-47-3 et seq.       130.999
36-1-3                34.17
36-1-3-1 et seq.      Ch. 30
36-1-3-8(9)           10.23
36-1-3-8(a)(10)       10.99
36-1-5-4              32.01
36-1-6                130.039
36-1-8-2              34.18
36-1-8-11.5(a)        34.03
36-1-20.2             32.01
36-1-21               32.01
36-1.5.1.1 et seq.    90.02
36-4-6-11             32.01
36-5-2-1 et seq.      Ch. 31
36-5-2-2              10.14
36-5-2-9.4            32.01
36-5-3-1 et seq.      31.17
36-5-7-1              Ch. 33
36-7-2-3 et seq.      Ch. 150
36-7-2-6              Ch. 91
36-7-2-9              150.065
36-7-3-1 et seq.      Ch. 152
36-7-4 et seq.        152.01
36-7-4-101            31.90 ,
                      152.09
36-7-4-200 et seq.    31.90
36-7-4-202            31.91
36-7-4-300 et seq.    31.91
36-7-4-400 et seq.    31.91
36-7-4-500            152.09
36-7-4-600 et seq.    Ch. 150
36-7-4-607            152.11
36-7-4-700 et seq.    Ch. 152
36-7-4-701(d)      152.12
36-7-4-900 et seq.    31.53
36-7-4-901            31.53
36-7-4-902            31.53,
                      31.91
36-7-4-1013 et seq.   152.99
36-7-4-1015           152.09,
                      152.15
36-7-4-1400           152.15
                      150.140,
36-7-9 et seq.        150.143,
                      150.999
36-7-9-1 et seq.      Ch. 150
36-7-9-2              150.140,
                      150.141
36-7-9-4              150.142
36-7-18-1 et seq.     31.66
36-8-1-6.5            34.19
36-8-1-8              34.19
36-8-1-9              34.19
36-8-2-10             Ch. 110
36-8-5-1              Ch. 33
36-8-8-1              Ch. 33
36-8-15-3             34.19
36-8-16-2             34.19
36-8-16.7-22          34.19
36-9-2-5 et seq.      Ch. 91
36-9-23-1 et seq.     Ch. 50
36-9-27               152.74
36-10-3-1 et seq.     31.51,
                      Ch. 94
36-10-3-4             31.51
36-10-3-4(c)          31.51
36-10-3-4(c)(1)(A)    31.51
36-10-3-4(c)(1)(B)    31.51
36-10-3-4.1           31.51
36-10-3-5(a)          31.51
36-10-3-5(f)          31.51
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code 2017 Code Section
1995 Code 2017 Code Section
1-2       10.05
1-3       10.17
1-5       10.18
1-6       10.19
1-9       TSO I
1-10      10.20
1-12      10.23
1-16      10.21
1-18      10.22
2-1       30.01
2-2       30.02
2-51      31.15
2-52      31.16
2-53      31.17
2-106     32.15
2-107     32.16
2-108     32.17
2-109     32.18
2-121     32.30
2-122     32.31
2-123     32.32
2-124     32.33
2-125     32.34
3-1       111.01
5-26      150.001
5-27      150.002
5-28      150.003
5-29      150.004
5-30      150.999
5-31      150.005
5-32      150.006
5-33      150.007
5-34      150.008
5-46      150.020
5-57      150.021
5-58      150.022
5-59      150.023
5-61      150.035
5-62      150.036
5-63      150.037
5-64      150.038
5-65      150.039
5-66      150.040
5-67      150.041
5-68      150.042
5-69      150.043
5-70      150.044
5-71      150.045
5-72      150.046
5-73      150.047
5-74      150.048
5-75      150.049
5-76      150.050
5-126     150.090
5-171     150.120
5-172     150.121
5-173     150.122
5-174     150.123
5-175     150.999
Ch. 6     TSO IV
7-26      31.65
7-27      31.66
8-26      33.01
8-27      33.02
8-28      33.03
8-29      33.04
8-30      33.05
8-51      33.20
8-52      33.21
8-53      33.22
8-54      33.23
8-76      33.35
8-77      33.36
8-78      33.37
8-79      33.38
8-80      33.39
8-81      33.40
8-82      33.41
8-83      33.42
9-26      110.01
9-27      110.02
9-28      110.99
9-29      110.03
9-32      110.06
9-33      110.07
10-1      151.01
10-2      151.02
10-3      151.03
10-4      151.04
10-5      151.05
10-6      151.06
10-7      151.07
10-8      151.08
10-9      151.99
11-1      70.01
11-2      70.02
11-3      70.03
11-5      70.04
11-26     Ch. 74, Sch. V
11-27     71.01
11-28     71.02
11-28     71.99
11-29     71.03,
          73.99
11-30     Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
          Ch. 75, Sch. II
11-51     72.99
11-52     72.01
11-53     Ch. 75, Sch. I
11-66     72.15
11-67     72.16
11-68     72.17
11-69     72.18,
          72.99
11-91     73.01
11-92     73.02
11-93     73.03
11-94     73.04
11-95     73.05
11-96     73.06
11-116    73.20
11-117    73.99
11-118    73.21
11-119    73.22
11-120    73.23
11-121    73.24
11-122    73.25
12-1      92.01,
          92.03
12-2      92.02
13-1      130.999
13-2      130.001
13-3      130.002
13-4      130.003
13-5      130.004
13-6      130.005
13-56     130.035
13-57     130.036
13-58     130.037
13-59     130.038
13-60     130.039
13-61     130.040
13-81     130.055
13-82     130.056
13-83     130.057
13-84     130.058
13-85     130.059
13-106    130.070
13-107    130.071
13-108    130.072
13-109    130.073
13-110    130.074
14-1      94.99
14-3      94.02
15-27     152.99
15-51     152.30
15-52     152.31
15-53     152.32
15-54     152.33
15-55     152.34
15-56     152.35
15-57     152.36
16-1      50.04
16-2      50.04
16-3      50.04
16-4      50.04
16-4      50.99
17-1      91.01
17-27     91.16
17-28     91.99
17-29     91.17
18-1      50.01
18-2      50.02
18-26     50.03
18-27     50.03
18-28     50.03
18-29     50.03
18-30     50.03
18-31     50.03
18-32     50.03
18-56     51.01
18-57     51.02
18-58     51.03
18-71     51.15
18-72     51.16
18-73     51.17
18-74     51.18
18-75     51.19
18-76     51.20
18-77     51.21
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
Res. 1989-3 3-12-1989   30.02
Res. 1996-4 9-16-1996   32.45—
                        32.47
Res. 2000-4 12-18-2000  TSO II
Res. 2004-1 3-15-2004   34.16
Res. 2004-3 7-19-2004   TSO VI
Res. 2006-4 8-21-2006   TSO VI
Res. 2007-1 2-19-2007   31.01
Res. -      10-25-2007  34.02
Res. 2012-3 6-25-2012   32.01
Res. 2019-1 12-2-2019   50.08
Res. 2021-4 2-15-2021   34.03
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          - -         TSO I
-          - -         TSO VI
1984-4     - -         50.03
1993-1     - -         51.03
1993-3     - -         51.15—
                       51.21
                       130.020,
2013-2     - -         130.021,
                       130.999
                       73.40—
2014-6     - -         73.55,
                       73.99,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. VII
2017-3     - -         TSO III
2018-9     - -         34.30—
                       34.34
1984-7     7-26-1984   72.15—
                       72.18
1984-8     7-26-1984   73.01—
                       73.06
                       150.120—
1984-10    8-23-1984   150.123,
                       150.999
1984-11    8-23-1984   130.070—
                       130.074
1984-12    8-23-1984   150.021—
                       150.023
1985-2     3-13-1985   32.30—
                       32.34
1985-9     10-9-1985   130.036—
                       130.040
1985-10    11-27-1985  32.15,
                       32.19
1986-1     5-14-1986   33.35—
                       33.42
1986-2     5-14-1986   72.01
1987-6     11-9-1987   33.20—
                       33.23
                       73.20—
1988-1     2-8-1988    73.25,
                       73.99
                       150.085,
1988-3     3-21-1988   150.087—
                       150.090
                       150.001—
                       150.004,
                       150.006,
                       150.007,
1988-2     5-4-1988    150.023,
                       150.035—
                       150.037,
                       150.039,
                       150.044—
                       150.049
1989-1     8-14-1989   150.090
1989-3     10-9-1989   70.03,
                       70.04
                       151.01—
1989-5     12-11-1989  151.08,
                       151.99
1990-2     3-12-1990   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                       70.01,
                       70.02,
                       71.01,
1990-3     5-14-1990   71.03,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. V,
                       91.01
1990-4     10-8-1990   Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. II
1992-4     9-21-1992   110.07
1993-6     5-17-1993   TSO IV
94-1       3-21-1994   TSO III
94-2       7-11-1994   TSO III
1994-3     11-21-1994  10.23
95-3       9-18-1995   50.07
95-4       11-20-1995  TSO I
95-6       11-20-1995  TSO III
1996-3     11-18-1996  TSO I
1997-1     7-21-1997   TSO II
97-4       2-16-1998   TSO I
98-3       5-18-1998   34.17
1999-1     6-28-1999   TSO I
2000-3     2-21-2000   92.15—
                       92.19
2000-1     3-20-2000   TSO I
2000-2     3-20-2000   TSO I
2000-7     12-18-2000  33.37
2001-1     4-16-2001   TSO II
2001-2     10-15-2001  TSO I
                       70.15—
2002-3     8-19-2002   70.19,
                       70.99,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2002-5     10-21-2002  30.04
-          7-19-2004   92.03
2006-3     4-17-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2006-5     7-17-2006   TSO V
                       150.065—
2007-2     5-21-2007   150.071,
                       150.999
2007-3     9-17-2007   50.09
2009-4     12-21-2009  TSO I
2010-01    2-22-2010   50.06
                       52.001—
                       52.009,
                       52.020—
                       52.028,
                       52.040—
                       52.042,
                       52.055—
                       52.061,
                       52.075—
                       52.080,
2010-3     4-19-2010   52.095—
                       52.108,
                       52.120,
                       52.121,
                       52.135—
                       52.141,
                       52.155,
                       52.156,
                       52.170—
                       52.176,
                       52.999
2010-2     5-17-2010   TSO III
2011-1     1-17-2011   31.50—
                       31.52
2012-1A    1-16-2012   32.02
2012-1     6-18-2012   50.05
2012-2     6-18-2012   52.008
                       93.01—
2012-3     8-20-2012   93.10,
                       93.99
2013-3     8-19-2013   50.03
2013-4     8-19-2013   TSO III
2014-1     3-19-2014   50.07
2014-3     5-19-2014   51.04
2014-4     6-16-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2014-7     12-15-2014  30.03
                       92.35—
2015-1     9-21-2015   92.47,
                       92.99
2016-01    - -2016     34.01
2016-3     - -2016     30.15—
                       30.21
2016-5     - - 2016    31.80
2016-2     5-16-2016   34.15
2016-4     7-18-2016   34.18
2017-2     1-16-2017   34.19
2017-7     6-19-2017   150.072
2017-12    12-18-2017  50.11
                       150.140—
2018-1     2-19-2018   150.144,
                       150.999
                       92.60—
2018-2     6-18-2018   92.65,
                       92.99
2018-4     6-18-2018   33.37
                       92.60—
2018-5     6-18-2018   92.65,
                       92.99
2018-7     11-19-2018  32.20
2018-8     11-19-2018  31.90,
                       31.91
2018-10    12-17-2018  91.15
2019-4     5-20-2019   94.01
                       90.01,
2019-5     6-17-2019   90.02,
                       90.99
                       150.002,
                       150.005,
2019-7     6-17-2019   150.035,
                       150.036,
                       150.043
2019-9     9-16-2019   110.04,
                       110.05
2019-6     10-21-2019  90.03—
                       90.09
2019-12    11-18-2019  50.08
                       150.140—
2020-3     2-17-2020   150.144,
                       150.999
2020-6     5-18-2020   TSO III
2020-7     6-15-2020   10.25
2020-9     10-5-2020   TSO V
2020-12    - -2020     31.51
2021-3     6-7-2021    34.20
2021-7     6-7-2021    32.21
2021-8     6-7-2021    10.25
2021-9     6-7-2021    34.21
2021-10    8-2-2021    31.53
2021-12    10-4-2021   52.008
2021-15    12-20-2021  50.06
2022-1     1-17-2022   10.25
2022-2     1-17-2022   34.22
2022-3     1-17-2022   34.23
2022-4     1-17-2022   34.24
2022-7     6-6-2022    51.04
2022-8     6-6-2022    50.06
2022-11    6-6-2022    32.60—
                       32.68
2022-12    6-20-2022   31.54
2022-13    9-7-2022    10.25
                       150.072,
                       152.01—
                       152.23,
                       152.27,
                       152.27.A,
                       152.30—
2022-14    9-7-2022    152.36,
                       152.50—
                       152.55,
                       152.60—
                       152.67,
                       152.70—
                       152.81
2022-18    10-17-2022  152.15,
                       152.16
2023-2     1-16-2023   152.23
2023-1     2-20-2023   TSO I
2023-3     2-20-2023   34.25
2023-3-A   3-20-2023   34.25
2023-4     3-20-2023   34.26
                       152.07,
2023-08    5-15-2023   152.22,
                       152.23
2023-9     9-12-2023   50.06
2023-10-01 8-21-2023   10.25
2023-11    8-21-2023   34.27
2023-14    11-20-2023  32.60—
                       32.68
2024-1     2-19-2024   52.008
2024-2     2-19-2024   50.08
2024-3     2-19-2024   50.06
2024-4     2-19-2024   32.19
2024-5     2-19-2024   34.04
                      
 
