TIPPECANOE COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-21-CL, passed 8-28-23; and
State legislation current through 2023 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Tippecanoe County Contact Information
Address:    Tippecanoe County Government
20 North 3rd Street
Lafayette, Indiana 47901
Phone: 765-423-9215
Fax: 765-423-9196
Website:    www.tippecanoe.in.gov                Email:
   plbennet@tippecanoe.in.gov
COMMISSIONERS
Tracy A. Brown
David S. Byers
Thomas P. Murtaugh
COUNTY COUNCIL
Ben Murray: District 1
Jody Hamilton: District 2
Kathy Vernon: District 3
Lisa Dullum: District 4
John Basham II: At Large
Barry Richard: At Large
Kevin Underwood: At Large
COMMISSIONERS’ ASSISTANPaula Bennett
TREASURER                Yadira Salazar
COUNTY ATTORNEY          Doug Masson
AUDITOR                  Jennifer Weston
SHERIFF                  Robert Goldsmith
CLERK OF COURTS          Julie Roush
RECORDER                 Kristy Martin
SURVEYOR                 Zach Beasley
PROSECUTOR               Patrick Harrington
CORONER                  Carrie Costello
ASSESSOR                 Eric Grossman
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-26-CM
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
RE-CODIFICATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR TIPPECANOE COUNTY
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Tippecanoe has
determined the necessity of re-codifying the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana in order to provide for the usual daily operation of
the County and is an urgent necessity for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the County; and
   WHEREAS, the 2004 re-codification of the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana, attached hereto and by reference made a part hereof
and marked - "Exhibit A" (the Code of Ordinances) contains all Ordinances of a
general and permanent nature currently in force and effect in Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana, including those enacted since the prior codification
of Ordinances of Tippecanoe County; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners desires to update by revision or
addition certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make
reference to sections of the Indiana Code in accordance with the changes of the
law of the State of Indiana:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, as follows:
   1.   That the 2004 re-codification of the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana (the Code of Ordinances) as attached hereto as
"Exhibit A", be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   2.   That the purpose of the 2004 re-codification of the Tippecanoe County
Code of Ordinances is to restate or reenact each of the original Ordinances or
amendments thereto as identified in the Code of Ordinances attached hereto as
"Exhibit A" in accordance with I.C. 36-1-5-6, and each restated or reenacted
provision shall be reordained by the adoption of this Ordinance.
   3.   The Tippecanoe County Auditor is directed to maintain two copies of the
Tippecanoe County Code of Ordinances in the form attached hereto as "Exhibit A"
on file in the Office of the Tippecanoe County Auditor for public inspection.
   4.   This Ordinance is an urgent necessity for the immediate preservation of
the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of Tippecanoe
County, and shall take effect at the earliest date as provided by law.
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on first reading this 16th day of August, 2004, by the following vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
                                                                             
               Ruth E. Shedd, President
                                                                             
               John L. Knochel, Vice President
                                                                             
               KD Benson, Member
ATTEST:
                                                   
Robert A. Plantenga, Auditor of
Tippecanoe County
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on second reading this 16th day of August, 2004, by the following
vote:
 
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
                TIPPECANOE COUNTY
                                                                             
               Ruth E. Shedd, President
                                                                             
               John L. Knochel, Vice President
                                                                             
               KD Benson, Member
ATTEST:
                                                   
Robert A. Plantenga, Auditor of
Tippecanoe County
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-39-CM
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
TIPPECANOE COUNTY AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2007 supplement to the Code of Ordinances for the County of
Tippecanoe, State of Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances for the County of Tippecanoe, State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County
to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Tippecanoe County that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, as follows:
   1.   That the 2007 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana (the Code of Ordinances) attached hereto as "Exhibit
A", be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   2.   The 2007 supplement to the Tippecanoe County Code of Ordinances
attached hereto as Exhibit A shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County,
Indiana, and the Tippecanoe County Auditor is directed to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Tippecanoe County Auditor for public inspection.
   4.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Tippecanoe County, and shall take effect at the earliest date as
provided by law.
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on first reading this 5th day of November, 2007, by the following
vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               KD Benson /s/
               KD Benson, President
Yes               John Knochel /s/
               John Knochel, Vice President
Yes               Ruth Shedd /s/
               Ruth Shedd, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/   
Jennifer Weston
Auditor of Tippecanoe County
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on second reading this 5th day of November, 2007, by the following
vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               KD Benson /s/
               KD Benson, President
Yes               John Knochel /s/
               John Knochel, Vice President
Yes               Ruth Shedd /s/
               Ruth Shedd, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/   
Jennifer Weston
Auditor of Tippecanoe County
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-04-CM
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
TIPPECANOE COUNTY AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2010 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances for the County of
Tippecanoe, State of Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances for the County of Tippecanoe, State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County
to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Tippecanoe County that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, as follows:
   1.   That the 2010 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana (the Code of Ordinances) attached hereto as "Exhibit
A", be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   2.   The 2010 S-6 supplement to the Tippecanoe County Code of Ordinances
attached hereto as Exhibit A shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County,
Indiana, and the Tippecanoe County Auditor is directed to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Tippecanoe County Auditor for public inspection.
   3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Tippecanoe County, and shall take effect at the earliest date as
provided by law.
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on first reading this 15th day of March, 2010, by the following vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               John Knochel /s/    
               John Knochel, President
Yes               David S. Byers /s/    
               David S. Byers, Vice President
Yes               Thomas P. Murtaugh /s/    
               Thomas P. Murtaugh, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/    
Jennifer Weston, Auditor of Tippecanoe County
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on second reading this 15th day of March, 2010, by the following vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               John Knochel /s/    
               John Knochel, President
Yes               David S. Byers /s/    
               David S. Byers, Vice President
Yes               Thomas P. Murtaugh /s/    
               Thomas P. Murtaugh, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/    
Jennifer Weston, Auditor of Tippecanoe County
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-42-CM
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
TIPPECANOE COUNTY AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2013 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances for the County of
Tippecanoe, State of Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances for the County of Tippecanoe, State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County
to accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of law of the
State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Tippecanoe County that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, as follows:
   1.   That the 2013 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Tippecanoe
County, State of Indiana (the Code of Ordinances) attached hereto as “Exhibit
A”, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   2.   The 2013 S-8 supplement to the Tippecanoe County Code of Ordinances
attached hereto as Exhibit A shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County,
Indiana, and the Tippecanoe County Auditor is directed to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Tippecanoe County Auditor for public inspection.
   3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Tippecanoe County, and shall take effect at the earliest date as
provided by law.
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on first reading this 18th day of November, 2013, by the following
vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               David S. Byers /s/
               David S. Byers, President
Yes               John L. Knochel /s/
               John L. Knochel, Vice President
Yes               Thomas P. Murtaugh /s/
               Thomas P. Murtaugh, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/   
Jennifer Weston, Auditor
Tippecanoe County, Indiana
   Presented to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and
approved on second reading this 18th day of November, 2013, by the following
vote:
VOTE               BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
               TIPPECANOE COUNTY
Yes               David S. Byers /s/
               David S. Byers, President
Yes               John L. Knochel /s/
               John L. Knochel, Vice President
Yes               Thomas P. Murtaugh /s/
               Thomas P. Murtaugh, Member
ATTEST:
Jennifer Weston /s/   
Jennifer Weston, Auditor
Tippecanoe County, Indiana
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the county of Tippecanoe shall be
designated as the Code of Tippecanoe County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Tippecanoe County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless
the subject matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or
revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in 1982 and subsequently amended, the 1982
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(‘82 Code, §
        ).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   County boundary
§ 11.01 COUNTY BOUNDARY.
   The boundary of Tippecanoe County is as follows:
   The district of country within the following boundaries shall form and
constitute the county of Tippecanoe, to-wit: Beginning at the southeast corner
of township twenty-one north, range three west, thence north to the line
dividing townships twenty-four and twenty-five, thence west to the northwest
corner of section three, in township twenty-four north, or range six west,
thence south to the line dividing townships twenty and twenty-one, thence east
to the place of beginning.
(‘82 Code, § 1-2-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY COUNCIL
         
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
         
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
33.   COUNTY EMPLOYEES
         
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
         
35.   ELECTION DISTRICTS
         
36.   ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY COUNCIL
Section
Board of Commissioners
   
30.01   Board of Commissioners as County Executive
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Legislative procedures
   
30.04   Presiding officer duties
   
30.05   Administrative Assistant
   
30.06   Public participation rules and procedure
   
30.07   Virtual attendance of members
County Council
   
30.15   Fiscal body
   
30.16   Meetings
County Officials
   
30.25   Homeland Security Director
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AS COUNTY EXECUTIVE.
   (A)   The three-member Board of Commissioners of the county elected under
I.C. 36-2-2-2 is the County Executive.
   (B)   A member of the Executive who wants to resign must send written notice
to the clerk of the Tippecanoe County Circuit Court. The clerk shall then
declare the office vacant.
   (C)   The County Executive will meet during the first week of January in
each year to elect its President and Vice President by a majority of the whole
Executive, and to conduct such other business as may come before it.
   (D)   The President and Vice President shall serve for one year and until
the election and qualification of their successors. The President shall preside
over all meetings of the Executive and by his/her signature thereto shall
authenticate all ordinances passed by the Executive in his/her presence.
(‘82 Code, § 1-4-1) (Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Executive shall be held on the first and third
Mondays of each month at 10:00 a.m., with exceptions as noted in the schedule
attached to Resolution No. 2023-01-CM. Also, a regular meeting will be held
Thursday, December 28, 2023. Additional special meetings dates will scheduled
as necessary.
   (B)   If the public interest requires a special meeting of the Executive,
such a meeting may be called by a member of the executive or by: the County
Auditor; the County Clerk, if the office of County Auditor is vacant; or the
County Recorder, if the offices of County Auditor and County Clerk are both
vacant. An officer calling a special meeting of the Executive shall give at
least 48 hours notice of the special meeting unless the meeting is called to
deal with an emergency under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5. The notice must include a
specific statement of the purpose of the meeting, and the Executive may not
conduct any unrelated business at the meeting.
   (C)   The following meeting agenda policies and procedures will govern the
preparation of each meeting agenda:
      (1)   Request to be on the Commissioners’ meeting agenda must be made by
noon on Wednesday prior to the Commissioners’ meeting.
      (2)   A written paragraph summarizing the request must be submitted by
noon on Wednesday prior to the Commissioners’ meeting.
      (3)   Documents (contracts, MOU, quotes, and the like) requiring
Commissioners’ approval and signature must be submitted by noon on Wednesday
prior to the Commissioners’ meeting.
      (4)   The President of the Board of Commissioners may approve adding a
request in case of emergency or for other good cause shown.
(‘82 Code, § 1-4-2) (Res. 2002-01-CM, passed 1-7-02; Am. Res. 2003-01-CM,
passed 1-6-03; Am. Res. 2004-01-CM, passed 1-5-04; Am. Res. 2005-01-CM, passed
1-4-05; Am. Res. 2006-01- CM, passed 1-3-06; Am. Res. 2007-01-CM, passed 1-2-
07; Am. Res. 2008-01-CM, passed 1-7-08; Am. Ord. 2009-01-CM, passed 1-5-09; Am.
Res. 2010-01-CM, passed 1-4-10; Am. Res. 2011-1-CM, passed 1-3-11; Am. Res.
2011-40-CM, passed 11-7-11; Am. Res. 2012-01-CM, passed 1-3-12; Am. Res. 2013-
01-CM, passed 1-7-13; Am. Res. 2014-01-CM, passed 1-6-14; Am. Res. 2015-01-CM,
passed 1-5-15; Am. Res. 2015-36-CM, passed 12-21-15; Am. Res. 2017-38-CM,
passed 12-18-17; Am. Res. 2021-01-CM, passed 1-4-21; Am. Res. 2022-01-CM,
passed 1-3-22; Am. Res. 2023-01- CM, passed 1-3-23)
§ 30.03 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES.
   The County Executive adopting an ordinance, order, resolution, or motion for
the government of the county or the transaction of county business pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-4-2 will adhere to the following legislative procedures:
   (A)   Quorum. Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   Passage of ordinance. A majority vote is required to pass an
ordinance, unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-2-4-5)
   (C)   Continuation of question. If only two members of a County Executive
are present at a meeting of the Executive, and they disagree on a question that
is before the Executive, the question shall be continued until the next
meeting.
(I.C. 36-2-4-6)
   (D)   Passage of ordinance. Unanimous consent of the members present is
required to pass an ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
(I.C. 36-2-4-7(b))
   (E)   Adoption of ordinances, orders or resolutions.
      (1)   An ordinance, order, or resolution is considered adopted when it is
signed by the presiding officer. If required, an adopted ordinance, order, or
resolution must be promulgated or published according to statute before it
takes effect.
      (2)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation
must, before it takes effect, be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks, according to I.C. 5-3-1.
         (a)   With each publication of notice in a newspaper in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; or
         (b)   With the first publication of notice in a newspaper described in
division (a) and the second publication of notice:
            1.   In accordance with I.C. 5-3-5; and
            2.   On the official web site of the county.
(I.C. 36-2-4-8(a), (b)).
   (F)   Record of ordinance adopted.  Within a reasonable time after an
ordinance is adopted, the County Auditor shall record it in a book kept for
that purpose. The record must include the signature of the Presiding Officer
and the attestation of the Auditor. The record, or a certified copy of the
record, is presumptive evidence that the ordinance was adopted and took effect.
(I.C. 36-2-4-9) (‘82 Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 30.04 PRESIDING OFFICER DUTIES.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Commissioners and in the event of the
President’s absence the Vice President shall serve as the Presiding Officer of
all public meetings.
   (B)   Without limitation thereby, the duties of the Presiding Officer shall
include the following:
      (1)   Opening the meeting at the required time and calling the meeting to
order;
      (2)   Announcing business in the appropriate order;
      (3)   Stating and putting to a vote any motions that are made;
      (4)   Announcing the results of a vote;
      (5)   Enforcing the Rules Of Order on all occasions;
      (6)    Deciding all questions of order, subject to appeal by any member
of the Board to the duly appointed parliamentarian;
      (7)   Informing the attendees about points of order and practice when
necessary or called upon to do so;
      (8)    Representing the Board at all times and abiding by its rules.
   (C)   In the event of any dispute regarding questions of order or the
enforcement thereof, the current edition of Robert’s Rules Of Order Newly
Revised shall govern the Board of Commissioners in all parliamentary situations
that are not provided for by law and in which they are not inconsistent with
any special rules of order the Board of Commissioners may adopt.
   (D)   The County Attorney shall serve as parliamentarian for the Board,
advising the Presiding Officer on the principles and rules of parliamentary law
and procedure that may be involved in a particular situation.
(Res. 99-06-CM, passed 1-6-99)
§ 30.05 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   (A)   I.C. 36-2-2-14 provides for the appointment of an Administrative
Assistant by the Executive, to be the administrative head of the county under
the Board of Commissioners’ supervision.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners do hereby appoint an Administrative
Assistant and do hereby assign the following administrative duties to the
Administrative Assistant:
      (1)   Assist in the administration and enforcement of policies and
resolutions of the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Assist the Personnel Director in the administration of the county’s
personnel policies;
      (3)   Supervise activities of county government subject to the control of
the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (5)   Recommend measures for adoption to the Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   Prepare and submit reports to the Board of Commissioners that he
considers advisable or that are requested by the Board of Commissioners;
      (7)   Examine all claims against the county;
      (8)   Review all budgets when presented by the Auditor to the Board of
Commissioners;
      (9)   Keep the Board of Commissioners fully advised on the financial
condition of the county;
      (10)   Prepare and submit, under the direction of the Board of
Commissioners, a budget to the Board of Commissioners for each financial year;
and
      (11)   Perform such other duties as the Board of Commissioners requests.
(Res. 82-1, passed 8-2-82)
§ 30.06 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION RULES AND PROCEDURE.
   The County Board adopts the following policies and procedures:
   (A)   It is the policy of the Board of Commissioners that to the fullest
extent of the law all of their documents shall be available to the public as
soon as possible and as far in advance of all public meetings as is possible;
   (B)   All citizens have full opportunity to participate in county
government;
   (C)   All agendas for all Board of Commissioners meetings and caucuses shall
be posted and available for copying as far in advance of all caucuses and
meetings as possible;
   (D)   All minutes of all County Board of Commissioners meetings and caucuses
should be available to the public both by posting and copying as soon as
possible;
   (E)   All hand-outs, exhibits and documents shall be available to the public
as far in advance as possible before all caucuses and public meetings;
   (F)   Information that is not available to the public sufficiently in
advance of any caucus or meeting to allow sufficient public notice and
response, shall usually result in the rescheduling or postponement of that
agenda item to the next meeting or a special meeting of the Board of
Commissioners;
   (G)   The Board of Commissioners shall maintain a sign-up list for speakers
at each meeting of the Board of Commissioners (not at caucuses), and have on
each agenda a stated time for public participation. At the stated time, people
should be allowed to speak in the order in which they signed the speaker list,
limited to three minutes per speaker, if such limitation is necessary. All such
speeches may be supplemented by a written presentation, or the entire
representation may be submitted in writing at the option of the member of
public;
   (H)   In order to facilitate citizen attendance, the Board of Commissioners
will try to have as many meetings as possible during the evening hours;
   (I)   The Board of Commissioners will inquire as to use of the public access
cable television channel so that those people unable to attend can observe the
proceedings in the convenience of their homes;
   (J)   Inquiry and efforts shall be made to make all Commissioners documents
available at the public libraries to improve public accessibility;
   (K)   Inquiry and effort shall be made to put all public documents on-line
with the county’s home page
on the internet or some similar system to improve public and media
accessibility.
(Res. 97-03-CM, passed 1-9-97)
§ 30.07 VIRTUAL ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   This section is not intended to alter state or local guidance for
virtual attendance during public emergencies.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the requirements of I.C. 5-
14-1.5-3.5 with respect to virtual attendance by members at public meetings of
the Board of Commissioners. In the event of a conflict between the statute and
this section, the provisions of the statute shall govern.
   (C)   A member of the Board may participate in a meeting by any electronic
means of communication that allows all participating members to communicate
simultaneously with one another; and, if the public is permitted to attend,
also allows the public to simultaneously attend and observe the participating
members. A member participating electronically will be considered present for
purposes of determining a quorum. However, the member may not participate in
any final action unless the member can be both seen and heard.
   (D)   If a member is participating electronically, minutes for the meeting
shall reflect whether the members were physically present, virtually present,
or absent; identify the electronic means, if any, by which members of the Board
or public were attending.
   (E)   If a member is participating electronically, votes shall be taken by
roll call vote.
   (F)   At least 50% of the members attending the meeting must be physically
present at a meeting.
   (G)   A member may not participate virtually if a meeting is for the purpose
of taking final action to adopt a budget, make a reduction in personnel,
initiate a referendum, establish or increase a fee, establish or increase a
penalty, use eminent domain power, or establish, raise, or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-16-CM, passed 5-17-21)
COUNTY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 FISCAL BODY.
   (A)   The seven-member County Council elected under I.C. 36-2-3 is the
Fiscal Body. The Fiscal Body shall act in the name of “The Tippecanoe County
Council.”
(I.C. 36-2-3-2)
   (B)   The Fiscal Body will meet during the first week of January each year
to elect a president and president pro-tempore from its members.
   (C)   The County Auditor is the Clerk of the Fiscal Body and shall do the
following:
      (1)   Preserve the fiscal body’s records in the County Auditor’s office;
      (2)   Keep an accurate record of the fiscal body’s proceedings;
      (3)   Record the ayes and nays on each vote appropriating money or fixing
the rate of a tax levy;
      (4)   Record the ayes and nays on other votes when requested to do so by
two or more members; and
      (5)   (a)   This section applies only to a county having a population of
more than 100,000 that maintains an internet web site. The County Auditor shall
post on the county’s internet web site the roll call votes of the county fiscal
body not later than three business days after the following:
            1.   The date the roll call vote is taken if the county’s software
is able to generate a roll call vote.
            2.   If the county’s software is not able to generate a roll call
vote, the date the county fiscal body is first able to approve the minutes of
the meeting at which the roll call vote was taken.
         (b)   The County Auditor shall maintain the roll call vote information
on the internet web site for a period of four years.
   (D)   The County Sheriff or a deputy shall attend the meetings of the Fiscal
Body, if requested by the Fiscal Body, and shall execute its orders.
   (E)   The Fiscal Body may employ any legal and administrative personnel
necessary to assist and advise it in the performance of its functions and
duties.
(I.C. 36-2-3-6) (‘82 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Body shall hold a regular annual meeting, as prescribed by
I.C. 6-1.1-17, to adopt the county’s annual budget and tax rate.
   (B)   The Fiscal Body shall hold a regular meeting in January after its
election, for the purpose of organization and other business and shall hold
additional meetings at a regularly scheduled time each month which time may be
adjusted in the discretion of the Fiscal Body to accommodate holidays and other
conflicts.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the County Auditor, President of
Fiscal Body or by a majority of the members of the Fiscal Body. At least 48
hours before the meeting, the Auditor, President or members calling the meeting
shall give written notice of the meeting to each member of the Fiscal Body and
publish, at least one day before the meeting, the notice in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1. This does not apply to a meeting called to deal with an emergency
under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
   (D)   If a court orders the County Auditor to make an expenditure of county
money for a purpose for which an appropriation has not been made, the Auditor
shall immediately call an emergency meeting of the Fiscal Body to discuss the
matter. The meeting shall be held within three working days of the receipt of
the order by the Auditor, and notice of the meeting day, time, and place is
sufficient if given by phone to the members of the Fiscal Body and given
according to I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(‘82 Code, § 1-6-2) (Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of the Fiscal Body, see I.C. 36-2-3-7
COUNTY OFFICIALS
§ 30.25 HOMELAND SECURITY DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby established the position of County Homeland Security
Director, whose duties shall include:
   (A)   Developing and managing state and federal grant funding for emergency
management, homeland security and bio-terrorism programs.
   (B)   Building coalitions with local law enforcement, fire departments,
government entities and appropriate public or private organizations necessary
to develop, implement and respond to security and emergency concerns.
   (C)   Directing and coordinating responses for disasters, emergencies, and
threat assessment of terrorism including bio-terrorism.
   (D)   Monitoring the consistency of training provided to emergency service
providers.
   (E)   Organizing a Citizens Corps volunteer effort and Citizens Emergency
Response Teams (CERT) to train volunteers in emergency skills to serve as
auxiliary responders helping to meet emergency needs, thereby enabling
emergency personnel to focus on immediate emergency response needs.
   (F)   Such other and further duties as may from time to time to be
prescribed by the Commissioners.
   (G)   The Director of Emergency Management appointed under §
32.17 shall serve as County Homeland Security Director unless the Board of
Commissioners specify otherwise.
(Res. 2003-13-CM, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Membership in organizations
Area Plan Commission
   
31.015   Purpose
   
31.016   Representation
Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals
   
31.025   Board established pursuant to state statute; additional members
Cary Home Advisory Board
   
31.035   Establishment; members
Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
31.045   Establishment pursuant to state law
Department of Redevelopment
   
31.055   Establishment of Department
Economic Development Commission
   
31.065   Establishment; powers; terms
Emergency Planning Commission
   
31.070   Establishment; composition; duties
Hospital Authority
   
31.095   Creation
Information Technology Advisory Board
   
31.100   Creation
   
31.101   Purpose
   
31.102   Membership
   
31.103   Organization
   
31.104   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Information Technology
   
31.120   Creation of Department
   
31.121   Personnel
   
31.122   Activities of Department
   
31.123   Schedule of fees and charges
   
31.124   GIS digital data submission
Permit Coordinator’s Department
   
31.135   Creation; purpose; staff
Region IV Development Commission
   
31.145   Cooperative participation in Commission
Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
31.155   Creation; members
Solid Waste Advisory Commission
   
31.165   Title; purpose
   
31.166   Members
Tippecanoe County Commission on Human Relations
   
31.175   Purpose
   
31.176   Definitions
   
31.177   Commission created
   
31.178   Duties and powers
   
31.179   Exclusions
Wabash River Parkway Commission
   
31.200   Title; purpose
   
31.201   Members
Tippecanoe County Public Defender Board
   
31.205   Board established
   
31.206   Definitions
   
31.207   Board membership and appointment
   
31.208   Powers and duties of the Board
   
31.209   Authority of judges
   
31.210   Scope of subchapter
Tippecanoe County Polling Place Advisory Council
   
31.215   Council established
Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team
   
31.300   Team established
   
31.301   Purpose
   
31.302   Membership
   
31.303   Scope
   
31.304   Duties
   
31.305   Chairperson
Americans with Disabilities Act
   
31.400   Americans with Disabilities Act implementation
   
31.401   ADA project team; establishment; members
   
31.402   Grievance procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to authorize participation in
certain organizations that provide information and services that are necessary
for efficient operation of the county.
(‘82 Code, § 1-11-1)
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and appointed
officials and members of the county’s boards, council, departments or agencies
in local, regional state and national associations of a civic, education or
governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement
of county government operations.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(‘82 Code, § 1-11-2) (Ord. 82-13, passed 8-16-82)
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.015 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes membership and representation on the Area
Planning Commission.
(‘82 Code, § 6-101-1) (Ord. 75-24, passed 11-3-75)
§ 31.016 REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   The representation, both as to the number of members and the
qualification of members of the Area Plan Commission of Tippecanoe County,
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-211, is fixed at a total of 17 members to be determined
as follows:
      (1)   Two representatives who shall be members of the Tippecanoe County
Board of Commissioners, and who shall be chosen by the Board of Commissioners
and whose term shall be fixed by the Board, but shall not exceed their term as
such Commissioner.
      (2)   Two representatives who shall be members of the County Council, and
who shall be chosen by the County Council and whose term shall be fixed by the
Council, but shall not exceed his term on the Council.
      (3)   A representative who shall be an elected official who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the City of Lafayette, Indiana, and whose term shall
correspond to his office as such elected official.
      (4)   One representative who shall be a member of the City Council of the
City of Lafayette, Indiana, and who shall be chosen by the City Council, and
whose term shall be fixed by the Council, but shall not exceed his term on the
Council.
      (5)   A representative who shall be an elected official, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the City of West Lafayette, and whose term shall
correspond to his office as such elected official.
      (6)   One representative who shall be a member of the City Council of the
City of West Lafayette, and who shall be chosen by such City Council and whose
term shall be fixed by such Council, but shall not exceed such Council member’s
term on such Council.
      (7)   One representative who shall be a member of the Town Board of the
Town of Battle Ground, Indiana, and who shall be chosen by such Town Board, and
whose term shall be fixed by such Town Board, but shall not exceed his term on
the Town Board.
      (8)   One representative who shall be a member of the Town Council of the
Town of Clarks Hill, Indiana, and who shall be chosen by such Town Council, but
shall not exceed his or her term on such Town Council.
      (9)   One representative who shall be a member of the Town Board of the
Town of Dayton, Indiana, and who shall be chosen by such Town Board, and whose
term shall be fixed by such Town Board, but shall not exceed his term on such
Town Board.
      (10)   Two representatives who shall be citizen members holding no other
elected or appointed municipal, county or state office, who shall be appointed
by the County Board of Commissioners for a term of two years.
      (11)   Two representatives who shall be a citizen member holding no other
elected or appointed municipal, county or state office who shall be appointed
by the Mayor of the City of West Lafayette, Indiana, for a term of two years.
      (12)   Two representatives who shall be citizen members holding no other
elected or appointed municipal, county or state office who shall be appointed
by the Mayor of the City of Lafayette, Indiana, for a term of two years.
   (B)   In the event any city or town named herein is not, on the effective
date of this section, a participant by ordinance in the Area Plan Commission,
or subsequently withdraws from participation, then the representative or
representatives, be they Mayor, City Councilmember, Town Board member, or
citizen appointment, shall not be entitled to membership on the Plan Commission
and the total membership of the Commission shall be reduced thereby.
   (C)   In the event any governmental unit who has made an appointment to the
Area Plan Commission of Tippecanoe County under this subchapter should amend
this subchapter so as to eliminate or alter their particular representation on
the Area Plan Commission, without the adoption of a similar ordinance by all
other participating governmental units, the representation by such governmental
unit shall terminate, and for failure to then be in compliance with I.C. 36-7-
4-211(b), the membership of such governmental unit in the Area Plan Commission
shall be considered terminated. Thereafter the Area Plan Commission shall
provide no further services of any nature, including but not limited to
services in zoning, subdivision, board of zoning appeal functions, hearing,
recommendations, and enforcement to such governmental unit.
(‘82 Code, § 6-101-2) (Ord. 75-24, passed 11-3-75; Am. Ord. 76-1, passed 1-5-
76; Am. Ord. 86-4-CM, passed 2-3-86; Am. Ord. 95-35-CM, passed 7-3-95; Am. Ord.
2015-24-CM, passed 11-2-15)
PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.025 BOARD ESTABLISHED PURSUANT TO STATE STATUTE; ADDITIONAL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-28-1(c), the county elects a five member County
Property Tax Assessment Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The membership shall be as specified by statute with the Board of
Commissioners appointing three members and the County Council appointing two
members, all subject to the residency, certification, and political affiliation
requirements set forth in I.C. 6-1.1-28.
(Ord. 89-14-CM, passed 3-20-89; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
CARY HOME ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.035 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Cary Home Advisory
Board which shall consist of the following persons:
      (1)   The following members, each of which shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County;
         (a)   One member of the Board of County Commissioners;
         (b)   Two members of law enforcement agencies of the county (one of
which individuals shall be from the Tippecanoe County Sheriff’s Department);
         (c)   One member of the Tippecanoe County Office of the Indiana
Department of Child Services who shall be directly involved with emergency
child placement;
         (d)   Two members of the community;
      (2)   The President of Jessie’s Kids Foundation, Inc.
      (3)   One representative of Lafayette School Corporation appointed by
Lafayette School Corporation;
      (4)   Two township trustees to be appointed by the Tippecanoe County
Trustees Association;
      (5)   One member of the County Council to be appointed by the County
Council;
      (6)   One member of the Tippecanoe County Probation Department, to be
appointed by the Judge of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court; and
   (B)   Each member shall be appointed for a term of one year commencing on
January 1 of each year and shall serve until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (C)   The Cary Home Advisory Board shall be an advisory body that will meet
on a regular basis not less than four times a year, and will review the
operations and procedures being followed and utilized at the Jessie Levering
Cary Home and the Cary Home for Girls. The Cary Home Advisory Board shall make
written recommendations pertaining thereto to the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2009-09-CM, passed 5-18-09; Am. Ord. 2019-7-CM, passed 3-18-19)
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.045 ESTABLISHMENT PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   The Board of County Commissioners and the State of Indiana, do hereby
establish a Community Corrections Advisory Board, consisting of such members as
mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2(a), for such terms as mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2(b).
(Res. 88-1-CM, passed 1-8-88)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 31.055 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners now deems it to be in the best
interest of the county and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for
rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas by private
enterprise and the county by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Department of
Redevelopment of the County. The Department will be controlled by a board of
five members known as the County Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25, all of the territory within
the corporate boundaries of the county will be a taxing district to be known as
the Tippecanoe County Redevelopment District for the purpose of levying and
collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development
purposes as provided in I.C. 36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25. The Board of
Commissioners finds and determines that all of the taxable property within this
special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects and economic development projects carried out under I.C.
36-7-14 and I.C. 36-7-25 to the extent of the special taxes levied under those
sections.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint all five of the
members of the County Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The term of office of the members of the County Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on
January 1, 2002.
      (3)   Members shall be appointed, or reappointed, to serve annually in
subsequent calendar years, commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.065 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS; TERMS.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Economic Development Commission be established
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section, the Department of Development and
Tippecanoe County Economic Development Commission shall have all the powers
authorized by I.C. 36-7-12.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed to the Tippecanoe County Economic
Development Commission as set forth in I.C. 36-7-12-7 and shall serve
staggered, four-year terms pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-9(b). One member shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners, one member shall be nominated by the
County Council, and one member shall be nominated by the Lafayette City Council
as the fiscal body of the county’s most populous fiscal body.
(‘82 Code, § 1-10-2) (Ord. 80-1-CL, passed 2-12-80; Am. Res. 2002-37-CM, passed
11-18-02; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
EMERGENCY PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.070 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Emergency Planning Commission has been established pursuant to
I.C. 13-25-1-6. Under the terms of I.C. 13-25-1-6(h), the Emergency Planning
Commission is a county board and subject to the rules governing county boards.
   (B)   The Emergency Planning Commission shall be composed of the members
appointed by the Indiana Emergency Response Commission as set forth in I.C. 13-
25-1-1.
   (C)   The Emergency Planning Commission shall have the rights and
obligations imposed under I.C. 13-25 including, without limitation:
      (1)   The duty to prepare or review and update a local emergency plan;
      (2)   The duty to submit a spending plan to the Council; and
      (3)   The duty to make available to the public the materials specified
under I.C. 13-25-2-14.
(Ord. 2016-30-CM, passed 12-5-16)
HOSPITAL AUTHORITY
§ 31.095 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a body corporate and politic for the purpose of
exercising any one or more of the powers and authorities granted to such
Authority under the provisions of the Indiana Hospital Authority Act, as
amended, and as the same may be hereafter amended, to be known as the “Hospital
Authority of Tippecanoe County.”
(‘82 Code, § 1-10-5) (Res. 77-12, passed 5-16-77)
INFORMATION SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.100 CREATION.
   There is hereby established the County Management Information Technology
Services Advisory Board pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3.5-9. As of June 1, 2018, and
thereafter, the Board shall be known as the Information Technology Advisory
Board. Any references in this code to the Management Information Technology
Services Advisory Board shall be regarded as references to the Information
Technology Advisory Board.
(Ord. 2011-19-CM, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.101 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Information Technology Advisory Board is to advise and
assist the Board of Commissioners with respect to the provision and maintenance
of information technologies systems and services for all county departments.
(Ord. 2011-19-CM, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.102 MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Information Technology Advisory Board shall consist
of:
   (A)   Permanent voting members.
      (1)   County Commissioner President or designee;
      (2)   Two members of the County Council to be determined by vote of the
Council;
      (3)   County Area Plan Director;
      (4)   County Assessor;
      (5)   County Auditor;
      (6)   County Clerk;
      (7)   County Surveyor; and
      (8)   Two members, who are not elected officials nor required to be
employed by the county, to be recommended by the Board and appointed by the
Board of Commissioners. These two members shall serve an indefinite term at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners and shall continue to serve until a
successor is chosen.
   (B)   Ex-officio, non-voting permanent member(s):
      (1)   Chief Information Officer of the Department of Information
Technology; and
      (2)   GIS Administrator.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation. Members may,
however, with the approval of the Board, be reimbursed for out-of-pocket
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2011-19-CM, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.103 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Officers. The Board shall elect a President and a Vice-President from
among its voting members. The County Auditor shall serve as secretary of the
Board and prepare and maintain minutes of its proceedings.
   (B)   Meetings. The Board shall meet at least monthly. A majority of the
voting members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations shall be
made to the Board of Commissioners based on a majority vote of members of the
Board. Meetings may be rescheduled as needed in the event a quorum cannot be
reached on a specific meeting day. The Board may adopt additional rules and
policies for governance of its meetings.
(Ord. 2011-19-CM, passed 8-15-11)
§ 31.104 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Board shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To assist the Board of Commissioners in establishing policies and
programs for the implementation, application and utilization of computer and
data processing technology in the various offices and departments of the
county.
   (B)   To monitor emerging computer and data processing technology, including
software, and to make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners concerning
possible utilization of the emerging technology in the offices and departments
of the county.
   (C)   To advise the Board of Commissioners as to the need for additional
computer and data processing equipment and software and to assist the Board of
Commissioners in the purchase of equipment and software, including, if needed,
the development of specifications for bidding purposes.
   (D)   To advise and assist individual elected officials, offices and
departments of the county as to implementation, application and utilization of
computer and data processing technology.
   (E)   To provide direction for continuing operation and maintenance of the
county's geographical information system.
   (F)   To perform such other duties and assume other responsibilities as the
Board of Commissioners may from time to time assign to it.
(Ord. 2011-19-CM, passed 8-15-11)
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
§ 31.120 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a new department of the County Government
which shall be known and designated as the Tippecanoe County Management
Information Technology Services Department. As of June 1, 2018, and thereafter,
the Department shall be known as the Department of Information Technology. Any
references in this code to the Management Information Technology Services
Department shall be regarded as references to the Department of Information
Technology.
   (B)   The Department of Information Technology shall be under the
supervision of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   All matters previously under the Tippecanoe County Information
Services Department and in the Tippecanoe County GIS Department are hereby
assigned to the Department of Information Technology.
(Ord. 98-55-CM, passed 12-17-98; Am. Ord. 2001-09-CM, passed 4-2-01; Am. Ord.
2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.121 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Department of Information Technology shall be composed of the
Chief Information Officer of the Department and such other personnel as the
Board of Commissioners shall determine.
`   (B)   The Director of Information Technology shall be appointed by and
shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 98-55-CM, passed 12-17-98; Am. Ord. 2001-09-CM, passed 4-2-01; Am. Ord.
2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.122 ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   In the administration of the Department of Information Technology, the
Department shall coordinate its activities with all other Tippecanoe County
offices in order to prevent unnecessary duplication and overlapping of
services.
(Ord. 98-55-CM, passed 12-17-98; Am. Ord. 2001-09-CM, passed 4-2-01; Am. Ord.
2018-13-CM, passed 5-7-18)
§ 31.123 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Uniform schedule established. There is hereby established a uniform
schedule of charges and fees that the county shall charge for the provision of
products and services to the general public for plots, data dissemination and
data analysis.
   (B)   Small data sales. Any maps or data requests that require data import,
data creation or map layer creation for precise areas or precise selected data,
shall be billed on a time and material basis. The fee for each such data
request shall include the following:
      (1)   An initial charge of $15 per request as the minimum contribution
toward the county's cost of hardware, software, collection and maintenance of
the electronic stored data.
      (2)   A charge of $25 per hour to partially compensate the county for
labor costs, including benefits, and overhead costs for storing and maintaining
the data, rounded up to the nearest quarter hour.
      (3)   The following shall be charged for inkjet plotter costs. These
charges will be based on the width of the stock paper available at the
Department times the length used, and not the size of the original:
      High gloss white film
       or matte film      $3.00 per square foot
      High gloss photo
       paper         $0.90 per square foot
      Coated paper or
       heavy coated paper
       or natural tracing
       paper         $0.50 per square foot
      (4)   Electronic data reproduced on laser, ink jet printing, or any other
copies shall be sold as follows:
      8-1/2 x 11   $0.50 per sheet per side
      8-1/2 x 14   $0.50 per sheet per side
      11 x 14-7/8   $1.00 per sheet one side
      11 x 17    $1.00 per sheet one side
      (5)   One dollar per page for copies of microfilmed documents maintained
by the county.
      (6)   One dollar per floppy disk.
      (7)   Seven dollars per blank CD or DVD.
      (8)   For any other medium, the charge shall be the county's direct cost,
rounded up to the next highest full dollar.
   (C)   Large data sales.  
      (1)   The fees for the purchase of individual or the entire Tippecanoe
County GIS data layers shall be as follows (please note the following is for
vector, raster formats):
DATA LAYER DESCRIPTION PRICE
DATA LAYER               DESCRIPTION              PRICE
Cadastral                Parcel                   $1,000 for countywide data
Topography               2' Contours              $300 for countywide data
Digital orthophotography 2005 Color               $1 per tile
Digital orthophotography (2354 Tiles) 2002 B/W    $1 per tile (2500' x 2500'
(Mrsid format available)                          tiles)*
                                                  $1 per tile (400 tiles @
Digital orthophotography (948 Tiles) 1997 B/W     2500' x 2500' tiles and 548
                                                  @ 5000' x 5000' tiles)*
                         Surface water features,
Water features           rivers, lakes, ponds,    $300 for countywide data
                         streams
                         Public roads, streets,
Transportation           bridges, airports,       $300 for countywide data
                         railways
Boundaries               County, city, townships  $300 for countywide data
Section corners          Surveyors                No charge
Soils                    USDA                     No charge
Election                 Voting precincts/elected $300 for countywide data
                         official districts
 
*Digital orthophotography for 1997 and 2002 will be free of charge once the
2005 color orthophotography becomes available.
      (2)   The fee for purchase of a portion of the Tippecanoe County Parcel
(tax/assess) data in .xls format shall be as follows:
 
DATA       DESCRIPTION    PRICE
Tax/assess Parcel extract $300
 
   (3)   The charges set forth above shall permit the purchaser of the data to
purchase updates every six months or upon request, subject to availability at
$300/per request.
   (D)   Reimbursement for mailing costs (not including copy costs).
      (1)   Less than or equal to 4 oz. and postage - $0.50 for envelope;
      (2)   First class greater than 4 oz., and less than or equal to 2 lbs. -
$5.00;
      (3)   All other cost plus $5.00.
   (E)   Limitation on enhanced access.  Nothing herein shall be construed to
require any county employee to create information that is not contained in a
readily available public document. Department heads and elected officials may,
but are not required to electronically create and release information that is
not already publicly available.
   (F)   Telephone requests. Nothing herein shall be construed to require any
county employee to provide information contained on or within a public document
of an agency or department by telephone. Department heads and elected officials
may, but are not required to, take requests for documents by phone.
   (G)   Court records limitation. In compliance with Indiana Administrative
Rule 9 Section F, county employees are prohibited from providing bulk court
records or compiled court information in electronic format.
   (H)   Methods of payment.
      (1)   Payment for information under this section shall be made at the
time of delivery.
      (2)   However, an office may agree to invoice a person for the charge, if
that person or company has promptly paid invoices in the past.
      (3)   Any person, or their designee, requesting data shall be liable for
the total charges for the request.
      (4)   Any person, or their designee, who fails to pay the charges shall
be liable for the charges, plus interest, attorney's fees, and costs of
collection.
   (I)   Conflicts with state statute.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall compel any office to charge a fee for copies,
if the fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law.
      (2)   In the event the fees in this section are contrary to any charges
established by state statute, the state statute shall apply.
   (J)   Restriction.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person other
than those authorized by the county may reproduce, store, grant access,
deliver, or sell any information obtained from any department or office of the
county to any other person, partnership or corporation.
      (2)   In addition, any person who receives information from the county
shall not be permitted to use any mailing lists, addresses, or data bases for
the purpose of selling, advertising, or soliciting the purchase of merchandise,
goods or services, or to sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the
information obtained by the request to any other person.
   (K)   Posting of restriction.
      (1)   A copy of division (J) of this section shall be conspicuously
posted in all offices where electronic data is sold.2006 S-3
   Departments, Boards, Commissions and Authorities   20A
      (2)   The restriction contained in division (J) of this section shall
apply to any persons who obtain copies of any public information from the
county.
   (L)   Penalty.  
      (1)   Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this section,
by failing to pay or violating division (J) of this section, shall be guilty of
an infraction and may be fined up to $2,500.
      (2)   Each violation of division (J) of this section shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (M)   Depositing of fees.  All fees collected under this section shall be
deposited in the County Electronic Data Fund established pursuant to Tippecanoe
County Code § 34.62.
   (N)   No charge for units of county government. Any unit of county
government, which has provided electronic data used by the county to create the
electronic data covered by this section, shall receive copies of the data for
that unit's exclusive use free of charge.
   (O)   Relief.
      (1)   Any person or unit of government who has a dispute, or seeks relief
from the terms of this section, may seek resolution of that dispute or relief
from the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may grant such relief as is reasonable
after recommendation of the County's MITS Director.
(Ord. 2002-31-CM, passed 8-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-43-CM, passed 11-1-05)
Cross-reference:
   County Electronic Data Fund, see §
34.62
§ 31.124 GIS DIGITAL DATA SUBMISSION.
   (A)   The uniform digital data submission standards for Tippecanoe County as
more fully set forth in Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance No.2006-04-CM and by
reference made a part hereof, are hereby adopted as the standards for the
submission of GIS data to the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe County,
Indiana.
   (B)   All subdivision final plats, those portions of planned development
final detailed plans, including plats that depict and or define any lines of
property ownership both vertical and horizontal, parcelizations, easements, and
surveys as required for recording by Indiana Administrative Code, Title 865,
Article 1, Rule 12; (IAC 865 1-12); shall also be submitted digitally at the
time of recording to the Auditors' office and shall comply with the
requirements set forth in Exhibit A of Ordinance No. 2006-04-CM.
   (C)   The Auditor's office and the GIS department shall have 30 days from
the date of such submission to review and approve such GIS data submission,
otherwise the submission shall be deemed acceptable.
   (D)   If the Auditor or the GIS department determines that the GIS data
submission fails to meet the standards, the Auditor shall notify the party
submitting such GIS data of such determination in writing and the submitting
party shall have 30 days from the date of such notification to correct and
resubmit such data.
   (E)   Documents otherwise entitled to be recorded in the office of
Tippecanoe County Recorder may be recorded notwithstanding their failure to
comply with the standards.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to documents submitted for recording
which were created solely by hand drafting methods and do not exist in digital
format.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $500 plus
all court costs, attorney fees and other legal costs for a first violation of
the section and not exceeding $1,000 plus all court costs, attorney fees and
other legal costs for a second or subsequent violation of the section.
(Ord. 2006-04-CM, passed 4-17-06)
PERMIT COORDINATOR’S DEPARTMENT
§ 31.135 CREATION; PURPOSE; STAFF.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners now creates the County Permit
Coordinator’s Department to assist and coordinate applications for permits or
approvals from the following departments or offices: County Board of Health;
the County Highway Department; County Department of Buildings (Building
Commission); County Surveyor, and the Area Plan Commission. The Permit
Coordinator’s Department would be the initial contact for entities seeking
permits and approvals from the aforementioned offices or departments.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall create such staff positions that will
allow the Permit Coordinator’s Department to fulfill the purposes and
objectives as stated.
(Ord. 89-46-CM, passed 12-18-89)
   REGION IV DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.145 COOPERATIVE PARTICIPATION IN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Tippecanoe County, Indiana, by and through its proper officials do
hereby approve the agreement for cooperative operation of Region IV Development
Commission, and do hereby agree to become part of the Commission.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Board of Commissioners
to enter into active participation and to abide by the agreement of the
cooperative operation of Region IV Development Commission from and after the
adoption of this ordinance.
(‘82 Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. - -, passed 5-6-74)
   SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD
§ 31.155 CREATION; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created under I.C. 36-8-10-3 the County Sheriff’s
Merit Board to consist of five members.
      (1)   Three members are to be appointed by the Sheriff and two members
are to be elected by a majority vote of the members of the County Police Force
under procedures established by the Merit Board. No more than two members
appointed by the Sheriff nor more than one member elected by the County Police
Force may belong to the same political party. All members must reside within
the county. No Active County Police Force officer shall serve on the Board.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed to staggered four-year terms, with all
appointees to begin on June 15 of the year appointed.
   (B)   All action heretofore taken by or in the name of the Sheriff’s Merit
Board is hereby ratified, confirmed, approved and legalized.
(Ord. 83-5, passed 4-18-83)
   SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 31.165 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This Commission shall be known as the Solid Waste Advisory Commission.
   (B)   This subchapter is enacted to create a Commission whose purpose is to
evaluate the present status of solid waste alternatives available to the
citizens of the county. The evaluation is to be based upon both existing and
proposed facilities as well as the legal alternatives presently available. The
objective of the Commission is to make recommendations as to the courses of
action regarding solid waste alternatives including proposing legislation.
(Ord. 84-12, passed 9-17-84)
§ 31.166 MEMBERS.
   The Solid Waste Advisory Commission shall consist of the following members,
each of whom shall
be appointed for a term of one year commencing on January 1 of each year and
shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (A)   One member of the Board of Commissioners appointed by the County
Commissioners;
   (B)   One elected official of the City of West Lafayette, appointed by the
Mayor of West Lafayette;
   (C)   One elected official of the City of Lafayette appointed by the Mayor
of Lafayette;
   (D)   One representative of Purdue University appointed by the President of
Purdue;
   (E)   One member of the County Council appointed by the County Council.
(Ord. 84-12, passed 9-17-84; Am. Ord. 88-42-CM, passed 12-5-88)
   TIPPECANOE COUNTY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RELATIONS
§ 31.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted by the Board of Commissioners to provide
all of its citizens equal opportunity for employment, public accommodations,
and housing.
   (B)   The county will encourage and promote mutual self-respect and
understanding of each other by all groups in the county and promote the
guarantee of equal rights to all citizens as afforded by the ordinances of the
county, the laws of the state, and the Constitution of the United States.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not be construed in a manner that violates the
First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States or Article 1, §§ 2 and
3 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, with respect to the free
exercise of religion.
(Ord. 2001-08-CM, passed 5-21-01)
§ 31.176 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Tippecanoe County Commission on Human Relations.
   COMPLAINANT. A person signing the complaint alleging discrimination.
   DISABILITY. A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more major life activities.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any difference in the treatment of a person, including
exclusion or segregation, because of race, sex, religion, color, age, sexual
orientation, gender identity, disability, marital status, familial status,
national origin, ancestry, or status as a veteran.
   EMPLOYMENT. Working for another for wages or salary, but excluding an
individual employed by parents, spouse or child, or in the domestic services of
another.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. In this term, family means one or more persons under 18 who
live with a parent, legal custodian, or designee; pregnant women; or people in
the process of obtaining legal custody of a child.
   GENDER IDENTITY. An individual’s gender related to self-identity, self-
image, appearance, expression, or behavioral characteristics regardless of
whether the gender conforms to traditional definitions associated with the
individual’s sex assigned at birth.
   HOUSING. Any building or structure that is occupied as, or designed or
intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families but does not
apply to the following:
      (1)   The sale or rental of a single-family house sold or rented by an
owner if:
         (a)   The owner does not:
            1.   Own more than three single- family houses at any one time; or
            2.   Own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on the
owner’s behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any
right to any part of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three
single-family houses at any one time; and
         (b)   The house was sold or rented without:
            1.   The use of the sales or rental facilities or services of a
real estate broker, an agent, or a salesman licensed under I.C. 25-34.1, or of
an employee or agent of a licensed broker, an agent, or a salesman, or the
facilities or services of the owner of a dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by five or more families, or
            2.   The publication, posting or mailing of a notice, a statement
or an advertisement that indicates any preference or limitation that would
constitute discrimination as defined herein.
      (2)   The sale or rental of rooms or units in a dwelling containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four
families living independently of each other if the owner maintains and occupies
one of the living quarters as the owner’s residence.
      (3)   The selection of the other occupants of one’s own unit.
      (4)   With respect to discrimination on the basis of age and familial
status only, housing for older persons as defined in I.C. 22-9.5-3-4.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.  Any place which is open to, accepts, or solicits the
patronage of the general public or offers goods or services to the general
public, but does not include any place which is a bona fide private club where
the accommodations, facilities, and services are restricted to the members of
such club and their guests.
   RESPONDENT. A person against whom a complaint for a violation of this
subchapter has been filed.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Male or female homosexuality, heterosexuality and
bisexuality by orientation or practice, by and between consenting adults.
   VETERAN STATUS. A veteran of the armed forces of the United States; a member
of the Indiana National Guard; and/or a member of a reserve component.
(Ord. 2001-08-CM, passed 5-21-01; Am. Ord. 2016-18-CM, passed 9-6-16)
§ 31.177 COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   There is created in the office of the Board of Commissioners a
Commission on Human Relations. It shall consist of nine members serving without
compensation and broadly representative of the religious, racial, ethnic,
economic or political groups in the county.
   (B)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners within 90 days from July 1, 2001, the effective date of this
subchapter. Of the nine members first appointed, three shall be appointed for
one year, three shall be for two years, and three for three years. Thereafter,
each appointment to the Commission shall be for a term of three years. In the
event of a death or resignation of any member, a successor shall be appointed
to serve for the unexpired period for which such member had been appointed.
Members of the Commission may be removed for cause by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The Commission shall elect from the Commission members, once each
year, a chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary. The Commission shall hold one
regular meeting each quarter and such special meetings as the chairman may deem
necessary. All meetings will be open to the public and conducted at a
handicapped-accessible public location within the county. All meetings will be
held at a reasonable time. Adequate notice of meetings shall be given to the
general public.
(Ord. 2001-08-CM, passed 5-21-01)
§ 31.178 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The duties and powers of the Commission are:
   (A)   To receive, investigate, and seek to adjust all complaints of
discrimination, to require all complaints registered with the Commission to be
signed, properly verified by the individual who alleges the discrimination
against him or her within 90 days after the alleged discriminatory act is
committed;
   (B)   To make such investigations and studies in any field of human
relations in the county, in which, in the judgment of the Commission,
additional information is needed to effectuate the general purposes of the
Commission;
   (C)   To investigate complaints of discrimination and seek to correct such
by recommending to appropriate agencies, either public or private, such actions
as may be considered necessary or helpful in eliminating such discrimination;
   (D)   To conduct and recommend such educational and other programs as, in
the judgment of the Commission, will increase good will among the citizens of
the county and assure equal opportunities for all in all phases of community
life;
   (E)   To investigate complaints of discrimination against any individual,
firm, company, agency, corporation or association and to develop programs and
techniques designed to bring about the elimination of such discrimination;
   (F)   To take the testimony of any person under oath and to require the
production of any evidence relating to any matter under investigation by the
Commission;
   (G)   To recommend to the Board of Commissioners legislation to aid in
carrying out the provisions of this subchapter;
   (H)   To create such subcommittees and advisory committees as in its
judgment will aid in effectuating the purposes of this subchapter;
   (I)   To submit an annual report to the Board of Commissioners and a
briefing on any and all matters before the Commission whenever so requested by
the Board of Commissioners;
   (J)   To protect employers, labor organizations, employment agencies,
property owners, real state brokers, builders, and lending institutions from
unfounded charges;
   (K)   To notify all interested parties, when the majority of the members of
the Commission are of the opinion that the efforts of the Commission cannot
settle a complaint by education, persuasion, conciliation, or common sense, by
registered mail not less than ten days prior to the date set for a formal
hearing. All persons so notified will appear at the time and place designated
and may be represented by counsel. The Commission will take all testimony under
oath. The respondent or his or her counsel shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint, testify in his or her own behalf, call witnesses,
examine and cross-examine witnesses, and plead and argue his or her case. When
all information has been furnished to the Commission and the complainant and
respondent have been heard, the Commission will decide a just arrangement and
so inform both parties as to the findings, recommendations, and action to be
taken by each or both parties;
   (L)   In the event either the claimant or respondent falls or refuses to
comply with the order of the Commission, the fact of such refusal, together
with the verified complaint and the entire records of its proceedings, shall be
presented to the County Prosecutor for study or prosecution. If, in the opinion
of the County Prosecutor, any ordinances of the county, laws of the state, or
the Constitution of the United States have been violated, the County Prosecutor
will take appropriate action;
   (M)   To levy a fine of any amount, not to exceed $300, for any and all
persons not appearing for the formal hearing after they have been properly
notified.
(Ord. 2001-08-CM, passed 5-21-01)
§ 31.179 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter governing the Tippecanoe County Commission on Human
Relations shall not apply to churches, church schools, church affiliated day
care centers, religious organizations, associations or societies or non-profit
institutions or organizations operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with religious organizations, associations or societies, in the
area of employment or non- commercial activities.
(Ord. 2001-08-CM, passed 5-21-01)
WABASH RIVER PARKWAY COMMISSION
§ 31.200 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This Commission shall be known as the Wabash River Parkway Commission.
   (B)   This subchapter is enacted to create a Commission to review efforts of
the Lafayette Park Board, West Lafayette Park Board, Tippecanoe County Park
Board, Outdoor Drama Theater, Tippecanoe County Historical Society, and other
entities regarding the development of the Wabash River Corridor in the county
as a recreational focal point for residents of this county and elsewhere. The
Commission is intended to assist in the orderly development of the Wabash River
Parkway by making available a forum in which to discuss this project. After
receiving input from the various groups and boards, the Commission will develop
a comprehensive plan as well as a course of action for the development of the
Wabash River Parkway utilizing the cooperative efforts of all interested
parties.
(Ord. 84-11, passed 9-17-84)
§ 31.201 MEMBERS.
   The Wabash River Parkway Commission shall consist of the following members,
each of whom shall be appointed for a term of one year commencing on January 1,
of each year and shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified:
   (A)   One member of the Board of Commissioners appointed by the County
Commissioners;
   (B)   One elected official of the City of West Lafayette, appointed by the
Mayor of West Lafayette;
   (C)   One elected official of the City of Lafayette appointed by the Mayor
of Lafayette;
   (D)   One representative of Purdue University appointed by the President of
Purdue;
   (E)   One member of the Greater Lafayette Chamber of Commerce appointed by
the Chamber of Commerce;
   (F)   One member of the County Farm Bureau appointed by the County Farm
Bureau;
   (G)   One member of the West Lafayette Park Board appointed by the West
Lafayette Park Board;
   (H)   One member of the Lafayette Park Board appointed by the Lafayette Park
Board;
   (I)   One member of the County Park Board appointed by the County Park
Board;
   (J)   Two citizen appointees appointed by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 84-11, passed 9-17-84)
TIPPECANOE COUNTY  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD
§ 31.205 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The Tippecanoe County Public Defender Board is hereby established for the
purpose of providing legal representation to indigent defendants/respondents in
criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition, child support, civil
commitments and other proceedings where the right to counsel has been
established by law.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03)
§ 31.206 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Tippecanoe County Public Defender Board created by this
subchapter.
   INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION. The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/
respondent in a matter originating in a state court in Tippecanoe County
involving:
      (1)   A person charged with a crime as defined in state law;
      (2)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
      (3)   A violation of a condition of probation established as part of a
sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
      (4)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C. 31-16-
17-12;
      (6)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
      (7)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense has
been established by law.
   LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with all pre-trial,
trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/ respondent has
a right to counsel.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03)
§ 31.207 BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of three members appointed in a manner
consistent with IC 33-40-7-3: one member appointed by the County Commissioners;
one member appointed by majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or
juvenile jurisdiction; and one member appointed by the Indiana public defender
commission who must be a resident of the county or region managing the public
defender's office.
   (B)   After the initial term of each member, appointment shall be for three-
year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (C)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of the
Board: a city, town or county attorney; a law enforcement officer; a judge; a
court employee; an attorney who provides representation to indigent persons in
the county or region managed by the public defender board; an employee of the
department of child services; or an employee of any of the individuals
described in this division (C).
   (D)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member's duties if approved by the
Board.
   (E)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be approved
by a majority of the members present.
   (F)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (G)   The Board shall elect its chairperson by a majority of the Board.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03; Am. Ord. 2023-07-CM, passed 4-4-23)
§ 31.208 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-9-
15.5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
      (1)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
      (2)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible;
      (3)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders; and
   (B)   Establish policies and procedures for the provision of competent legal
representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of indigency
and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation provided at the
public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-9-11.5.
   (D)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds.
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03)
§ 31.209 AUTHORITY OF JUDGES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to abridge the authority of any
judge of a state court of this county from appointing counsel for any person
entitled thereto under the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03)
§ 31.210 SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a right of reimbursement
pursuant to I.C.33-9-14, except to the extent that any claims for reimbursement
comply with I.C. 33-9-14 and the Standards of the Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 2003-45-CM, passed 11-13-03)
TIPPECANOE COUNTY POLLING PLACE  ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 31.215 COUNCIL ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Polling Place Advisory Council is hereby
established.
   (B)   The Polling Place Advisory Council shall consist of no fewer than
seven members serving without compensation. The Council shall be representative
of the various geographical and political groups in the county. No fewer than
two members will represent the disabilities community or elderly voters.
   (C)   Each member shall be appointed for a term of two years and shall serve
until his or her successor is appointed.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint members of the Polling Place
Advisory Council no later than February 1, 2004. The Polling Place Advisory
Council shall meet at least once per year in those years in which elections are
held and shall submit to the Board of Commissioners its recommendations
regarding the provision of fully accessible polling places in Tippecanoe
County.
(Ord. 2003-51-CM, passed 12-15-03)
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE FATALITY REVIEW TEAM
§ 31.300 TEAM ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team in the
County of Tippecanoe, State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
§ 31.301 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Domestic Violence Review Team shall be to review deaths
resulting from domestic violence in this county as authorized by I.C. 12-18-8-
1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
§ 31.302 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team shall consist of 15 members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County as described under
I.C. 12-18-8-10 and 12-18-8-11, and shall include:
      (1)   A survivor of domestic violence.
      (2)   A domestic violence direct service provider agency.
      (3)   A representative of law enforcement from the area served by the
local domestic violence review team.
      (4)   The Tippecanoe County Prosecutor or the Prosecutor's designee.
      (5)   An expert in the field of forensic pathology or a coroner or a
deputy coroner.
      (6)   A medical practitioner with expertise in domestic violence.
      (7)   A judge who hears civil or criminal cases.
      (8)   An employee of a child protective services agency.
      (9)   Seven additional members, selected from among the following:
         (a)   A clergy member.
         (b)   A representative of county government.
         (c)   A representative from the Tippecanoe County Health Department.
         (d)   A representative from the Tippecanoe County Bar Association.
         (e)   A defense attorney.
         (f)   An educator.
         (g)   A probation officer.
         (h)   A representative from the business community.
         (i)   An animal control officer.
         (j)   An attorney who represents victims of domestic violence.
         (k)   A provider of a batterers intervention program.
   (B)   Members of the Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team shall be
appointed or reappointed for two-year terms.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
§ 31.303 SCOPE.
   The Team shall review only those deaths in which the person who commits the
act of domestic violence resulting in death:
   (A)   Is charged with a criminal offense that results in final judgment; or
   (B)   Is deceased.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
§ 31.304 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Team shall do the following:
      (1)   Assist a local agency in identifying and reviewing a homicide or
suicide that results from domestic violence.
      (2)   Develop recommendations for coordinated community prevention and
intervention strategies to prevent future homicides or suicides resulting from
domestic violence.
      (3)   Collect data described in I.C. 12-18-8-14 related to a death
resulting from domestic violence.
   (B)   The Team may develop a protocol to assist a person who performs an
autopsy in:
      (1)   Identifying a victim of domestic violence; and
      (2)   Preparing a written report identifying a person as the victim of
domestic violence and describing the cause of death.
   (C)   The Team shall be operated in conjunction with a:
      (1)   Local domestic violence shelter;
      (2)   Domestic violence program; or
      (3)   Domestic violence coordinated community response team.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
§ 31.305 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   Any member of the Team may serve as chairperson. The chairperson shall
be elected annually by the members of the Team at the first meeting of the Team
each year, and shall serve until his or her successor takes office.
   (B)   The Team shall meet at the call of the chairperson.
   (C)   The Team chairperson shall determine the agenda for each meeting.
(Ord. 2008-16-CM, passed 9-2-08)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
§ 31.400 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT IMPLEMENTATION.
   Facilities that are constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use
of the county shall be designed, constructed, or altered to be readily
accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, in accordance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act, the United States Department of Justice
ADA Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) and the Unites States Department of
Transportation Public Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) as they
apply to the county.
(Ord. 2011-30-CM, passed 11-21-11)
§ 31.401 ADA PROJECT TEAM; ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Americans with Disabilities Act Project
Team which shall consist of the following persons appointed by the Board of
Commissioners:
      (1)   One member of the Board of County Commissioners;
      (2)   One member of the County Council;
      (3)   The Executive Director of the County Highway Department;
      (4)   The County Human Resources Director; and
      (5)    The Commissioners Assistant appointed pursuant to County Code §
30.05.
      (6)   The Maintenance Director of Tippecanoe County.
   (B)   Each member shall be appointed for a term of one year commencing on
January 1 of each year and shall serve until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (C)   The Americans with Disabilities Act Project Team shall be an advisory
body that will meet as required and make written recommendations to the Board
of County Commissioners regarding the design, construction, alteration or
operation of county facilities and their accessability and usability by
individuals with disabilities, in accordance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and such other duties as may be assigned by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall annually appoint one member of the
ADA Project Team to serve as the ADA Coordinator for the county.
(Ord. 2011-30-CM, passed 11-21-11; Am. Ord. 2021-27-CM, passed 10-4-21)
§ 31.402 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by the county.
The county's personnel policy governs employment-related complaints of
disability discrimination.
   (A)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the
alleged discrimination such as name, address, telephone number of complainant
and location, date and description of the problem. Alternatives means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint,
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
   (B)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her
designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to:
         ADA Coordinator
         County Commissioners Office
         20 North Third Street
         Lafayette, IN 47901
   (C)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA
Coordinator and two other ADA Project Team members will meet with the
complainant to discuss the complaint and the possible solutions. Within 15
calendar days of the meeting, the ADA Coordinator will respond in writing, and
where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large
print, braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the
county and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
   (D)   If the response by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee
may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response
to the entire ADA Project Team.
   (E)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA
Project Team will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting, the ADA Project
Team will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to
the complainant. The response will explain the position of the ADA Project Team
and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint if different from
those indicated by the sub-ADA Project Team in the first step.
   (F)   If the response by the ADA Project Team does not satisfactorily
resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee may appeal the
decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (G)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Board of
Commissioners will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the Board of
Commissioners will respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format
accessible to the complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
   (H)   All written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator, appeals to the
ADA Project Team, appeals to the Board of Commissioners, and responses from
these groups will be retained by the county for at least three years.
(Ord. 2011-30-CM, passed 11-21-11)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Applicability of chapter
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   General intent and construction of powers
   
32.04   Statutory powers; municipal regulations
Organization and Administration
   
32.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council established
   
32.16   Department of Emergency Management established
   
32.17   Director of Emergency Management
   
32.18   Deputy Director
   
32.19   Powers and duties of County Commissioners
   
32.20   Qualifications of volunteers
   
32.21   Departmental personnel administration
   
32.22   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
32.23   Formulation, content and adoption of plan
   
32.24   Countywide jurisdiction
Emergency Powers, Regulations and Procedures
   
32.35   Applicability of subchapter
   
32.36   Pre-disaster responsibilities of Department of Emergency Management
   
32.37   Declaration of local disaster emergency
   
32.38   Emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners
   
32.39   Emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
32.40   Emergency duties of Director of Emergency Management
   
32.41   Cooperation of county officers and employees
   
32.42   Priority of emergency orders, rules and regulations
   
32.43   Unlawful acts
   
32.44   Limitation of liability
   
32.45   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
Hazardous Materials Response Team
   
32.55   Composition; purpose
   
32.56   System of reimbursement for costs and expenses associated with
Hazardous Materials Response Team
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous Materials Response Team, see §§
31.085,
31.086
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated, also
apply to, govern, and refer to matters contained in §§32.15 through 32.45 of
this chapter.
   (B)   The usage of the names Tippecanoe County Civil Defense, Tippecanoe
County Civil Defense and Emergency Management, and Tippecanoe County Emergency
Management Agency are in fact one in the same. The Tippecanoe County Civil
Defense, Tippecanoe County Civil Defense and Emergency Management, and
Tippecanoe County Emergency Management Agency names may be used interchangeably
and are one in the same.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in state law for
purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the presiding officer of the Board of Commissioners. The
presiding officer shall be considered as the regularly designated President of
the Board, except if he is absent or incapacitated, and the Board has a
regularly designated President Pro Tem, then the President Pro Tem shall be
considered as the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. If the President is absent or
incapacitated and there is no designated President Pro Tem, then the remaining
two Commissioners shall select among themselves one to be presiding officer in
the same manner as when an ordinary business meeting needs to be conducted in
the absence of the President. If both the President and another Commissioner
are absent or incapacitated, then the remaining Commissioner shall be
considered the presiding officer.
   COUNCIL. Unless clearly referring to the County Council, means the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council as established under §32.15 of this
chapter.
   DIRECTOR. Refers to the County Director of Emergency Management as
established and appointed pursuant to §32.17 of this chapter.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack, or other hostile action,
or from natural disaster, or from manmade disasters, which cannot be handled by
normal operating personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the execution of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily
responsible, for protection against and to minimize and repair injury and
damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action or by
natural disaster.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management including persons and private
agencies or government units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   MANMADE DISASTER. Any condition such as riots, strikes, insurrections or
other civil disturbances.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, tornado, blizzard, or other natural
cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE. 
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the Commissioner to
participate in emergency activities pursuant to §32.16; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into
pursuant to state law and §32.17 of this chapter.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Incidents such as severe fire, explosions, hazardous
material spills, radiological problems which are beyond the control of regular
forces.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.03 GENERAL INTENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
dispensable powers and procedure reasonably needed to prevent, cope with, or
make more tolerable emergency conditions. For this and all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
and shall be construed as intending to supplement and augment, and not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.04 STATUTORY POWERS; MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any
statutory powers of the County Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide
for the control of public disasters and other emergency situations under the
provision of state law.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers
of any incorporated municipality under state law to adopt and implement
emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such municipality.
However, pursuant to state law, such regulations and procedures as promulgated
by the municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the county emergency
regulations and procedures.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.15 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, there is established a County Emergency
Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the following individuals or
their designees, each of which shall serve for two year terms, as follows:
      (1)   The President of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   The President of the County Council;
      (3)   One member of the County Chamber of Commerce appointed by the Board
of County Commissioners;
      (4)   The Mayor of the City of Lafayette;
      (5)   The Mayor of the City of West Lafayette;
      (6)   One member appointed by the Board of County Commissioners
representing each of the northeast, southeast, southwest, and northwest
quadrants of the county, such quadrants being determined by using the County
Courthouse as the center of the county. Each member appointed for each
respective quadrant may be recommended by the various town boards located
within that respective quadrant, if applicable.
      (7)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county,
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the County.
      (8)   One representative of Purdue University, appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the County.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Recording
Secretary, and Vice-Recording Secretary. Elections shall be held in November of
each year.
   (C)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council shall exercise
general supervision and control over the emergency management and disaster
program of the county and shall select or cause to be selected, a County
Emergency Management Director, who shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of the emergency management program
in the county; shall be responsible to the Chairman of the Emergency Management
Advisory Council; and shall not hold any other local, county or state
government office.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly.
      (2)   Emergency meetings. When the Chairman, or in his or her absence the
Vice Chairman, is advised or determines an emergency exists, he or she may call
an emergency meeting of the Advisory Council to evaluate what recommendations
should be made to the County Commissioners. This emergency meeting may be
called without pubic notice and need not be held in a public place, however,
proper notice that such meeting took place must be made and the minutes of this
meeting must be made public. A quorum at this meeting shall be those members
present. In the event the nature of the emergency prevents travel to a meeting
place, the Chairman, or in his or her absence the Vice-Chairman, may poll
members by telephone. Proper notification that such telephone polling took
place and a synopsis of discussions must be made public.
(Ord. 2005-19-CM, passed 6-20-05)
§ 32.16 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any emergency
as defined in §32.02 of this chapter. The County Commissioners and Director of
Emergency Management shall be responsible for its organization, administration
and operation. The Department shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management appointed in accordance
with §32.17;
      (2)   A Deputy Director who shall be appointed by the Director with the
approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §32.20;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management and designated
by the County Commissioners to participate in the emergency management
activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for warning, communications,
radiological, health, emergency care, police, fire, and light rescue, public
education, and transportation, who may be appointed by the Director but which
positions shall be, so far as possible, additional duty assignments to existing
personnel; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department, who may be appointed by
the Director.
   (B)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor any person appointed to such position, without the authorization
of the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) and the making of sufficient
appropriations to pay such compensation. This provision does not give the
County Council any power of approval over particular candidates for any
positions, but refers only to their general statutory powers to determine the
numbers of offices, deputies, and employees of county departments, classify
positions, and adopt schedules of compensation. In addition, it is also the
intent of this section that emergency management and disaster assignments shall
be as nearly consistent with normal duty assignments as possible.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.17 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall be responsible for the appointment of
the Director. The appointment shall be made after the candidates for Director
have been interviewed by the County Emergency Management Advisory Council and
the County Emergency Management Advisory Council has made its recommendations
to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Qualifications for the Director will be determined by the Board of
Commissioners with input from the Advisory Council, provided that pursuant to
state law, the Director may hold no other local state, or federal office. The
appointment of the Director shall be on an annual basis unless the
Commissioners determine the Director to be incapable to fulfill his
responsibilities, which shall include dereliction of duties (including failure
to provide the State Emergency Management Director required annual reports and
documentation), malfeasance in office, incompetence, insubordination or
deliberate disregard of the directives of superior county or state authorities,
or physical or mental incapacity to perform his duties. In the event the Board
of Commissioners fail to make its annual appointment, the then serving Director
shall remain until such annual appointment is made.
   (C)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council and/or County Commissioners, shall be executive head of the Department
of Emergency Management and shall have responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operation of the emergency management organization,
including the following specific powers and duties:
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a county
emergency operating plan, and upon adoption shall be responsible for such
implementation, and revision of the plan as to maintain it on a current state
of readiness at all times. This plan shall include all major cities within the
county;
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate, within the county, all activities
for emergency management and shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all
other affected agencies, public and private;
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training for
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes;
      (5)   The Director may, with prior approval of the Advisory Council
Chairman, seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval of the Advisory
Council and then the approval or ratification of the Commissioners and to the
extent consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan and program) mutual-
aid arrangements with other public and private agencies for emergency
management purposes, and take all steps in accordance with such arrangements to
comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of an actual emergency
affecting the parties;
      (6)   The Director may, with the approval of the Advisory Council and
then the approval of the Commissioners, when such offer has been approved by
the Governor, accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use
of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
      (7)   The Director, with the approval of the Advisory Council and then
the approval of the Commissioners, may seek and accept from any person, firm or
corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds, or licenses, or privileges to use real estate or other
premises, to the county for emergency management purposes.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
   (D)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly provided
above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management director as provided under state law. In particular, but not any
limitation, the Director, through the Department of Emergency Management, may
perform or cause to be performed with respect to the county, any function
parallel or analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by the Indiana
Department of Emergency Management under state law.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.18 DEPUTY DIRECTOR.
   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §32.16(A)(2) of this
chapter, he shall during normal times, assist the Director in the performance
of his duties. During an emergency, the Deputy Director shall assist the
Director and fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence or inability of
the Director to serve.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.19 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   The powers and duties of the County Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in time of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for
the Department of Emergency Management;
   (B)   Adopt the emergency management and disaster plans; and
   (C)   Coordinate the emergency management activities and make assignments of
emergency
management activities to county forces in order to meet situations not covered
in the normal duties and powers of such agencies. In addition the County
Commissioners may take all necessary action to conduct tests of the emergency
management plans. Emergency management tests may be conducted at any time with
or without prior notification. All emergency tests conducted within the
boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with the Department of Emergency
Management and the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.20 QUALIFICATIONS OF VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before the person is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Not convicted of a felony; and
      (3)   Complete and have on file an application form.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, the applicant is
officially a member of the County Department of Emergency Management.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.21 DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION.
   In general, any paid employees of the Department of Emergency Management
shall have the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform
personnel policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees.
However, in the event that and during such times as the county emergency
management program may hereafter be directly supported by federal funding, the
Board of Commissioners shall adopt and implement a merit system applicable only
to paid employees of the Department other than the Director. Such merit system
shall conform to the standards and comply with other requirements as set forth
in CPG 1-3: Federal Assistance Handbook: Emergency Management Direction and
Control Programs (January, 1984) or subsequent editions thereof as may be in
effect at the time.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.22 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of the
budget. The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or
otherwise available to the Department of Emergency Management shall be
administered by the Director, subject to the approval of the County
Commissioners, in the same manner as provided by law or ordinance for other
county funds, except as otherwise provided under §32.39(A)(9) through (11) of
this chapter.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.23 FORMULATION, CONTENT AND ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   A county emergency operations plan shall be adopted by resolution of
the County Commissioners. In the preparation of this plan, as it pertains to
county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities,
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible. The following content shall be adopted:
      (1)   Basic Plan - to include:
         (a)   Purpose;
         (b)   Situation/assumption;
         (c)   Concept of operations;
         (d)   Assignment of responsibilities;
         (e)   Direction and control;
         (f)   Continuity and control;
         (g)   Administration and logistics;
         (h)   Execution.
      (2)   The following annexes will be required:
         (a)   Direction and control (warning and communications);
         (b)   Radiological protection;
         (c)   Law enforcement;
         (d)   Fire and rescue;
         (e)   Health and medical;
         (f)   Welfare;
         (g)   Shelter;
         (h)   Evacuation;
         (i)   Public works;
         (j)   Resource and supply.
   (B)   In addition, all participating emergency services who develop internal
plans shall coordinate those plans with the Department of Emergency Management
in order to include such plans within the county comprehensive plan. When
approved it shall be the duty of all county departments and agencies to perform
the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of
the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.24 COUNTYWIDE JURISDICTION.
   Except as provided by §32.04 of this chapter, the jurisdiction of the
Department of Emergency Management, and the jurisdiction and applicability of
the county’s comprehensive emergency management and disaster plan as adopted
pursuant to §32.23, and the exercise of any powers of the Chief Executive
Officer of the county and the County Commissioners under §§32.35 through 32.45
of this chapter, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective
in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS  AND PROCEDURES
§ 32.35 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter applies whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to state law;
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Chief Executive Officer of the county pursuant to state law and
§32.36 of this chapter;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §32.40 of this chapter; or
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §32.19 of this chapter, to
the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.36 PRE-DISASTER RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Department of Emergency Management’s primary pre-disaster responsibility
shall be the warning function as prescribed in the warning plan, and emergency
communications as prescribed in the communications plan for the entire county,
including all cities and towns.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.37 DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster affecting the
county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county may declare a local disaster
emergency pursuant to state law for any period not to exceed seven days. The
declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the disaster and the
conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas threatened and to
which the state of emergency applies (which may include the entire county or
only designated parts thereof). The declaration shall be filed in the offices
of the County Clerk, the County Auditor, and the clerk of any incorporated
municipality included in the declared disaster area and shall be announced or
disseminated to the general public by the best means available. However, the
declaration is not invalidated nor ineffective if any of the filing and
dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the prevailing
adverse circumstances. Such a declaration is not necessary if the Governor,
pursuant to state law, has already proclaimed a statewide or areas state of
emergency including the county.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.38 EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is
declared either by the Governor or by the Chief Executive Officer of the
county, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall convene a meeting of
the County Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative
functions as the situation may demand. If the Chief Executive Officer fails or
is unable to perform the above duty, the meeting shall be convened by some
other member of the Board of Commissioners, or by the Auditor or the
successively empowered county officers, in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8(a).
Any such meeting of the Commissioners shall automatically be deemed an
emergency meeting subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern
emergency meetings of County Commissioners, including relaxation of any
applicable notice requirements pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), and may be held
in any convenient and available place. The meeting shall continue without
adjournment for the duration of the disaster emergency, but may be recessed for
reasonable periods of time as necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
   (B)   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be
assembled for purposes of the meeting required under division (A) above of this
section, the Chief Executive Officer of the county shall be considered a
plenipotentiary representative of the Board and shall have all powers and may
take all actions of the full Board under §32.39(A)(2) through (13) of this
chapter until the assemblage of a quorum is possible.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.39 EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §32.38(A), the Commissioners may
exercise any of their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent
related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith. In addition, however,
they may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of state of emergency
declared by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to §32.37 to last more than
seven days if necessary;
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except for
a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor;
      (3)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county’s comprehensive emergency management and disaster control plan that
has been adopted pursuant to §32.23 of this chapter, or such several component
parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency;
      (4)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including personnel of the Department of Emergency Management,
participating emergency services, and any other forces at the disposal of the
Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes;
      (5)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Those
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Department of Emergency
Management;
      (6)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by state law and
subject to its provisions, command services from and/or requisition the use of
equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (7)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribed routes, modes of
transportation, and destinations for such evacuation;
      (8)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, etc., which would
govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during normal
times;
      (9)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine), any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be impractical
during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and carrying out
of emergency plans, or would be detrimental to actions which are necessary to
protect the public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in
accordance with subsection (10) below, the Commissioners may not suspend any
provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute;
      (10)   In the event of enemy attack, or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may also in accordance with
state law waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, and pertaining to
the appropriation and expenditure of public funds, the incurrence of
obligations, the performance of public works, the entering into contracts, the
employment of permanent or temporary workers or utilization of volunteer
workers, the rental of equipment, or the purchase and distribution of supplies,
materials and facilities;
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county officers, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions, and any unexpended and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated for the operation of such offices, departments, and
agencies and not dedicated by law to different and specified purposes may,
within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major object
classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such
special emergency duties and functions.
      (12)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county’s or state’s disaster plans, including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close business, or any
action that they deem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county’s previously adopted emergency operations plan. Any emergency
regulations adopted under this division shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the offices of
the County Clerk and County Auditor as required by state law, provided however,
that should such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation, such
regulations shall be effective and enforceable notwithstanding. Such regulation
shall have the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any police officer
in accordance with state law.
      (13)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
   (B)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order, and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution, but shall be
consistent with the subordinate to any actions, orders, or regulations made by
the Governor or a state agency implementing state emergency operations plans.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.40 EMERGENCY DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director to make recommendations and
advise the Board of Commissioners or the Chief Executive Officer on any actions
which would be necessary or desirable to take under §32.39 of this chapter in
the event of an emergency.
   (B)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor
is any person having the powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §32.37 of this chapter, the
Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of emergency even
though not officially declared and may, as his own judgment dictates, invoke,
implement, and carry out such provisions of the county’s adopted comprehensive
emergency management and disaster control plan as are necessary to cope with
the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare, and shall be construed
to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so to the extent not
specifically limited by statute or specifically limited herein, until such time
as a Chief Executive Officer becomes available. This section also applies to
the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy Director is required to
assume the duties of the Director, as provided by §32.18 of this chapter, in
the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the emergency. Assistance from
the Department of Emergency Management may be rendered without a declaration of
an emergency in order to assist local emergency services in time of need.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.41 COOPERATION OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the County Commissioners and the County Emergency Management
Director in all emergency management operations, and shall comply with all
orders of the County Commissioners and County Emergency Management Director
issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.42 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.43 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies as provided in §32.35, it shall be
unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency services, authorized
emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from implementing,
carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the Department
of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport himself to
be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the State of Indiana or any
of its political subdivisions, or any member of the county Department of
Emergency Management or a participating emergency service, is hereby empowered
to issue and serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing
an offense described above.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.44 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The county, its assigned personnel, and participating emergency services,
shall be held blameless and without responsibility for the loss of life or
injury to persons or the destruction of any property during an emergency
management test or emergency as performed under the direction of the Emergency
Management Director.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
§ 32.45 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by
the County Council.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM
§ 32.55 COMPOSITION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   There shall be a Tippecanoe County Hazardous Materials Response Team
overseen by the Department of Emergency Management. The Director of Emergency
Management or the Director’s designee shall be the Coordinator of the Hazardous
Materials Response Team. The Director’s designee, if any, must be an employee
of the Department of Emergency Management. The mission and purpose of the
Hazardous Materials Coordinator shall be to advise the Emergency Management
Director in establishing and implementing overall guidelines, standard
operating procedures and policies regarding the operation of the Hazardous
Materials Response Team.
   (B)   The Hazardous Materials Response Team shall consist of individuals who
have volunteered for membership on the Response Team subject to appointment by
the Coordinator and, if the Coordinator is a designee, the approval of the
Emergency Management Director. The individuals appointed to the Response Team
must have expertise, knowledge, and interest in responding to emergencies
created by dangerous, hazardous or toxic materials; as well as in substance
storage, handling, use, transportation, and disposal issues in the county.
Members of the Response Team shall serve at the pleasure of the Director of
Emergency Management.
   (C)   The volunteers on the Response Team shall not receive compensation
from the county for their volunteer work as part of the Response Team. However,
it is the intent of the county that, while responding to dangerous, hazardous,
or toxic materials incidents, that volunteers on the Response Team be regarded
as employees for purposes of general liability or equivalent insurance coverage
in effect for the county. This provision is not intended to create a private
right of action for any volunteer or third party nor is it intended for the
benefit of any third party.
   (D)   The Director or designee shall be compensated as employees of the
county, and the Director or designee’s duties with respect to the Response Team
shall be regarded as duties within the scope of their employment. Employees of
other agencies may assist the efforts of the Response Team as part of their
employment with such agency. When they do so, they shall be regarded as
employees of their respective agencies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section and without
limitation, the Department of Emergency Management may seek to recover from
responsible parties under § 32.51 the reasonable and necessary costs associated
with hazardous materials response work performed by the Director, the
Director’s designee, volunteers, or employees of other agencies all of whom
shall be regarded as “members” of the Hazardous Materials Response Team under §
32.56(C)(2).
   (F)   The Hazardous Materials Response Team shall respond to emergencies
involving dangerous, hazardous, flammable, combustible, radiological,
corrosive, or toxic materials, including emergencies involving storage,
handling, transportation, use and disposal of such substances. The Coordinator
of the Hazardous Materials Response Team shall be responsible for supervision
and management of the Response Team activities. The Team shall be “called out”
by the Coordinator of the Hazardous Materials Team, or the Coordinator’s
designee as need may arise. At the scene of any incident, the Coordinator or
designee shall be responsible for the activities of the Team and shall direct
and otherwise supervise its members.
   (G)   The Emergency Management Advisory Council established under §
32.15 shall advise the Board of Commissioners regarding the guidelines and
policies to be adopted, and after adoption, the operation and effectiveness of
the Hazardous Materials Response Team in controlling damage and injury from the
transportation, handling, use, storage or disposal of dangerous, hazardous or
toxic materials and substances in the county.
   (H)   The immunity provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-3 shall apply to the Hazardous
Materials Response Team to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Res. 98-31-CM, passed 7-6-98; Am. Ord. 2019-27-CM, passed 10-21-19)
§ 32.56 SYSTEM OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS AND EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. As used in this section, PERSON means an individual, partnership,
cooperative, firm, company, corporation, association, trust, estate, government
entity, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.
      RESPONSE. As used in this section, RESPONSE means any and all instances
when one or more members of the Hazardous Materials Response Team are called
out to the scene of an incident involving the presence or suspected presence of
dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substances.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. As used in this section, the RESPONSIBLE PARTY means a
person liable under division (B)(1) for reimbursement for costs and expenses
associated with operation of the Hazardous Materials Response Team.
      SUBSTANCES CONSIDERED AS DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC. The following
substances shall be regarded as dangerous, hazardous, or toxic for purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Substances listed in the latest edition of the U.S. Department
of Transportation Guidebook for Hazardous Material Incidents;
         (b)   Substances listed in the latest edition of Dangerous Properties
of Industrial Materials by H. Irving Sax and contain the terms dangerous,
hazardous or toxic in the THR (Summary Toxicity Statement), or the Acute
Toxicity Statement;
         (c)   Substances listed in the latest edition of the Condensed
Chemical Dictionary by Gessner G. Hauley and the words dangerous, hazardous, or
toxic are used in the “hazard” explanation used to categorize the substance;
         (d)   Substances listed in the latest edition of the Consolidated List
of Chemicals Subject to the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act
(EPCRA), Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA), and Section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act by the United States
Environmental Protection Act (EPA); or
         (e)   Substances which must be removed, transported, or neutralized by
the Response Team for the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the
county or the waters, plants, or wildlife therein.
   (B)   Billing procedure; payment.
      (1)   Any person that uses, stores, handles, transports, or disposes of
dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substances or materials or any substances or
materials reasonably believed to be dangerous, hazardous, or toxic shall be
liable to the county if such substances or materials are discharged or
otherwise used in a manner necessitating a response by the Hazardous Materials
Response Team. This includes responses to “hazardous materials emergencies” as
defined under I.C. 13-11-2-97. Such liability shall be without regard to fault
unless the fault is on the part of the county or the Hazardous Materials
Response Team. The liability shall be in the amount of the reasonable and
necessary costs and expenses incurred in connection with such response of the
Hazardous Materials Response Team pursuant to the provisions of this section.
If more than one person is liable under this section, the liability of such
persons to the county shall be joint and several.
      (2)   The Coordinator of the Hazardous Material Response Team shall
prepare and submit a billing to the responsible party for paying the costs and
expenses identified in this section. The Coordinator shall submit the bill to
the responsible party within 30 days following any reimbursable responses of
the Hazardous Materials Response Team. However, failure to submit the bill
within 30 days does not relieve the responsible party of responsibility under
this section.
      (3)   A person responsible for reimbursing the county under the
provisions of this section shall tender payment in satisfaction of the
aforementioned billing no later than 30 days following receipt of the billing
prepared and issued by the Coordinator of the Tippecanoe Department of
Emergency Management. Failure to tender full payment within thirty 30 days
shall subject the responsible party to a penalty equivalent to five percent of
the billed amount for each day the responsible party fails to tender full
payment.
      (4)   If a person objects to the aforementioned billing by the
Coordinator of the Department of Emergency Management, the responsible party
must file with the County Board of Commissioners a written objection to the
billed amount along with a tender of payment for those amounts not in dispute.
Upon receipt of such written objection, the County Board of Commissioners shall
place the matter on the agenda of its next regularly scheduled meeting and
shall allow the responsible party an opportunity to object to the billing. The
County Board of Commissioners shall then deliberate and issue a written opinion
concerning the appropriateness of the billed amount. If the responsible party
objects to the decision of the County Board of Commissioners, a petition
requesting judicial review of the decision of the Tippecanoe County Board of
Commissioners shall be filed with the Tippecanoe County Circuit Court no later
than 30 days from the date of the decision of the County Board of
Commissioners. The County Circuit Court Judge shall conduct a hearing on the
petition as expeditiously as is consistent with the Court’s calendar. The
decision of the Circuit Court Judge shall be final unless the responsible party
or the County Board of Commissioners appeal that decision pursuant to the
appellate procedure for appeal of any civil matter.
   (C)   Reimbursement cost. The responsible party shall reimburse the county
for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the response including,
without limitation:
      (1)   If the Tippecanoe County Hazardous Materials Response Team is
called to the scene of an accident, the responsible party shall reimburse the
county (at replacement cost) for any Hazardous Materials Response Team
equipment or supplies which are damaged, lost, spent, destroyed, rendered
irreparable, or “used up” in responding to or managing the incident.
      (2)   In addition to the reimbursement obligations contained in division
(C)(1) above, the responsible party shall be billed by the Coordinator of the
Department of Emergency Management at the rate of $70 per hour for each member,
including members employed or supplied by other local agencies, of the
Hazardous Materials Response Team who is active at the site.
      (3)   Costs for use of equipment that is not “used up” or otherwise
reimbursable under division (C)(1) shall be reimbursable at the rates set forth
in the most current Indiana Department of Homeland Security Notice 3 for
initial response and hourly response costs.
      (4)   Reasonable costs for any reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
that are not otherwise described by divisions (C)(1) to (C)(3).
   (D)   Out-of-county assessment. In the event that the Hazardous Materials
Response Team responds to an incident outside of the boundaries of the county,
the responsible party shall be billed the sum of $2,000 per incident response.
This charge shall be in addition to any and all charges for which the
responsible party may be held liable under division (C) of this section. The
provisions of division (B) of this section shall also be applicable to this
out-of-county assessment.
(Ord. 96-30-CM, passed 6-3-96; Am. Ord. 2019-27-CM, passed 10-21-19)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
32.43 shall be liable to a fine of $2,500. Such fine shall be subject, however,
to the discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 94-02-CM, passed 1-17-94)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
33.01   Personnel Policy Manual adopted by reference
   
33.02   Retirement of merit police employee
   
33.03   Tippecanoe County Sheriff’s Department deferred compensation plan
established
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policy manual for the county currently in effect is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in
full herein.
(Ord. - -, passed 8-11-80)
§ 33.02 RETIREMENT OF MERIT POLICE EMPLOYEE.
   When an eligible merit police employee of the County Police Department
retires after at least 20 years of service, he or she is authorized to retain
his or her standard service weapon (handgun) and receive a “retired” badge in
recognition of his or her service to the Department and the public. Upon his or
her retirement, the department shall issue to him or her an identification card
that gives his or her name and rank, signifies that he or she is retired, and
notes his or her authority to retain his or her service weapon.
(Ord. 92-08-CM, passed 4-20-92)
§ 33.03 TIPPECANOE COUNTY SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
ESTABLISHED.
   A deferred compensation plan for the Tippecanoe County Sheriff’s Department
(hereinafter “the Sheriff’s Department”) is hereby established to allow for the
voluntary participation of employees of the Sheriff’s Department; and
   (A)   The Department will use the deferred compensation plan established by
the county Sheriff’s Departments in Indiana known as the Indiana Sheriffs 457
(b) Plan (“the Plan”) and participate in the group trust arrangement
established by that deferred compensation plan (the “Trust”); and the Sheriff
is authorized to sign the adoption agreement to participate in the deferred
compensation plan.
   (B)   The County Auditor is authorized to make deductions from the pay of
employees of the Sheriff’s Department who voluntarily participate in the
deferred compensation plan and to deposit the deferrals in the Trust. The
Tippecanoe County Board of Commissioners also hereby authorize the Committee
made up of representatives of the Sheriff’s Departments participating in the
Plan (as determined by participating Sheriff’s Departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the Plan. It is understood that,
other than the incidental expenses related to collecting the employees’
deferrals and other minor administrative matters, there is to be no cost to or
contribution by the county to the Plan.
(Ord. 2008-25-CM, passed 11-17-08)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Purchasing Rules and Policies
   
34.01   Purchasing agency
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Restrictions on authority of purchasing agents
   
34.04   Services
   
34.05   Small purchases
   
34.06   Specifications
   
34.07   Request for specifications
   
34.08   Invitations for bids
   
34.09   Request for proposals
   
34.10   Publication of notices
   
34.11   Receiving offers
   
34.12   Offers, bids, proposals
   
34.13   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
34.14   Delay of opening of offers
   
34.15   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
34.16   Reserved
   
34.17   Modification and termination of contracts
   
34.18   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
34.19   Minority business/women’s business (MBE/WBE) participation
   
34.20   Credit card policies and procedures
   
34.21   Public-private agreements
Fees
   
34.25   Document fees
   
34.26   Reserved
   
34.27   Sheriff’s Department fee schedule
   
34.28   Reserved
   
34.29   Mantoux skin testing fee
   
34.30   Supplemental document recording fee
   
34.31   County Clerk fees
   
34.32   Fees for access to county computers
   
34.33   Fee for enhanced access services
   
34.34   Deposit required of petitioner seeking vacation of highway
   
34.35   Charges made by Treasurer
   
34.36   Processing fee for mobile home transfer and moving permits
   
34.37   Charges for returned checks
   
34.38   Coroner's Department fee schedule
   
34.39   Juvenile alternatives program fee schedule
   
34.40   Payment of community corrections programs’ fees by credit card
   
34.41   Bulk form access to County Recorder documents
Funds
   
34.45   County Misdemeanant Fund
   
34.46   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
34.47   Prosecutor’s Forfeiture Fund
   
34.48   Enhanced Access Fund
   
34.49   Enhanced Access Fund for Online Services
   
34.50   Highway Department Self-Insurance Fund
   
34.51   Law Enforcement Fund
   
34.52   Medical Care for Inmates Fund
   
34.53   Non-reverting operating fund for the Department of Parks and Recreation
   
34.54   Plat Book Fund real property endorsement fees
   
34.55   Road Project Revolving Fund
   
34.56   Self-Insurance Liability Fund for county jail inmates/prisoners
   
34.57   Commissioners Self-Insurance Fund
   
34.58   Sheriff’s Self-Insurance Fund
   
34.59   County Jail Expansion Construction Escrow Account
   
34.60   County Courthouse Security Fund
   
34.61   County Drainage Board Engineering Fee Fund
   
34.62   County Electronic Data Fund
   
34.621   Voting System Fund
   
34.63   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.631   Local Income Tax Rainy Day Fund
   
34.64   Health Department Educational Seminar Fund
   
34.65   Prosecutor's Non-Drug Forfeiture Fund
   
34.651   Opioids Settlement Fund
   
34.66   Sheriff's Donation Fund
   
34.67   Phase II Stormwater Fund
   
34.68   Identification Security Protection Fund
   
34.681   Commissioners Tax Certificate Sale Fund
   
34.682   Engineer Review Fund
   
34.683   Health Self-Insurance Rainy Day Fund
   
34.684   Alexander Ross Detention Fund
   
34.685   Hazard Warning Fund
   
34.686   Community Corrections Donation Fund
   
34.69   Berlovitz Detention Fund
   
34.691   Sheriff’s sale program and Fund
   
34.692   Sheriff’s Firearms Destruction Fund
   
34.693   Juvenile Probation Donation Fund
   
34.694   Juvenile Alternatives Donation Fund
   
34.695   Upper JN Kirkpatrick Detention Fund
   
34.696   Prosecutor’s Check Deferral Fund
   
34.697   Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) Conference Fund
   
34.698   Wind Energy Conversion System Fund
   
34.699   Found, Seized, and Unclaimed Money Fund
Taxation
   
34.70   Payment of property taxes in one installment in certain cases
   
34.71   Notification of delinquency
   
34.72   Lodging income tax
   
34.73   Lodging income tax collection and audit procedures
   
34.74   Reserved
   
34.75   Motor vehicle excise surtax; wheel tax
Internal Control Standards and Procedures
   
34.85   Standards adopted
   
34.86   Required training
   
34.87   Loss, shortage, or theft
County Investment Policy
   
34.95   Policy adopted
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control Fund, see § 90.12
PURCHASING RULES AND POLICIES
§ 34.01 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County hereby determines that
it is the purchasing agency for Tippecanoe County, and for the Tippecanoe
County Drainage Board.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates itself and its officers
and members to serve as purchasing agents for the county.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners designates the following persons to serve
as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each circuit, superior and county court judge;
      (3)   The Executive Director of the County Highway Department;
      (4)   The Tippecanoe County Sheriff; and
      (5)   Such county employees as are designated from time to time in
writing.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in I.C. 5-22-2 are incorporated herein and made a
part hereof by reference, including the following:
   PURCHASE. Includes buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire. The term
includes the following activities:
      (1)   Description of requirements.
      (2)   Solicitation or selection of sources.
      (3)   Preparation and award of contract.
      (4)   All phases of contract administration.
      (5)   All functions that pertain to purchasing.
   SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not
involving the delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or
other items that are merely incidental to the required performance.
   SUPPLIES. Any property. The term includes equipment, goods, and materials.
The term does not include an interest in real property.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.03 RESTRICTIONS ON AUTHORITY OF PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   Any purchase of supplies or services with an estimated cost of $50,000
or more must be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Any purchasing agent may make purchases of supplies and services with
an estimated cost of less than $50,000 without the prior approval of the Board
of Commissioners, provided however, that those purchases must otherwise comply
with these rules and applicable state law, and provided further that no
department may make a purchase which, together with other expenditures, exceeds
the budget for that department.
   (C)   The cost of a single purchase may not be divided into two or more
purchases for the purpose of avoiding this restriction on the purchasing
agent’s authority.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.04 SERVICES.
   A purchasing agent may purchase services in a manner consistent with the
requirements of I.C. 5-22-6. A purchase of services must be made with such
competition as is practicable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
§ 34.05 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchasing agents may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $50,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
   (B)   County purchasing agents are authorized to make small purchases by
means of credit cards.
   (C)   In consideration of the county’s purchasing policy defining small
purchases as those costing less than $50,000, the maximum credit limit
authorized for any such credit card shall be $50,000.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.06 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent shall prepare, issue, revise, maintain, and monitor
the use of specifications as required by I.C. 5-22-5-2.
   (B)   A specification must promote overall economy for the purposes intended
and encourage competition in satisfying the county’s needs.
   (C)   Each purchasing agent shall provide the Board of Commissioners with a
copy of the specifications prepared for each purchase of supplies or services.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall maintain an indexed file of
specifications prepared by its purchasing agents in accordance with I.C. 5-22-
5-4.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.07 REQUEST FOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   If a purchasing agent determines that development of specifications by the
purchasing agent for a purchase of supplies or services is not feasible, the
purchasing agent may issue a request for specifications in accordance with I.C.
5-22-5-5.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.08 INVITATIONS FOR BIDS.
   Each purchasing agent shall issue an invitation for bids in accordance with
I.C. 5-22-7 for the purchase of all supplies unless another purchasing method
is required or authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.09 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Subject to the restrictions on authority of purchasing agents set
forth in this subchapter, a purchasing agent may award a contract using the
procedure for solicitation of proposals set forth in I.C. 5-22-9.
   (B)   Each purchasing agent shall prepare and file with the Tippecanoe
County Auditor a register of proposals in accordance with I.C. 5-22-9-
4 whenever a request for proposals is issued by the purchasing agent.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.10 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lafayette Journal & Courier and
the Lafayette Leader. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of
notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
bids. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will
be opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lafayette Journal & Courier and
the Lafayette Leader. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of
notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Lafayette Journal &
Courier and the Lafayette Leader. The purchasing agent shall schedule the
publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation
and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least
one week apart. The second publication must occur at least seven days prior to
the date the proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(Ord. 98-33-CM, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.11 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for bids
must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in
response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of
the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (C)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the county’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(Ord. 98-33-CM, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.12 OFFERS, BIDS, PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(Ord. 98-33-CM, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.13 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.14 DELAY OF OPENING OF OFFERS.
   When the Board of Commissioners makes a written determination that it is in
the county’s best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated in the
solicitation. The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.15 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $50,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $50,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $50,000 and $150,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $150,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.16 RESERVED.
§ 34.17 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement of a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustment must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of county. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the county to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(Ord. 98-33-CM, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.18 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county
purchases and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.19 MINORITY BUSINESS/WOMEN’S BUSINESS (MBE/WBE) PARTICIPATION.
   With respect to purchases made with state or federal funds requiring MBE/MWE
participation solicitation pursuant to 40 CFR 31.36, the following six
affirmative steps shall be taken:
   (A)   Qualified small and minority businesses and women’s businesses will be
placed on solicitation lists;
   (B)   Small and minority businesses and women’s businesses will be solicited
whenever they are potential sources;
   (C)   Total requirements shall be divided, when economically feasible and
permitted by law, into smaller tasks or quantities to permit maximum
participation by small and minority and women’s business enterprises;
   (D)   Delivery schedules will be established, where the requirements permit,
so as to encourage participation by small and minority business and women’s
businesses;
   (E)   Services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, and the
Minority Business Development of Commerce, will be used to the extent they may
be available to facilitate compliance with this §
34.19; and
   (F)   The prime contractor, if subcontracts are to be let, will be required
to take the affirmative steps listed in divisions (A) through (E) of this
section.
(Ord. 2008-26-CM, passed 12-1-08)
§ 34.20 CREDIT CARD POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following policies and procedures shall govern the use of credit cards
and purchasing cards (“p-cards”) issued to the Tippecanoe County purchasing
agents. As used in this section, references to credit cards shall also be
regarded as applicable to p-cards.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County may from time to time
enter into agreements with vendors for the issuance of credit cards and
establishment of lines of credit in the name of Tippecanoe County. Purchasing
agents should not use credit cards other than those issued in the name of the
county to purchase supplies or services on behalf of the county. Use of a
personal credit card to purchase services and supplies for the county is
discouraged, but reimbursement for such use may be approved if the use was not
reasonably avoidable and other requirements of the public purchasing laws have
been satisfied.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may designate a Card Program Administrator
to assist with administrative duties such as ordering or cancelling cards,
monitoring transactions for compliance with card policies and procedures,
processing payment to credit card vendors, and or any other function related to
an approved card program. If no administrator has been designated, the
Commissioners’ office shall serve as the administrator.
   (C)   Use of credit cards is intended to facilitate small purchases,
emergency purchases, online-purchases, and other purchases which would be
unduly cumbersome without the use of a credit card. The credit cards may not be
used unless a sufficient appropriation is available for the purchase. A credit
card may not be used for personal expenditures or otherwise in a manner which
is inconsistent with public purchasing laws or Tippecanoe County policies (e.g.
Tippecanoe County Travel Policy).
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall determine, at the Board’s discretion,
which departments will be issued a credit card to keep with the department
head. Such department heads shall be responsible for the proper use of and
accounting for the card.
   (E)   Those departments not receiving a credit card may be permitted to use
a card provided by the Card Program Administrator to make purchases of goods
and services. For departments that have been issued a credit card, department
heads may authorize members of their department to use the department credit
card. Prior to using a card, each individual using the card must sign a
Cardholder Usage Agreement.
   (F)   The Card Administrator and each department issued a credit card shall
maintain a credit card user log. The log must include the following:
      (1)   The date an individual requests use of a credit card.
      (2)   The name of the individual and position requesting use of credit
card.
      (3)   Estimated amounts to be charged.
      (4)   Fund and account number to be charged.
      (5)   The date an individual returns the credit card.
   (G)   Credit cards must be returned to the Card Program Administrator or
Department Head as soon as possible, or by the “return date” established when
it is checked out.
   (H)   Itemized paid bills or receipts must be submitted to the Administrator
or, in the case of cards issued to a Department, the Department Head with the
claim for payment. Credit card statements or credit card slips are not
acceptable as documentation.
   (I)   Purchasing agents and their authorized agents will be personally
responsible for:
      (1)   Any charges not documented by a receipt.
      (2)   Any interest or penalties incurred by reason of late filing or
furnishing of supporting documentation.
(Res. 2011-37-CM, passed 10-17-11; Am. Ord. 2018-21-CM, passed 10-15-18)
§ 34.21 PUBLIC-PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The county wishes to have the discretion to use the procurement
methods set forth in I.C. 5-23 in those situations where such methods would be
advantageous to the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, being the legislative
body of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, hereby adopts by reference the provision of
I.C. 5-23 in their entirety as if set forth in full herein.
(Res. 2020-04-CM, passed 1-21-20)
FEES
§ 34.25 DOCUMENT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   There is now established a standard fee of $0.25 per order plus
$0.05 per side per page for 8-1/2 by 11 inch and 8-1/2 by 14 inch black and
white photo copies and $0.10 per side per page for 11 by 17 inch black and
white photo copies; and
      (2)   There is now established a standard fee of $0.25 per order plus
$0.10 per side per page for 8-1/2 by 11 inch and 8-1/2 by 14 inch color photo
copies and $0.15 per side per page for 11 by 17 inch color photo copies.
   (B)   There is now established a standard fee of $3.00 per page for
xerographic copies of township and district maps.
   (C)   There is now established a standard fee of $1.00 per page for
blueprint copies of township and district maps.
   (D)   There is now established a standard fee of $0.25 per order plus $0.25
per page for facsimile transmissions of documents.
   (E)   There in now established a fee of $1.00 for each certificate under
seal attached in authentication of a copy of any record, paper or transcript.
   (F)   Any request for delivery of photocopies by mail shall be accompanied
by a self-addressed envelope with sufficient postage affixed.
   (G)   The Clerk of the Court may collect any fee established by court order
for the copying of any record, paper or transcript.
   (H)   The Recorder may charge any fee permitted by statute.
   (I)   This section does not rescind any previous ordinance, states statute
or federal law whereby photocopy fees, facsimile transmission fees, or
certification fees have been established or could be established.
(Ord. 2000-54-CL, passed 8-8-00; Am. Ord. 2002-12-CL, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord.
2004-02-CL, passed 1-13-04)
§ 34.26 RESERVED.
§ 34.27 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule for duplication and provision of services is
adopted for the County Sheriff’s Department:
Service Fee
Service                                      Fee
Crash reports (including all pages of S#235) $8.00 per crash
Administration of the sale of real estate in $300.00
mortgage foreclosure proceedings
Searching and compiling or redacting         $2.00 per individual per request
incarceration information-uncertified
Searching and compiling or redacting         $10.00 per individual per request
incarceration information-certified
Fingerprinting services (other than police   $5.00
business)
Providing duplicates of:
Law enforcement recordings                   $150.00 each
   (I.C. 5-14-3-2(k))
3" x 5" photographs                          $2.50 each
   (not digitally stored)
5" x 7" photographs                          $5.00 each
   (not digitally stored)
8" x 8" or 8" x 10" photographs              $10.00 each
   (not digitally stored)
Video tape (VHS)                             $50.00 per tape
   (not law enforcement recordings)
Audio tape                                   $15.00 per tape
   (not law enforcement recordings)
Digitally stored images                      $25 per request
Notary services                              $2.00 per document
 
 
The fee charged for the reproduction of public documents in the possession of
the Sheriff’s Department and not otherwise specified by this section or other
law shall be the fee established by §
34.25 for the reproduction of similar documents by the county offices
generally.
 
(Ord. 2000-15-CL, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. 2006-01-CL, passed 2-14-06; Am. Ord.
2011-06-CL, passed 2-8-11; Am. Ord. 2016-15-CL, passed 8-9-16; Am. Ord. 2019-
17-CL, passed 7-9-19; Am. Ord. 2022-19-CL, passed 9-13-22)
§ 34.28 RESERVED.
§ 34.29 MANTOUX SKIN TESTING FEE.
   (A)   The fee established for Mantoux Skin Testing (tuberculosis screening)
shall be the greater of:
      (1)   The fee set forth in County Code §
112.20; or
      (2)   The actual cost of the skin test solution plus ten dollars, rounded
up to the nearest dollar; for the test which will be administered by epidermal
injection by a qualified health professional. The fee shall include the
evaluation (reading) of the test 72 hours later and a report of the reading. In
addition, there shall be an off-site TB administration fee of ten dollars and
an immunization administration fee of five dollars.
   (B)   No charge shall be made for tests performed pursuant to investigation
of reported active disease and no charge shall be made for tests performed in
the course of the immunization of infants and children.
(Ord. 94-14-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2004-27-CM, passed 8-2-04; 2011-09-CM,
passed 3-7-11; Am. Ord. 2019-20-CM, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord. 2023-05-CM, passed
4-3-23)
§ 34.30 SUPPLEMENTAL DOCUMENT RECORDING FEE.
   A supplemental fee for recording a document in the amount of $3 per document
shall be charged by the County Recorder’s office. All revenue received by the
Recorder pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the County Recorder’s
Records Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 95-29-CM, passed 6-5-95)
§ 34.31 COUNTY CLERK FEES.
   (A)   Checks for criminal charges.
      (1)   A fee of $15 shall be charged by the County Clerk for each name
checked by the Clerk to determine if it is contained in the lists of persons
charged with crimes in the courts of the county. This fee shall be charged only
for checks made by employees of the County Clerk, and does not apply to
searches of the county records by individuals using the computer terminals
available for use by the public.
      (2)   The County Clerk shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Clerk’s office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
      (3)   The fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash or by check or money order made payable to the County Treasurer and
delivered to the County Clerk.
      (4)   The Clerk shall deliver all such fees received to the Treasurer for
deposit in the County General Fund.
   (B)   ATM fees. The County Clerk, from time to time, receives vendor remits
related to the Automated Teller Machine in the Tippecanoe County Courthouse.
The Clerk shall deliver all fees received to the Treasurer for deposit in the
County General Fund.
   (C)   Sheriff’s sale orders.
      (1)   The County Clerk shall charge a fee of $7 for copying and
certifying a judgment ordering a Sheriff’s sale of real estate and preparing
the related order of sale.
      (2)   The Clerk shall deliver all fees received to the Treasurer. Of the
$7 fee, the Treasurer shall deposit $1, attributable to the Clerk’s performance
of certification duties, in the Clerk’s Records Perpetuation Account, and shall
deposit the remaining $6 in the County General Fund in the manner of document
fees.
   (D)   Overpayment. If a person in payment of a fee administered by the Clerk
tenders an amount as payment that exceeds the amount of the fee incurred, the
amount of the excess that exceeds $3 shall be refunded to the person making
payment. The Clerk may retain the amount of the excess payment up to and
including $3 as an administrative fee. Such retained overpayment shall be
deposited in the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund established under I.C. 33-37-
5-2.
(Ord. 95-31-CM, passed 6-19-95; Am. Ord. 2012-15-CM, passed 4-2-12)
§ 34.32 FEES FOR ACCESS TO COUNTY COMPUTERS.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee of $10 per month per password for Internet access, and $25
per month per password for dial-up access, shall be paid to the County Auditor
by each realtor, abstractor, attorney, or other person accessing the county
computer system.
      (2)   Such fees shall not be charged to those persons whose only access
to the county computer system is by the use of the terminals available for use
by the public.
   (B)   Deposits.
      (1)   Twelve dollars of each $25 received for such access to the county
computers shall be deposited in the Enhanced Access Fund for On-line Services,
and $13 shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
      (2)   Five dollars of each $10 monthly fee received for Internet access
to the county computers shall be deposited in the Enhanced Access Fund for
Online Services, and $5 thereof shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
   (C)   Method of payment. The fee shall be paid monthly, in advance, by check
payable to the County Treasurer.
   (D)   Posting. The County Auditor shall post the fee set forth in this
section in a prominent place in the county court house and the county office
building.
(Ord. 95-32-CM, passed 6-19-95; Am. Ord. 2002-37-CM, passed 10-7-02)
§ 34.33 FEE FOR ENHANCED ACCESS SERVICES.
   (A)   The County Recorder is authorized to enter into written agreements for
the provision of enhanced access services at a rate of $1 per page (one-sided,
8-1/2 by 14” or smaller) for all computer printouts.
   (B)   All funds received by the Recorder in respect to such enhanced access
agreements shall be deposited in the Recorder's Records Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 95-55-CM, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2008-12-CM, passed 7-7-08)
§ 34.34 DEPOSIT REQUIRED OF PETITIONER SEEKING VACATION OF HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No petition for the vacation of any highway in the county shall be
accepted with the County Auditor until such time as the petitioner seeking such
vacation files with the County Auditor a deposit of $100 to guarantee the
payment of all costs of such vacation.
   (B)   All costs for viewing, publication and any other expenses resulting
from such petition will be paid out of such deposit and after payment of all
the costs the balance remaining shall be repaid by the County Auditor to the
petitioner making such deposit.
(Ord. 80-24, passed 10-13-80)
§ 34.35 CHARGES MADE BY TREASURER.
   The following charges shall be made by the County Treasurer:
   (A)   For all duplicate tax bills: $1 each.
   (B)   For all checks, as defined by I.C. 26-1-3.1-104, including credit or
debit card or ACH transactions, which are returned to the Treasurer by the bank
upon which they are issued regardless of the reason for such return: $27.50
each.
   (C)   All funds received by the Treasurer for the charges made herein shall
be deposited in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 82-16, passed 9-7-82; Am. Ord. 2001-07-CM, passed 2-20-01; Am. Ord. 2004-
20-CM, passed 6-21-04)
§ 34.36 PROCESSING FEE FOR MOBILE HOME TRANSFER AND MOVING PERMITS.
   (A)   A fee of $10 shall be charged by the Tippecanoe County Treasurer for
each mobile home moving permit or transfer of title permit issued by the
Treasurer.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the County Treasurer’s Office where the fee schedule is
readily accessible to the public.
   (C)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash or by check or money order made payable and delivered to the County
Treasurer. The sum of $10 of each such fee collected shall be deposited in the
Tippecanoe County General Fund.
(Ord. 2001-45-CL, passed 12-11-01)
§ 34.37 CHARGES FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   The following charges shall be made by each department and office of the
county which receives negotiable instruments, including checks and credit cards
in exchange for the provision of goods and services:
   (A)   For all checks, as defined by I.C. 26-1-3.1-104, including credit or
debit card or ACH transactions, which are returned to such departments or
offices by the bank upon which they are issued regardless of the reason for
such return: $27.50 each.
   (B)   All funds received for the charges made herein shall be deposited in
the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2007-18-CM, passed 4-16-07)
§ 34.38 CORONER'S DEPARTMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule for duplication and provision of services is
adopted for the County Coroner’s Department.
 
Service                                 Fee
Use of autopsy room, consumable goods
and autopsy equipment by Indiana        $300 per autopsy
counties
Use of autopsy room, consumable goods
and autopsy equipment by organ donation $500 per autopsy
organizations
Diagnostic radiology                    Actual cost, subject to minimum of $100
                                        per autopsy
Evidence photography and/or collection
of evidence when referring county does  $25 per man-hour, subject to minimum of
not send evidence technician to         $100 per autopsy
autopsy/body examination
Diener/morgue assistant services,
including log-in and out of deceased    $25 per man-hour, subject to minimum of
and related documentation and           $50 per autopsy
assistance with autopsy
 
(Ord. 2013-06-CM, passed 2-19-13)
§ 34.39 JUVENILE ALTERNATIVES PROGRAM FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule is adopted for the Tippecanoe County Community
Corrections Department’s Juvenile Alternatives Programs:
 
Service                                                                     Fee
Participation in the Tippecanoe County Community Corrections Department’s
Juvenile Alternatives FOCUS (Families of Children Under Supervision)        $200
Program for families identified by the court as being in need of group,
individual and family therapy.
ART (Aggression Replacement Training) comprehensive intervention program
designed to teach adolescents to understand and replace aggression and      $50
antisocial behavior with positive alternatives.
Juvenile Alternatives Parenting group: Staying Connected With Your Teen     $25
Curriculum
Girls Circle support group for girls                                        $25
Boys Council support group for young men                                    $25
 
(Ord. 2009-25-CL, passed 11-10-09)
§ 34.40 PAYMENT OF COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAMS’ FEES BY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   All sums now or hereafter due the County of Tippecanoe for goods and
services provided to adult and juvenile participants in Tippecanoe County
Community Corrections programs may be paid by bank card or credit card.
   (B)   If there is a vendor transaction charge or discount fee, whether
billed to the county or charged directly to the county’s account with respect
to such credit card transaction, the county may collect from the person using
the card a credit card user fee for each such transaction, in an amount not to
exceed the highest transaction charge or discount fee charged to the county by
bank or credit card vendors during the most recent collection period.
   (C)   If the credit card user fees collected pursuant hereto are
insufficient to pay the total transaction charges or discount fees charged to
the county by bank or credit card vendors, then the remainder of such charges
shall be paid from the Project Income/User Fund subject to appropriation by the
County Council.
(Ord. 2012-35-CL, passed 11-13-12)
§ 34.41 BULK FORM ACCESS TO COUNTY RECORDER DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The definitions set forth in I.C. 36-2-7-10.1, including without
limitation the definitions of BULK FORM COPY, BULK FORM USER, and COPY are
hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   The County Recorder may use the services of a third-party designee to
provide bulk form copies to bulk form users under this section.
   (C)   The County Recorder or the Recorder's designee may provide bulk form
copies to a bulk user on a disk, tape, drum, any other medium of electronic
data storage or microfilm or by electronically transmitting the copies using an
electronic transfer process or any combination thereof. The decision as to the
manner of providing copies under this section shall be at the discretion of the
Recorder.
   (D)   To receive bulk form copies from the Recorder or the Recorder's
designee, a bulk form user must submit a written request that identifies the
requested copies with reasonable particularity.
   (E)   (1)   Prior to receiving bulk form copies, the bulk form user must
enter into a contract with the County Recorder and the Recorder's designee, as
applicable. The contract(s) must comply with the requirements of this section
and I.C. 36-2-7-10.1 and must require that the bulk form user agree not to:
         (a)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk form
user under this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents;
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents;
      (2)   If a bulk form user violates contracts entered into under this
section, the County Recorder and the Recorder's designee may terminate such
contracts and refuse subsequent bulk form copy requests under the conditions
set forth in I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(i).
   (F)   Except as permitted under I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), a bulk form user is
prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale, soliciting a
purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription service to, or
otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of bulk form copies
for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies are in bulk form
or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Having determined that the costs of producing bulk form copies exceeds
ten cents ($0.10) per page of a recorded document or per document for a copy of
the indices, the fee for producing bulk form copies shall be thirteen cents
($0.13) per page for a bulk form copy of a recorded document, including the
instrument's book and page, if applicable and thirteen cents ($0.13) per
recorded document for a copy of the indices used by the Recorder for finding,
retrieving, and viewing a recorded document. The revenue generated under this
section shall be deposited in the Records Perpetuation Fund, used in accordance
with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f), and otherwise comply with the requirements of I.C. 36-
2-7-10.1(f).
   (H)   In addition to the contractual remedies that the Recorder or the
Recorder's designee may have, a person who violates this section shall also be
subject to a civil fine of not more than $2,500 per violation.
(Ord. 2017-10-CM, passed 6-5-17)
FUNDS
§ 34.45 COUNTY MISDEMEANANT FUND.
   (A)   A County Corrections Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby elects to receive deposits from
Indiana Department of Corrections for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 99-07-CM, passed 3-1-99)
§ 34.46 CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   There is established a Cumulative Bridge Fund to provide funds for the cost
of construction, maintenance, and repair of bridges, approaches, and grade
separations, and for making county wide bridge inspections and safety ratings
of bridges in the county. The Board will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 8-16-
1 et seq. and I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq. The Cumulative Fund is subject to the
approval of the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
(Res. 99-17-CM, passed 4-5-99)
§ 34.47 PROSECUTOR’S FORFEITURE FUND.
   A Prosecutor’s Forfeiture Fund (formerly known as the “Drug Enforcement
Fund”) is hereby established and those monies derived from I.C. 34-24-1-4(d)(3)
(B) shall be placed in the fund pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1-4(3)(b) for those
purposes authorized by state law.
(Ord. 89-15-CM, passed 3-24-89; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
§ 34.48 ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Enhanced Access Fund is established. The fund
consists of fees paid under I.C. 5-14-3-8(h) in conjunction with a contract
with departments of Tippecanoe County government for enhanced access under I.C.
5-14-3-3.6. This fund is a dedicated fund with the following purposes:
      (1)   The replacement, improvement, and expansion of capital
expenditures;
      (2)   The reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing
enhanced access to public information.
   (B)   The County Building Commission may charge a reasonable fee for
enhanced access to its
records, which fee shall not exceed $4.50 per request plus $0.75 per page of
printout.
   (C)   Other departments of county government may charge a reasonable fee for
enhanced access to their records, subject to the approval of the County
Council.
(Ord. 2000-55-CL, passed 8-8-00)
§ 34.49 ENHANCED ACCESS FUND FOR ONLINE SERVICES.
   There is hereby established in the office of the County Auditor a fund
entitled Enhanced Access Fund for On-line Services.
(Ord. 95-32-CM, passed 6-19-95)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for access to county computers, see §
34.32
§ 34.50 HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT SELF-INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   An account shall be established to be known as the County Highway
Department Self-Insurance Fund which shall be independent and non-reverting.
Such fund shall be used solely for the payment of loss due to insured collision
claims normally covered by collision insurance up to a maximum of the fund
balance per claim. Deductible shall be $1,000 per loss.
   (B)   All funds recovered for losses paid out of the fund shall be paid into
the fund and not into the County Highway Fund. Motor Vehicle Highway Funds,
received by the County Highway Department for the purpose of funding self-
insurance of uninsured collision loss shall be paid into the fund.
(Ord. 88-41-CM, passed 12-5-88)
§ 34.51 LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   A Law Enforcement Fund is established and those monies derived from I.C. 34-
24-1-4 shall be placed in the fund pursuant to I.C. 34-24-1-4.
(Ord. 88-43-CM, passed 12-5-88; Am. Ord. 2021-02-CM, passed 3-1-21)
§ 34.52 MEDICAL CARE FOR INMATES FUND.
   (A)   This section shall be known and may be cited as the County Medical
Care for Inmates Fund.
   (B)   The purpose of the establishment of this fund shall be to comply with
I.C. 11-12-5-5.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person confined to the county jail
who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; or
         (d)   Any other health care related service;
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person's own medical care; or
      (3)   Is committed to the Department of Correction.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E), a person confined to the county
jail shall be required to make a co-payment in an amount of not more than $7
for each prescription handled, and not more than $15 for each provision of any
of the following services, pursuant to schedules of charges therefor from time
to time established by the County Sheriff:
      (1)   Medical care, including nurses or physician's visits;
      (2)   Dental care;
      (3)   Eye care; or
      (4)   Any other health care related service.
   (E)   A person confined to the county jail is not required to make the co-
payment under division (D) of this section if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person's commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person's commissary account
or trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail;
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or Jail
Administrator.
   (F)   Any money collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into
the County Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
(Ord. 2005-15-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 34.53 NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND
RECREATION.
   (A)   There is now established the Tippecanoe County Parks Department
special non-reverting operating fund from which expenditures may be made by
appropriation by the Tippecanoe County Board of Parks and Recreation for the
acquisition and repair of equipment for maintenance of park and recreation
facilities in the county.
   (B)   All fees and charges received by the Tippecanoe County Parks
Department for the use of park and recreation facilities be and the same shall
be deposited into the non-reverting operating fund for the uses and purposes
set forth herein.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-22, money from the special non-
reverting operating fund may be disbursed only upon approved claims allowed and
signed by the President and Secretary of the Tippecanoe County Park and
Recreation Board.
(Res. 99-23-CL, passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 2001-13-CL, passed 5-8-01)
§ 34.54 PLAT BOOK FUND REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEES.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-9-18(d) the Board of Commissioners hereby establish a
Plat Book Fund. The County Auditor is hereby authorized to collect a fee for
each real property endorsement made by the auditor in the amount of $10 for
each deed; or legal description of each parcel contained in the deed, for which
the auditor makes a real property endorsement, with respect to which a tax
identification number has been established. Such revenues collected are hereby
dedicated to the fund for the use of maintaining plat books, in traditional or
electronic format.
(Ord. 2005-42-CM, passed 11-7-05; Am. Ord. 2019-15-CM, passed 6-3-19)
§ 34.55 ROAD PROJECT REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non- reverting fund to be known
as the County Road Project Revolving Fund, to be maintained separate and apart
from all other funds of the county. Moneys in the fund shall never revert to
the General Fund.
   (B)   The fund consists of the following:
      (1)   Proceeds of the BANs;
      (2)   At the discretion of the Board of Commissioners, TIF collected in
the allocation area, as and to the extent authorized by the County
Redevelopment Commission;
      (3)   Appropriations made by the Council;
      (4)   Grants and gifts intended for deposit in the fund;
      (5)   Repayments of loans or other financial assistance;
      (6)   Proceeds from the sale of notes or bonds as provided under I.C. 5-
1-14;
      (7)   Any interest, premiums, gains or other earnings on the fund.
   (C)   Moneys in the fund shall be invested in the same manner as other
county funds.
   (D)   Moneys in the fund may be used for the following:
      (1)   To pay the costs of construction, engineering, design, right-of-
way, acquisition financing and incidental expenses in connection with arterial
road system and local county road projects in the county;
      (2)   To pay debt service on any bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued to pay the costs of arterial road system and local county road projects
in the county; and
      (3)   To pay lease rentals on any leases entered into for the
construction and acquisition of arterial road system and local county road
projects in the county.
   (E)   Moneys in the fund may be spent only upon an order of the Board of
Commissioners requesting such expenditures, and subject to appropriation by the
Council.
(Ord. 99-66-CM, passed 1-3-00)
§ 34.56 SELF-INSURANCE LIABILITY FUND FOR COUNTY JAIL INMATES/PRISONERS.
   A Self-Insurance Liability Fund for inmates/prisoners of the county jail is
hereby established for the purposes of funding rightful claims from inmate/
prisoners as to injuries suffered by and/or illnesses incurred by inmates/
prisoners in the county jail.
(Ord. 94-25-CL, passed 7-12-94)
§ 34.57 COMMISSIONERS SELF-INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be known as the
Commissioners Self- Insurance Fund (formerly referred to variously as the
“County Self-Insurance Fund,” “Self-Insurance Fund for Property Damage,” and
“Account Number 512-1) which shall be independent and non-reverting. Such fund
shall be used for reimbursement of policy deductibles and uninsured losses up
to a per claim maximum not to exceed the fund balance.
   (B)   All funds recovered for losses paid out of the fund shall be paid into
such fund and not into the County General Fund.
(Ord. 81-16, passed 12-14-81; Am. Ord. 83-3, passed 9-27-83; Am. Ord. 2017-05-
CM, passed 4-3-17)
§ 34.58 SHERIFF’S SELF-INSURANCE FUND.
   The County Self-Insurance Fund for the operation of the county jail,
Sheriff’s Department including but not limited to the Sheriff of the county and
Sheriff’s employees, County Commissioners, County Council, and all other
elected and appointed officials and employees including professional employees
(i.e., engineers, surveyors, lawyers, counselors, etc.) acting within the scope
of employment and acting on behalf of the county, shall be used solely for the
payment of losses due to claims from the operation of the county jail,
Sheriff’s Department including but not limited to the Sheriff of the county and
Sheriff’s employees, County Commissioners, County Council and all other elected
and appointed officials and employees including professional employees
(engineers, surveyors, lawyers, counselors, etc.) acting within the scope of
employment and acting on behalf of the county, up to a maximum of funding the
balance per claim.
(Ord. 24-CL-85, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 91-20-CM, passed 8-26-91; Am. Ord.
91-23-CL, passed 9-3-91)
§ 34.59 COUNTY JAIL EXPANSION CONSTRUCTION ESCROW ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting fund to be known
as the Tippecanoe County Jail Expansion Construction Escrow Account, to be
maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the county. Funds in the
account shall be deposited into the Escrow Deposit Account established by the
Escrow Agreement between the county and Bank One Trust Company, National
Association, which agreement is hereby approved and a copy thereof attached to
ordinance 2001-41-CM as Exhibit A. Moneys in the Fund and interest thereon
shall not revert to the County General Fund.
   (B)   The Fund consists of the following:
      (1)   Proceeds of the sale of the existing Tippecanoe County Law
Enforcement Facility (Jail) to the Tippecanoe County Governmental Building
Corporation;
      (2)   Appropriations made by the Council;
      (3)   Grants and gifts intended for deposit in the Fund; and
      (4)   Any interest, premiums, gains or other earnings on the Fund.
   (C)   The Escrow Agent shall apply the funds held in the Escrow Account to
the cost of renovating and equipping the building and the addition to the
Tippecanoe County Law Enforcement Facility Jail, upon the written request of
the Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the following items:
      (1)   Obligations incurred for labor and to contractors, builders and
materialmen in connection with the improvement of the existing jail facility
and construction of a portion of the addition;
      (2)   The cost of equipment for the building;
      (3)   Architects, engineers, construction managers and attorneys expenses
and fees; and
      (4)   All other incidental costs incurred in connection with the cost of
construction and equipping of the building.
(Ord. 2001-41-CM, passed 11-7-01)
§ 34.60 COUNTY COURTHOUSE SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a County Courthouse Security Fund, into
which moneys shall be deposited from time to time from the County General Fund,
from gifts, grants or any other source.
   (B)   It is further ordained that all late payment fees collected pursuant
to the General Order for Assessment of Fines and Late Fees for Traffic
Infraction Tickets, promulgated by Tippecanoe County Court No. 2 on December
18, 1998, shall be deposited by the County Auditor in the Courthouse Security
Fund.
   (C)    (1)   Moneys may be expended from this fund at the request of the
Board of Commissioners, subject to appropriation, for the provision and
maintenance of security at the County Courthouse, including the expenditure of
funds ordered by the Court in the Matter of Courthouse Security of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, pending in the Tippecanoe Circuit Court as Cause No. 79C01-
0012-MI-00043; and
      (2)   Late fees collected from defendants for the County Courthouse
Security Fund can also be used to provide funding for the support and
administration of county courts.
(Ord. 2002-01-CL, passed 1-15-02; Am. Ord. 2002-41-CL, passed 11-12-02)
§ 34.61 COUNTY DRAINAGE BOARD ENGINEERING FEE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the Office of County Auditor the County
Drainage Board Engineering Fee Fund to be funded with engineering review fees
paid by developers in accordance with the Drainage Code, and such other monies
as the County Council may from time to time appropriate.
   (B)   Monies in the fund may be expended at the direction of the County
Drainage Board and/or the County Surveyor for professional engineering review
of plans submitted to the Drainage Board for approval pursuant to the Drainage
Code.
(Res. 2002-04-CL, passed 1-15-02)
Cross-reference:
   Drainage Code, see §
155.01
§ 34.62 COUNTY ELECTRONIC DATA FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.3, the County Council hereby establishes the
County Electronic Data Fund, into which shall be deposited all fees charged
under § 31.123.
   (B)   All funds in the Electronic Data Fund shall be used only for the
purposes set out in I.C. 5-14-3-8.3, and shall be subject to appropriation by
the County Council.
(Ord. 2002-31-CM, passed 8-19-02)
§ 34.621 VOTING SYSTEM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Voting System Fund.
   (B)   The monies may be expended from such fund only for expenses related to
voting systems, including the acquisition, maintenance and administration of
those systems.
   (C)   Money in the fund shall consist of money appropriated by the
Tippecanoe County Council for deposit in the fund as well as gifts, grants and
donations intended for deposit in the fund.
   (D)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Res. 2019-17-CM, passed 8-5-19)
§ 34.63 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Rainy Day Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund may receive transfers of unused and unencumbered
funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5 in respect to funds raised by general or special tax
levies, supplemental distributions of county economic development income tax
and county option income tax pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-17.3, and such other
sources as the County Council may from time to time determine.
   (C)   The purpose of the Rainy Day Fund shall be to provide such
supplemental funding as may be determined reasonable and necessary by the
County Council for the uses and purposes for which funds from the county
economic development income, tax, county option income tax and county general
fund may otherwise be expended.
   (D)   Prior to appropriating funds from the Rainy Day Fund, the County
Council shall determine that sufficient funds are not otherwise available from
the county economic development income tax, county option income tax or county
general fund to provide funding for the proposed uses and purposes for which
such additional appropriation is requested.
   (E)   Distributions to the Rainy Day Fund from the county economic
development income tax and from the county option income tax shall be
appropriated and used only in the same manner and for such purposes as
certified distributions from such sources may otherwise be expended.
(Ord. 2004-06-CL, passed 2-10-04)
§ 34.631 LOCAL INCOME TAX RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe
County a separate fund to be known as the Local Income Tax Rainy Day Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be deposited into such fund from donations, transfers and
from such other sources as may be determined by the County Council from time to
time.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the Board of Commissioners
subject to appropriation by the Tippecanoe County Council, for the purposes for
which other local income tax funds may be expended.
   (D)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Res. 2020-33-CM, passed 12-7-20)
§ 34.64 HEALTH DEPARTMENT EDUCATIONAL SEMINAR FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Health Department Educational Seminar Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from gifts and donations for the support of Health
Department educational seminars shall be deposited into such Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such Fund by the County Health Department,
subject to appropriation by the County Council, only for the purpose of
providing materials for the County Health Department educational seminars such
as refreshments, training materials and other items for those attending such
seminars.
   (D)   Interest on such Fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Ord. 2004-19-CM, passed 6-21-04)
§ 34.65 PROSECUTOR'S NON-DRUG FORFEITURE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe
County a separate fund to be known as the Prosecutor's Non-Drug Forfeiture
Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from property forfeitures in non-drug related
criminal cases shall be deposited into such Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such Fund by the office of County
Prosecutor for the purpose of training, continuing education, equipment and
other expenditures in support of the County Prosecutor's office, subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Interest on such Fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Ord. 2004-22-CM, passed 6-21-04)
§ 34.651 OPIOIDS SETTLEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate, non-reverting fund to be known as the Opioids Settlement Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be deposited into such fund from opioids litigation or
settlements as defined in I.C. 4-16-15, money appropriated for deposit in the
fund, transfers from other county funds, donations, gifts, and from such other
sources as may be determined by the County Council from time to time.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund for those purposes permitted
under I.C. 4-16-15 including for programs of treatment, prevention, and care.
   (D)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the Tippecanoe County
General Fund.
(Res. 2022-16-CM, passed 6-6-22)
§ 34.66 SHERIFF'S DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe
County a separate fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Sheriff's Donation
Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from gifts and donations to the County Sheriff's
office shall be deposited into such Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such Fund by the office of the County
Sheriff, subject to appropriation by the County Council, only for the purpose
of acquisition of property and equipment for use of that office and to provide
additional funding for the provision of law enforcement services by the
Sheriff's office.
   (D)   Interest on such Fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Ord. 2005-13-CM, passed 3-21-05)
§ 34.67 PHASE II STORMWATER FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the County Auditor a separate
fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Phase II Stormwater Fund.
   (B)   All monies received for the purpose of implementation of the Phase II
to the County Surveyor's office shall be deposited into such fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the County Surveyor's office
for the purpose of implementation of Phase II.
   (D)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the County Phase II
Stormwater Fund.
(Res. 2005-19-CM, passed 6-6-05)
§ 34.68 IDENTIFICATION SECURITY PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the County Auditor a separate
fund to be known as the Identification Security Protection Fund.
   (B)   All monies collected by the County Recorder pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5
from persons recording documents shall be deposited into such fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the office of the County
Recorder only to purchase, upgrade, implement or maintain redacting technology
used in the office of the County Recorder, subject to appropriation by the
County Council.
   (D)   Money in such fund shall be retained therein and shall not revert to
the Tippecanoe County General Fund. However, interest earned on the fund shall
be deposited to the Tippecanoe County General Fund.
(Res. 2005-35-CM, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2015-27-CM, passed 12-21-15)
§ 34.681 COMMISSIONERS TAX CERTIFICATE SALE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Commissioners Tax Certificate Sale Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from the sale of tax sale certificates by the
Board of Commissioners shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (C)   Monies deposited to the Fund shall be disbursed therefrom in
accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-24-6.4 or as otherwise provided by law.
   (D)   Interest on the Fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Res. 2011-19-CM, passed 7-5-11)
§ 34.682 ENGINEER REVIEW FUND.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Surveyor’s office maintains a fund known as the
Engineer Review Fund.
   (B)   The purpose of the Fund is to hold monies receipted for the actual
cost incurred by the Drainage Board and the County Surveyor in respect to the
review of all developments preliminary plans, final plans and/or construction
plans by a licensed professional engineer.
   (C)   The Engineer Review Fund shall retain its own earned interest in the
Fund beginning on January 1, 2013.
(Res. 2012-21-CM, passed 10-1-12)
§ 34.683 HEALTH SELF-INSURANCE RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby crated in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County a
separate fund to be known as the Health Self-Insurance Rainy Day Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be deposited into the Fund from donations, transfers and
from such other sources as may be determined by the County Council from time to
time.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund by the Board of Commissioners
subject to appropriation by the County Council, for the purpose of providing
health insurance coverage and healthcare for the county’s employees, including
without limitation thereby, payment of insurance premiums, self-insured health
insurance expenses and operational costs for the county employee’s health
clinic.
(Res. 2013-23-CM, passed 8-5-13)
§ 34.684 ALEXANDER ROSS DETENTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Alexander Ross Detention Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the Tippecanoe County
Drainage Board and Tippecanoe County Surveyor for the purpose of improving and
maintaining the Alexander Ross Regional Detention Basin or other stormwater
detention facilities benefitting the Alexander Ross Regulated Drain watershed,
reimbursing the General Drain fund for maintenance and construction of such
Detention Basin or other facilities, or otherwise contributing to the
maintenance or improvement of drainage in Tippecanoe County.
   (C)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to and retained by the
Alexander Ross Detention Fund.
(Res. 2015-33-CM, passed 11-16-15)
§ 34.685 HAZARD WARNING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Hazard Warning Fund. The fund consists of
money allocated for warning sirens or other hazard warning systems under the
Tippecanoe County Economic Development Income Tax Capital Improvement Fund;
money appropriated by the Tippecanoe County Council for deposit in the fund;
and gifts, grants and donations intended for deposit in the fund.
   (B)   Monies may be expended from such fund, subject to appropriation by the
Tippecanoe County Council, for the purpose of acquiring, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, and implementing hazard warning systems for Tippecanoe
County.
   (C)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the County General Fund.
(Res. 2016-16-CM, passed 4-4-16)
§ 34.686 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Community Corrections
Donation Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be expended from such fund, subject to appropriation by the
Tippecanoe County Council, only for the purpose of improving Community
Corrections facilities, operations, and programs.
   (C)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the Tippecanoe County
General Fund.
(Res. 2016-29-CM, passed 11-7-16)
§ 34.69 BERLOVITZ DETENTION FUND.
   (A)   The Berlovitz Detention Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   Interest earned on funds held in the fund shall be retained in such
fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the County Drainage Board and
County Surveyor for the purpose of constructing and maintaining regional
stormwater detention facilities benefitting the Julius Berlovitz Regulated
Drain watershed.
(Res. 2006-10-CM, passed 3-6-06)
§ 34.691 SHERIFF’S SALE PROGRAM AND FUND.
   (A)   The Commissioners hereby establish and approve the Sheriff’s sale
program to provide the procedure for the Sheriff to contract for those
administrative, technical, clerical and related services that are reasonable
and appropriate for the Sheriff to effectively prepare for, manage and
implement foreclosure sales.
   (B)   The Commissioners hereby establish a fund to be titled the Sheriff
Sale Fund into which all collections of foreclosure costs fees, as hereafter
defined, shall be deposited and from which the appropriate expenses of the
Sheriff’s sale program shall be appropriated and paid. The Sheriff’s Sale Fund
shall be a non-reverting fund to be used only for the purpose set forth herein
and shall not revert to the County General Fund at year end.
   (C)   The Sheriff is authorized to negotiate and execute a contract with a
provider to obtain administrative, technical, clerical and related services
(the Sheriff sale services) in order for the Sheriff to conduct the Sheriff’s
sale program.
   (D)   The Sheriff sale services contract shall provide for the delivery of
services by a contractor (the contractor) in compliance with all applicable
statutory provisions for the conduct of foreclosure sale proceedings and the
Sheriff’s sale program. The Sheriff’s sale services contract shall also provide
for the payment of a fee, not to exceed the amount set forth in the County Code
§
34.27, Sheriff’s Department fee schedule for each cause number schedules in the
Sheriff’s sale program, to the contract for such services.
   (E)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to charge a fee for the amount set
forth in the County Code §
34.27, Sheriff’s Department fee schedule per cause number of property in the
Sheriff’s sale program (the foreclosure costs fees) and to deposit the
foreclosure costs fees collected by or on behalf of the Sheriff in the Sheriff
Sale Fund.
   (F)   The foreclosure costs fee shall be payable at the time of filing the
practice under I.C. 32-29-7-3(b), which shall be a charge for the Sheriff’s
sale in addition to other statutory costs and fees.
   (G)   The Sheriff’s sale program contract shall provide for a complete and
accurate accounting of all Sheriff sale program proceeds and compliance with
any reporting or record requirements as set forth by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts.
(Ord. 2011-05-CM, passed 2-7-11)
§ 34.692 SHERIFF’S FIREARMS DESTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe
County a separate fund to be known as the Sheriff’s Firearms Destruction Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from contracts for the destruction of firearms by
the county Sheriff’s Department shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund by the county Sheriff’s
Department, subject to appropriation by the County Council, only for the
purpose of purchasing equipment for and training county Sheriff’s Department
officers.
(Res. 2011-13-CL, passed 5-10-11)
§ 34.693 JUVENILE PROBATION DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Juvenile Probation
Donation Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from donors which are designated for use of the
Tippecanoe County Juvenile Probation Program shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund by the Tippecanoe County
Probation Department, subject to appropriation by the County Council, only for
the purpose of operating the Tippecanoe County Juvenile Probation Program.
(Res. 2011-14-CM, passed 6-6-11)
§ 34.694 JUVENILE ALTERNATIVES DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Juvenile Alternatives
Donation Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from donors which are designated for use of the
Tippecanoe County Juvenile Alternatives Program shall be deposited into the
Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund, subject to appropriation by the
County Council, only for the purpose of operating the Tippecanoe County
Juvenile Alternatives Program.
(Res. 2011-15-CM, passed 6-6-11)
§ 34.695 UPPER JN KIRKPATRICK DETENTION FUND.
   (A)   The Upper JN Kirkpatrick Detention Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   Interest earned on funds held in the fund shall be retained in such
fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the County Drainage Board and
County Surveyor for the purpose of constructing and maintaining regional
stormwater detention facilities benefitting the Upper JN Kirkpatrick Regulated
Drain watershed.
(Res. 2006-11-CM, passed 3-6-06)
§ 34.696 PROSECUTOR’S CHECK DEFERRAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Tippecanoe County Prosecutor’s Check
Deferral Fund.
   (B)   All monies received by the Tippecanoe Prosecutor’s office from the
Prosecutor’s Check Deception Program shall be received and deposited in the
Prosecutor’s Check Deferral Fund established in the office of Tippecanoe County
Auditor. The Prosecutor’s Check Deferral Fund shall be used for costs
associated with the general expenses of the Tippecanoe County Prosecutor’s
office at the discretion of the Tippecanoe County Prosecuting Attorney and
subject to appropriation by the Tippecanoe County Council. The Prosecutor’s
Check Deferral Fund shall remain in existence and remain perpetual in its terms
until amended or terminated by subsequent ordinance enacted by the Tippecanoe
Board of Commissioners. Monies collected shall remain in the Prosecutor’s Check
Deferral Fund and shall not revert to the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2008-17-CM, passed 10-6-08)
§ 34.697 METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION (MPO) CONFERENCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)
Conference Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from conference registrants, vendors, and other
public and private entities, including certain federal MPO PL Funds, shall be
deposited into the Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from the Fund by the Area Plan Commission of
Tippecanoe County, subject to appropriation by the Tippecanoe County Council,
only for the purpose of hosting of the conference, including without limitation
thereby lodging, food and beverages, materials, supplies, transportation,
speaker fees and honoraria, subject to any restrictions which may be imposed by
law on the use of federal MPO PL Funds.
   (D)   Interest on the Fund shall be deposited to the Tippecanoe County
General Fund, subject to any restrictions which may be imposed by law on the
use of federal MPO PL Funds.
(Res. 2009-16-CM, passed 5-18-09)
§ 34.698 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Wind Energy Conversion System Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from wind energy conversion system (WECS)
construction and operating permit fees shall be deposited into such fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such fund by the office of the Tippecanoe
County Building Commissioner, subject to appropriation by the Tippecanoe County
Council, only for the purpose of verifying compliance with the Tippecanoe
County Wind Energy Conversion System Ordinance and responding to the impact of
wind energy conversion systems on county roads, drainage systems and other
infrastructure.
(Res. 2010-15-CM, passed 9-7-10)
§ 34.699 FOUND, SEIZED, AND UNCLAIMED MONEY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Found, Seized, and Unclaimed Money Fund.
   (B)   Monies may be expended from such fund, subject to appropriation by the
Tippecanoe County Council, for the purpose of returning funds to their rightful
owners, for the purpose of complying with court orders regarding seized and
other funds, for the purpose of complying with state law concerning disposition
of unclaimed funds, and for the purpose of remitting to other County funds such
monies or portions thereof to which the County may be entitled.
   (C)   Interest on such fund shall be deposited to the County General Fund.
(Res. 2015-30-CM, passed 10-5-15)
TAXATION
§ 34.70 PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAXES IN ONE INSTALLMENT IN CERTAIN CASES.
   (A)   Under the provisions of Public Law No. 57 of the Acts of the General
Assembly of the State of Indiana for 1986 the County Council does hereby
require taxpayers to make payment for real and personal property taxes
including mobile home assessments in one installment on May 10 of each year
providing the total tax liability of such property is less than $25.
   (B)   The County Treasurer is empowered to prepare the necessary documents
and appropriate notices which will advise taxpayers of their requirement to pay
such tax in one installment on May 10 of each year.
(Ord. 86-12-CL, passed 6-10-86)
§ 34.71 NOTIFICATION OF DELINQUENCY.
   The County Treasurer is directed to give written notification by regular
mail and notification by publication in the local newspapers to those persons
or entities that are delinquent as of the previous year’s November installment
or earlier installments in the payment of taxes on personal property.
(Ord. 95-51-CM, passed 10-2-95)
§ 34.72 LODGING INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-7-6, the County Council designates the County
Treasurer as the collector and reporter of the Innkeepers Tax collected in the
county.
   (B)   Each person engaged in the business of renting or furnishing, for
periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations in
any commercial hotel, motel, inn, university memorial union, university
residence hall, tourist camp or tourist cabin, located in the county, shall be
required that the Innkeeper’s Tax, imposed at the rate of 5% on the gross
income derived from lodging income only, be paid monthly to the County
Treasurer and that the tax be reported on forms approved by the County
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Innkeeper’s Tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer not more
than 20 days after the end of the month the Innkeeper’s Tax is collected. If a
person fails to file a return, or pay the full amount of the Innkeeper’s Tax
due from such person on or before the due date for such return or payment, the
person shall be subject to a penalty of:
      (1)   Ten percent of:
         (a)   The full amount of the tax due if the person failed to file the
returns;
         (b)   The amount of the tax not paid if the person filed the return
but failed to pay the full amount shown on the return.
      (2)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the unpaid balance of such
tax and penalty until paid in full.
(‘82 Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 78-10, passed 4-11-78; Am. Ord. 86-16-CL, passed 9-1-
86; Am. Ord. 87-32-CL, passed 10-13-87; Am. Ord. 2001-44-CL, passed 12-11-01)
§ 34.73 LODGING INCOME TAX COLLECTION AND AUDIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Filing of monthly reports and payment of tax.
      (1)   The Treasurer may create forms for use by taxpayers for filing and
collection of the Innkeeper’s Tax.
      (2)   Lodging facilities obligated to collect the Innkeeper’s Tax, shall
file a report with the Treasurer each month, along with payment of any
Innkeeper’s Tax.
      (3)   A monthly report is due from any lodging facility covered by the
Innkeeper’s Tax law even if no Innkeeper’s Tax has been collected in that
previous calendar month.
      (4)   An Innkeeper’s Tax monthly report and payment of any tax shall be
considered timely filed if mailed to the Treasurer in an envelope, with first
class U.S. mail postage affixed thereto, postmarked on or before the twentieth
day of the month. The Treasurer shall also accept monthly reports and any
payments at the Treasurer’s Office.
      (5)   If the twentieth day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, the Innkeeper’s Tax monthly report and payment of tax shall be
submitted by the next following business day.
      (6)   Any monthly reports submitted after the due date must include a
penalty calculated at 10% of the Innkeeper’s Tax paid or to be paid, without
prorating for the number of days that the monthly report is overdue.
   (B)   Audit of returns and payments.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-7-6 which provides that the Treasurer has the
same rights and powers with respect to collecting the Innkeeper’s Tax as does
the Department of State Revenue, the Treasurer is authorized to conduct audits
and investigations of taxpayers concerning collection and payment of
Innkeeper’s Tax. Without limitation thereby, the Treasurer may examine the
books, records, papers, or other data bearing on the correctness of Innkeeper’s
Tax returns, including those pertinent records of third parties handling funds
for the credit of, or acting as an agent for, any lodging facility subject to
the Innkeeper’s Tax.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-3-12, the Treasurer has concurrent
jurisdiction with the Indiana Department of Revenue to investigate and audit
Innkeeper’s Tax returns and reports; further, pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-3-12(h)
(3), at the discretion of the Treasurer, the cost of the audit of Innkeeper’s
Tax may be charged or assessed against the lodging facility audited.
      (3)   After completion of the audit, the results of the audit will be
provided to the lodging facility by the audit firm or Treasurer.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the audit results, the Treasurer shall either:
         (a)   Remit to the lodging facility the amount of Innkeeper’s Tax
overpaid; or
         (b)   Send a statement to the lodging facility for the amount of
Innkeeper’s Tax due, requesting payment within 30 business days of the date of
the statement.
      (5)   The Treasurer may retain accountants or investigators for purposes
of conducting audits of lodging facilities subject to the Innkeeper’s Tax; the
Treasurer may retain legal counsel for purposes of the bringing of enforcement
actions for collection of the Innkeeper’s Tax and cost thereof.
(Ord. 2010-23-CL, passed 12-14-10)
§ 34.74 RESERVED.
§ 34.75 MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE SURTAX; WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   All passenger vehicles, motorcycles, motor driven cycles, and trucks
with a declared gross weight of less than 11,000 pounds registered in the
county, shall be subject to an annual license excise surtax of $20, all in
accordance with the provisions of the Excise Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-4 et seq. The
County Treasurer shall deposit revenue received from the annual license excise
surtax into a fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Surtax Fund and shall
allocate and distribute the Fund in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-4 et seq.
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2005, the following classes of vehicles,
registered in the county, shall be subject to an annual wheel tax as set forth
below, in accordance with the provisions of the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-5 et
seq. The County Treasurer shall deposit revenue received from the wheel tax
into a fund to be known as the Tippecanoe County Wheel Tax Fund and shall
allocate and distribute the Fund in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-5 et seq.
Vehicle Classification         Annual Wheel Tax
Buses                     $20.00
Recreation vehicles               20.00
Semi trailers                  25.00
Tractors                  40.00
Light trailers under 12,000 lbs.         5.00
Heavy trailers more than 12,000 lbs.         20.00
Light trucks between 11,000
and 26,000 lbs.               25.00
Heavy trucks more than 26,000 lbs.         40.00
   (C)   The definitions set forth in I.C. 6-3.5- 4 et seq. shall apply to this
section.
   (D)   This section may be rescinded and the rates set forth herein may be
decreased or increased only in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-4 et seq.
   (E)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to send a copy of this section
to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles as required by I.C. 6- 3.5-
4 et seq.
(Ord. 2004-16-CL, passed 6-1-04; Am. Ord. 2014-21-CL, passed 12-9-14)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
AND PROCEDURES
§ 34.85 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   Tippecanoe County hereby adopts the standards and procedures developed by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts under I.C. 5-11-127(e), the “Uniform
Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions”.
(Res. 2016-19-CM, passed 5-16-16)
§ 34.86 REQUIRED TRAINING.
   Each officer or employee of Tippecanoe County whose official duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to
funds that belong to the federal government, state government, a political
subdivision, or another governmental entity must undergo training in the
standards and procedures developed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts under
I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) and adopted by Tippecanoe County.
(Res. 2016-19-CM, passed 5-16-16)
§ 34.87 LOSS, SHORTAGE, OR THEFT.
   A loss, shortage, or theft of cash or other asset belonging to Tippecanoe
County in an amount over $500 shall be deemed “material” for the purposes of
I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) and reported to the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(Res. 2016-19-CM, passed 5-16-16)
COUNTY INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 34.95 POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)    The County Council of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, hereby adopts the
Tippecanoe County Investment Policy attached to the resolution codified herein
as Exhibit A, and approves the investment of Tippecanoe County public funds by
the Tippecanoe County Treasurer in investments lasting more than two years and
not more than five years, so long as the total amount of such investments
outstanding does not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested
by Tippecanoe County, including balances in transaction accounts.
   (B)   This ordinance and the authority to make investments lasting more than
two years and not more than five years shall expire on January 16, 2025, in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7(a)(6).
(Ord. 2016-19-CL, passed 10-11-16; Am. Res. 2020-32-CL, passed 12-8-20)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTION DISTRICTS
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Commissioner districts
   
35.03   Council districts
   
35.04   Precinct judges to exercise duties of election sheriffs
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish County Commissioner and Council
election districts.
(‘82 Code, § 1-3-1) (Am. Ord. 2011-31-CM, passed 12-28-11)
§ 35.02 COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The County Executive shall divide the county into three districts that
are composed of contiguous territory and are reasonably compact. The Executive
may not divide precincts, and may divide townships only when a division is
clearly necessary to accomplish redistricting. If it is necessary to do so the
County Auditor shall call a special meeting of the Executive to establish or
revise districts.
(I.C. 36-2-2-4)
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4(a), the county shall be divided into the
following County Commissioner election districts:
      (1)   District I. This district shall consist of Fairfield Township
Precincts 1 through 22 inclusive, and 25, Tippecanoe Township Precincts 2
through 6 inclusive, Wabash Township Precincts 2 through 4 inclusive, 10, 11,
13, and 14.
      (2)   District II. This district shall consist of Jackson Township
Precinct 1; Randolph Township Precinct 1; Shelby Township Precinct 1 and 2;
Tippecanoe Township Precinct 1; Union Township Precinct 1; Wabash Township
Precinct 1, 5 through 9 inclusive, 12, 15 through 29 inclusive; and Wayne
Township Precinct 1.
      (3)   District III. This district shall consist of Fairfield Township
Precincts 3, 23, 24, 26, and 27; Lauramie Township Precincts 1 and 2; Perry
Township Precincts 1 through 5 inclusive; Sheffield Township Precincts 1
through 3 inclusive; Washington Township Precincts 1 and 2; and Wea Township
Precincts 1 through 17, inclusive.
   (C)   Precinct maps adopted by reference. The Tippecanoe County Commissioner
Election District Maps reflecting the foregoing County Commissioner election
districts are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same
as if set forth in full herein. The Tippecanoe County Commissioner Election
District Maps are on file in the office of the County Area Plan Commission and
two copies of the Tippecanoe County Commissioner Election District Maps are on
file in the office of the County Auditor for public inspection during regular
office hours. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-2-4(h), copies of the County Commissioner
Election District Maps shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court
within 30 days of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 1-3-2) (Am. Ord. 91-34-CM, passed 12-19-91; Am. Ord. 2001-47-CM,
passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 2002-11-CM, passed 2-4-02; Am. Ord. 2011-31-CM,
passed 12-28-11; Am. Ord. 2021-34-CM, passed 12-28-21)
§ 35.03 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The County Executive shall, by ordinance, divide the county into four
contiguous, single-member districts that comply with division (B) below. The
Executive may not divide precincts when redistricting. If it is necessary to do
so, the County Auditor shall call a special meeting of the Executive to
establish or revise districts. One member of the fiscal body shall be elected
by the voters of each of the four districts. Three at-large members of the
fiscal body shall be elected by the voters of the whole county.
   (B)   Single member districts established under division (A) above must:
      (1)   Be compact, subject only to natural boundary lines (such as
railroads, major highways, rivers, creeks, parks and major industrial
complexes);
      (2)   Not cross precinct boundary lines;
      (3)   Contain, as nearly as possible, equal population; and
      (4)   Include whole townships, except when a division is clearly
necessary to accomplish redistricting under this section.
   (C)   A division under division (A) shall be made:
      (1)   In 2001 and every ten years after that; and
      (2)   When the County Executive adopts an order declaring a county
boundary to be changed under I.C. 36-2-1-2.
   (D)   A division under division (A) above may also be made in any odd-
numbered year not described in division (C).
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4(a) and (d), the county shall be divided into
the following County Council election districts:
      (1)   District I. This district shall consist of Fairfield Township
Precincts 1 through 20 inclusive, 22 through 24 inclusive, and 27.
      (2)   District II. This district shall consist of Jackson Township
Precinct 1; Perry Township Precincts 1 through 5 inclusive; Randolph Township
Precinct 1; Shelby Township Precincts 1 and 2; Tippecanoe Township Precincts 1
through 6 inclusive; Union Township Precinct 1;Wabash Township Precincts 1, 4,
5, 6, 15 through 20 inclusive; Washington Township Precincts 1 and 2; and Wayne
Township Precinct 1.
      (3)   District III. This district shall consist of Fairfield Township
Precincts 21, 25 and 26; Lauramie Township Precincts 1 and 2; Sheffield
Township Precincts 1 through 3 inclusive; and Wea Township Precincts 1 through
17 inclusive.
      (4)   District IV. This district shall consist of Wabash Township
Precincts 2, 3, 7 through 14 inclusive, and 21 through 29 inclusive.
   (J)   Precinct maps adopted by reference. The Tippecanoe County Council
Election District Maps reflecting the foregoing County Council election
districts are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same
as if set forth in full herein. The Tippecanoe County Council Election District
Maps are on file in the office of the County Area Plan Commission and two
copies of the Tippecanoe County Council Election District Maps are on file in
the office of the County Auditor for public inspection during regular office
hours. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-3-4(h), copies of the County Council Election
District Maps shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court within 30 days
of this section.
(‘82 Code, § 1-3-3) (Am. Ord. 91-35-CM, passed 12-19-91; Am. Ord. 2001-47-CM,
passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 2002-11-CM, passed 2-4-02; Am. Ord. 2011-31-CM,
passed 12-28-11; Am. Ord. 2021-34-CM, passed 12-28-21; Am. Res. 2022-07-CM,
passed 2-7-22)
§ 35.04 PRECINCT JUDGES TO EXERCISE DUTIES OF ELECTION SHERIFFS.
   The judges of each of the following precincts located in Tippecanoe County,
Indiana, shall perform the duties and have the rights of the election sheriffs
in each of the named precincts.
   (A)   Fairfield Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (B)   Jackson Township: Precinct (insert precincts).
   (C)   Lauramie Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (D)   Perry Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (E)   Randolph Township: Precinct (insert precincts).
   (F)   Sheffield Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (G)   Shelby Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (H)   Tippecanoe Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (I)   Union Township: Precinct (insert precincts).
   (J)   Wabash Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (K)   Washington Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
   (L)   Wayne Township: Precinct (insert precincts).
   (M)   Wea Township: Precincts (insert precincts).
(Ord. 95-33-CM, passed 7-3-95; Am. Ord. 2011-31-CM, passed 12-28-11)
CHAPTER 36: ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
36.01   Policies and procedures
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Restrictions on employment of relatives
   
36.04   Exclusions and exceptions
   
36.05   Restrictions on contracting practices
§ 36.01 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The policies and procedures set forth herein shall govern the employment of
relatives, contracts for the procurement of goods and services with relatives,
and contracts for public works with relatives by the county.
(Ord. 2012-21-CM, passed 6-18-12)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected official or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual's employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the Board of Commissioners or the County Council to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or personnel policies of the
County.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL:
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County;
      (2)   A member of the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County;
      (3)   A member of the Tippecanoe County Council;
      (4)   Each elected county official; and
      (5)   Each circuit and superior court judge.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county.
   MEMBER OF THE SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT. The Sheriff or a law enforcement officer
appointed to the Sheriff’s Department.
   PURCHASING AGENT. A person designated to serve as a purchasing agent for the
county pursuant to the county Public Purchasing Ordinance, Chapter 34 of the
County Code.
   RELATIVE. Any of the following: a spouse; a parent or stepparent; a child or
stepchild; a brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister; a niece or nephew; an
aunt or uncle; or a daughter-in- law or son-in-law. An adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual. The terms brother
and sister include a brother or sister by the half blood.
(Ord. 2012-21-CM, passed 6-18-12)
§ 36.03 RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the county in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
   (B)   An individual who is employed by the county on the date the
individual's relative begins serving a term of an elected office of the county:
      (1)   May remain employed by the county and maintain the individual's
position or rank even if the individual's employment would violate the
prohibition against one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the
other relative.
      (2)   May/may not be promoted to a position, or be promoted to a position
that is not within the merit ranks, in the case of an individual who is a
member of a merit Police Department, if the new position would violate the
prohibition against one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the
other relative.
(Ord. 2012-21-CM, passed 6-18-12)
§ 36.04 EXCLUSIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012 is not
subject to these policies unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county. Breaks in employment do not include the following:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker's
compensation.
      (2)   The individual's employment with the county is terminated followed
by immediate re-employment by the county, without loss of payroll time.
   (B)   These policies do not apply to performance of duties as a precinct
election officer as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1;
   (C)   This policy does not abrogate or affect an employment contract with
the county that:
      (1)   An individual is a party to; and
      (2)   Is in effect on the date the individual's relative begins serving a
term of an elected office of the county.
   (D)   A Sheriff’s spouse may be employed as prison matron for the county
under I.C. 36-8-10-5 and the spouse may be in the Sheriff’s direct line of
supervision.
   (E)   An individual:
      (1)   Who served as coroner;
      (2)   Who is currently ineligible to serve as coroner under Article 6,
Section 2(b) of the Constitution of the State of Indiana;
      (3)   Who, as coroner, received certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3;
and
      (4)   Whose successor in the office of coroner is a relative of the
individual;
      (5)   May be hired in the position of deputy coroner and be in the
coroner's direct line of supervision.
   (F)   If a township trustee's office is located in the township trustee's
personal residence, the township trustee may hire only one employee who is a
relative. The employee:
      (1)   May be hired to work only in the township trustee's office;
      (2)   May be in the township trustee's direct line of supervision; and
      (3)   May not receive total salary, benefits, and compensation that
exceed $5,000 per year.
(Ord. 2012-21-CM, passed 6-18-12)
§ 36.05 RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACTING PRACTICES.
   (A)   The county and its authorized purchasing agents may enter into a
contract or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a
contract for public works with:
      (1)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official or
purchasing agent; or
      (2)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative
of an elected official or purchasing agent;
      (3)   Only if the elected official or purchasing agent does not violate
I.C. 35-44-1-3, and the requirements below are satisfied:
         (a)   The elected official or purchasing agent files with the Board of
Commissioners a full disclosure, which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the elected
official or purchasing agent;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official or
purchasing agent has to the individual or business entity that contracts or
purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Board of Commissioners and be accepted by
the Board of Commissioners in a public meeting prior to final action on the
contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               (i)   The State Board of Accounts; and
               (ii)   The clerk of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court;
         (b)   The elected official or purchasing agent:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
            3.   Satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or I.C. 36-1-
12.
   (B)   An elected official or purchasing agent must also comply with the
disclosure provisions of I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
   (C)   These provisions do not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official or purchasing
agent begins.
   (D)   Each elected official or purchasing agent of the county must annually
certify in writing to the Board of Commissioners of the county not later than
December 31 of each year, subject to the penalties for perjury, that the
elected official or purchasing agent is in compliance with I.C. 36-1-21. An
officer must submit the certification.
(Ord. 2012-21-CM, passed 6-18-12)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
         
52.   SLUDGE DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Unlawful dumping
   
50.03   Unlawful dumping at public recycling sites
Sanitary Requirements
   
50.15   Inspection of premises prior to issuance of permit
   
50.16   Operation not to cause pollution
   
50.17   Salvaging
   
50.18   Burning garbage prohibited
   
50.19   Earth moving equipment
   
50.20   Uncooked garbage for animal consumption; rodent infestation
   
50.21   Hazardous materials
   
50.22   Grading and drainage
   
50.23   Dust and blowing paper control
   
50.24   Spreading of refuse; cover material
   
50.25   Inspection to determine compliance
   
50.26   Review of other disposal methods
Permits
   
50.40   Permit required
   
50.41   Compliance with provisions required
   
50.42   Permit fee
   
50.43   Plans to be submitted to Health Officer
   
50.44   Inspection of equipment and vehicles, permit and fee
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.55   Establishing maximum landfill rates
   
50.56   Health Officer to inspect disposal site
   
50.57   Enforcement authority; proceedings
   
50.58   Solid waste management district
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. A person who hauls refuse for a fee.
   COUNTY. Those areas which are under the jurisdiction of the County Health
Officer and situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes including every waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetables.
   GROUND WATER. Water in the ground that is in the zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Shall include, but is not limited to, explosives,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Tippecanoe County Health Officer, or his authorized
representative.
   PUBLIC DISPOSAL. Shall mean and relate to disposal or refuse which has been
removed from premises used, owned, or leased by one or more persons, firms,
corporations, or associations, and transported to other premises and disposed
of either with, or without, the payment of a fee.
   REFUSE. Any combination of garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, metalware, junked automobiles, used
appliances, used furniture, broken glass, crockery, sweepings, boxes, wood,
grass, weeds or litter of any kind.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing principles of
engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical volume, and to
cover the refuse deposited each day with a compacted layer of suitable cover
material at the conclusion of each working day  (and at more frequent intervals
if necessary).
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SURFACE WATER. A body of water whose top surface is exposed to the
atmosphere including a flowing body as well as a pond and a lake.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.02 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any garbage or
rubbish, or refuse, at any place in the county other than its point of origin,
that is not a licensed public refuse disposal site, except that any person may
transport inert waste material from one property to another property owned,
leased, or rented by him for storage or use as fill or top or to a disposal
site which has been licensed for the receipt of such inert waste material by
the Indiana State Board of Health; and nothing in this chapter shall prevent
the disposal of refuse from road construction projects in a manner approved by
the Indiana State Board of Health and the Environmental Protective Agency; and
nothing in this chapter shall prevent the use of cinders and other inert waste
materials in the construction of highways, driveways and building projects; and
nothing in the chapter shall prevent the spreading of sludge or other wastes on
agricultural land pursuant to valid permits issued by the Indiana State Board
of Health.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any garbage or
hazardous material at any place in the county other than its point of origin
that is not a sanitary landfill that is approved as such by the Indiana State
Board of Health.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed commercial hauler to dispose of
any garbage, rubbish, or refuse which originates in the county at any place
outside of the county that is not a sanitary landfill approved as such by the
Indiana State Board of Health, except as provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.03 UNLAWFUL DUMPING AT PUBLIC RECYCLING SITES.
   (A)   This section applies to locations where Tippecanoe County or the
Tippecanoe County Solid Waste Management District have caused receptacles for
collection of recyclable material to be made available for use by the public in
Tippecanoe County.
   (B)   As used in this section, RECYCLABLE MATERIAL refers to material such
as paper, glass, plastic, and aluminum intended to be segregated from the solid
waste stream for the purpose of its use or reuse, conversion into raw
materials, or use in the production of new products.
   (C)   A person may not place recyclable or other material in a recycling
receptacle unless the owner or operator of the receptacle has indicated,
through signage or other means, that the material is acceptable for placement
in the receptacle.
   (D)   A person may not dump recyclable or other material outside of the
receptacle unless the owner or operator of the receptacle or the owner of the
real estate on which the receptacle is located has indicated, through signage
or other means, that such dumping is permissible.
   (E)   The first violation of this section within a one year period shall be
subject to a fine in the amount of $250, the second violation of this section
within a one year period shall be subject to a fine of $1,000, and the third
violation of this section within a one year period shall be subject to a fine
of up to $2,500.
   (F)   A citation may be issued in the form specified under I.C. 34-28-5-1(e)
and I.C. 9-30-3-6. A copy of the citation shall be provided to the Clerk and to
the County Attorney. If the amount of the fine is not more than $250, the fine
may be paid through the Tippecanoe County Clerk under I.C. 33-36-3-1.
   (G)   In addition to the fines set forth in division (E) of this section, an
person who violates this section shall be responsible for such reasonable fees
and expenses as are made necessary by the owner’s failure to comply with this
section including, without limitation, the costs of handling the dumped
material, attorney’s fees, damages to the surrounding property, and costs of
injury caused by the dumped material.
   (H)   In addition to any other remedy available under this chapter, the
County or the Tippecanoe County Solid Waste Management District may seek
injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction to correct an ongoing
violation under this section.
   (I)   There is hereby created in the office of the Auditor of Tippecanoe
County a separate fund to be known as the Waste Management Support Fund (“the
Fund”). All monies received from fines recovered under this section shall be
deposited in the Fund. Monies may be expended from such fund only for the
purpose of supporting recycling and other waste management efforts in
Tippecanoe County. Interest on the Fund shall be deposited to the county
general fund.
(Ord. 2019-19-CM, passed 8-5-19)
   SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.15 INSPECTION OF PREMISES PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The issuance of any permit to a person for the operation of a proposed
refuse disposal site shall be subject to the approval of the health officer who
shall inspect the proposed site prior to the issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.16 OPERATION NOT TO CAUSE POLLUTION.
   Sanitary landfill operations shall be so designed and executed that
conditions of pollution will not be created and injury to ground and surface
waters avoided which might interfere with legitimate water uses. Water-filled
areas not directly connected to natural lakes, rivers, or streams shall be
drained or may be filled with specific inert material not detrimental to
legitimate water uses and which will not create a nuisance or hazard to health.
Special approval of the drainage method or of the inert material to be used in
such fill is required in writing from the Health Officer.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.17 SALVAGING.
   Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it will not interfere
with prompt sanitary disposal of refuse or create unsightliness or health
hazards. This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill operator to
prevent salvaging as a part of his operational standards. Scavenging shall not
be permitted. All salvage material must be removed from the disposal area at
least once each week except that and any and all materials containing food for
rodents and insects, including tin cans, shall be disposed of daily in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.18 BURNING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   No garbage or rubbish containing garbage shall be burned at a sanitary
landfill.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.19 EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT.
   Any person engaged in public refuse disposal by sanitary landfill shall have
available at all times earth moving equipment of adequate size and capacity to
satisfactorily operate such sanitary landfill. An all- weather road shall be
provided to the sanitary landfill site and site of operation.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.20 UNCOOKED GARBAGE FOR ANIMAL CONSUMPTION; RODENT INFESTATION.
   (A)   It shall be expressly forbidden to make uncooked garbage available for
animal consumption at any public refuse disposal site.
   (B)   Infestation of rodents and insects on the premises of a public refuse
disposal site shall constitute a violation of this chapter and such violation
shall be determined by the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.21 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Hazardous materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be disposed of
in a sanitary landfill unless special provisions are made for such disposal
through the Health Officer, the State Board of Health and/or the Stream
Pollution Control Board. This provision in no way precludes the right of a
landfill owner to exclude any materials as a part of his operational standards.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.22 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   The entire site, including the fill surface, shall be graded and provided
with drainage facilities to minimize runoff onto and into the fill, to prevent
erosion or washing of the fill, to drain off rainwater falling on the fill, and
to prevent the collection of standing water.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.23 DUST AND BLOWING PAPER CONTROL.
   Measures shall be provided to control dust and blowing paper. The entire
area shall be kept clean and orderly.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.24 SPREADING OF REFUSE; COVER MATERIAL.
   (A)   Refuse shall be spread so that it can be compacted in layers not
exceeding a depth of two feet. Large and bulky items, when not excluded from
the site, shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A final layer of suitable cover material compacted to a minimum
thickness of two feet shall be placed over the entire surface of each portion
not later than one week following the placement of refuse within that portion.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.25 INSPECTION TO DETERMINE COMPLIANCE.
   An inspection of the entire site shall be made by the Health Officer to
determine compliance with approved plans and specifications before the earth-
moving equipment is removed from the site. Any necessary corrective work shall
be performed before the landfill project is accepted as completed. Arrangements
shall be made for the repair of all cracked, eroded, and uneven areas in the
final cover during the first two years following completion of the landfill.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.26 REVIEW OF OTHER DISPOSAL METHODS.
   Any other method of solid waste disposal not covered by these rules shall be
reviewed by the Health Department for the purposes of evaluating the design and
operational methods with reference to: the nuisance factor, the safety of
employees and protection of the public health. Such disposal methods shall be
subject to the evaluation and approval of the Health Officer.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
   PERMITS
§ 50.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked
permit from the Health Officer, to engage in the county in removal of refuse
from the premises to a location other than the place of origin of such refuse
for disposal, except that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
any person from removing the refuse created on his premises to a sanitary
landfill, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any person
from moving inert waste material from one property owned, leased or rented by
him for storage or use as top soil, fill dirt, or similar usage and nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the use of cinders or other inert waste
materials in the construction of driveways or highways or as fill for
construction projects; and nothing herein shall prevent the disposal of refuse
from road construction projects in any manner approved by the Indiana State
Board of Health and the Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, who does not possess an unrevoked
permit from the Health Officer, to engage in the county in the disposal of
refuse on premises other than the place of origin in such quantities as to have
public health significance.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.41 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be for the term
of one year on a calendar year basis and shall be renewable annually. Any
permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the person to
whom it is issued, and such other pertinent information as may be required by
the Health Officer. A permit shall be issued to any person who has complied
with the requirements of this chapter and no permit or renewal thereof shall be
denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds. A permit may be temporarily
suspended by the Health Officer upon violation, by the holder, of any of the
terms of this chapter or revoked after an opportunity for a hearing by the
Health Officer upon serious repeated violation. A separate permit shall be
required for each public disposal site operated, or to be operated, by any
person.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.42 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   No disposal site permit signed by the Health Officer shall be valid
until it has been countersigned by the County Treasurer. The Treasurer shall
countersign a properly signed permit upon payment to the Treasurer of a permit
fee in the amount of $25. All monies or fees collected under the terms of this
chapter shall revert to the General Fund of the county.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for a refuse disposal site in the county which
is operated by the Board of Commissioners, any municipality located in the
county or by the State of Indiana or by any State University.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.43 PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED TO HEALTH OFFICER.
   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for any disposal site,
detailed plans and specifications and necessary reports must be submitted to
the Health Officer by a registered professional engineer. The services of a
registered professional engineer for the preparation of plans and
specifications for an existing disposal site may be waived, when the Health
Officer, in his judgment, believes that technical problems will not be
encountered; however, the required plans and specifications must then be
prepared and submitted by the permit applicant. Such site must be approved by
all appropriate zoning authorities and the Indiana State Board of Health.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.44 INSPECTION OF EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES, PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for the collection and
transportation of refuse, all equipment and vehicles to be used shall be
inspected by the Health Officer. All equipment and vehicles used to transport
garbage to a disposal site shall be covered, watertight and cleaned as may be
necessary to prevent nuisances and health hazards and all vehicles used for
inert waste material shall be so constructed and in such condition as to
prevent loss of the material on the public highways.
   (B)   A permit fee of $1 shall be paid to the County Treasurer for each
vehicle, or other piece of equipment used for the transportation or hauling of
refuse. No fee shall be charged for vehicles, or other pieces of equipment
operated by the Board of Commissioners, any municipality located in the county,
the State of Indiana, or by any State University.
   (C)   The permit issued by the County Health Officer shall be carried in
plain view in the vehicle or other piece of equipment which it belongs whenever
such vehicle or piece of equipment is being used for the collection or
transportation of refuse.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
Penalty, see § 50.99
   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.55 ESTABLISHING MAXIMUM LANDFILL RATES.
   (A)   No person now or hereafter holding an unrevoked permit issued from the
Health Officer pursuant to § 50.40 shall charge any user of a sanitary landfill
any sum for disposal of garbage, rubbish, or refuse therein in excess of those
maximum charges established pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Whenever any person now or hereafter holding an unrevoked permit
issued pursuant to § 50.40 desires to charge rates in excess of those then in
effect such person shall file a verified petition with the Board of
Commissioners requesting permission to do so which petition shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of petitioner;
      (2)   Disposal site;
      (3)   Number and expiration of disposal site permit;
      (4)   Maximum rates then established for such disposal site;
      (5)   New maximum rates requested for such disposal site;
      (6)   Date maximum rates in effect were established;
      (7)   Level of the construction cost index published by the Engineering
News Record on dates rates in effect were set;
      (8)   Level of construction cost index at most recent date of publication
at time petition is filed;
      (9)   Reasons for requested increase;
      (10)   Signature of person seeking increase or an officer thereof.
   (C)   Whenever a petition is received by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to division (B) above, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing
thereon within 15 days of the date of receipt thereof, and shall act thereon
within 30 days of the date of receipt thereof.
   (D)   In no event shall the maximum rates authorized or established by the
Board of Commissioners for the sanitary landfill be less than the rates
currently in effect plus the percentage of increase in the level of the most
recent construction cost index.
   (E)   In the event that the Board of Commissioners fail to set new rates
within 30 days of the date of receipt of such verified petition, the rates
petitioned for therein shall be, and remain, in effect until final action is
taken by the Board of Commissioners on such petition.
   (F)   No petition to increase the maximum rates shall be filed pursuant to
this section until the expiration of six months from the date of filing the
last previous petition for a rate increase or decrease at such disposal site.
   (G)   Any person holding an unrevoked permit for a disposal site located in
the county shall accept and process all garbage, rubbish and refuse presented
to it for disposal by any person during normal business hours upon tender of
payment of the maximum rates then established for such disposal site.
(Ord. 81-10, passed 6-1-81)
§ 50.56 HEALTH OFFICER TO INSPECT DISPOSAL SITE.
   At least once each month the Health Officer shall inspect each refuse
disposal site located within the county. Whenever the Health Officer discovers
a violation of any item of sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this
chapter, he shall make a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he
deems necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall
be used in determining compliance with terms of this chapter. Any violation of
the same item of the chapter on such second inspection shall call for
suspension or revocation of the permit. One copy of the Health Officer’s
inspection report, on which violations of any item of sanitation pertinent to
the provisions of this chapter shall be enscribed, shall be delivered to the
permittee by the Health Officer. Another copy of the aforementioned inspection
report shall be filed by the Health Officer with the records of the County
Health Department. The person operating the public disposal site shall, upon
request of the Health Officer, permit access to all parts of the grounds by the
Health Officer and shall permit him to copy any and all records pertaining to
the sources of refuse transported thereto for public disposal.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.57 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the County Health Officer
and the County Sheriff.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney and the County
Attorney, or either of them to whom the Health Officer shall report any
violations of the provisions of this chapter, to cause proceedings to be
commenced against the person violating the provisions of this chapter and to
prosecute to final termination.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
§ 50.58 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Tippercanoe County Solid Waste Management District.
      (1)   There is hereby established the Tippecanoe County Solid Waste
Management District which shall consist of all of the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Tippecanoe County.
      (2)   The District shall exercise all powers granted to solid waste
management districts pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3, including without limitation
thereby, I.C. 13-21-3-12 and I.C. 13-21-3-12.2, as from time to time amended.
   (B)   Board of Directors.
      (1)   The District shall be governed by a Board of Directors consisting
of the following members:
         (a)   Three members of the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe
County.
         (b)   One member appointed by the Tippecanoe County Council from the
membership of the County Council.
         (c)   The Mayor of the City of Lafayette, Indiana.
         (d)   One member of the Lafayette City Council appointed by the
Lafayette City Council.
         (e)   The Mayor of the City of West Lafayette, Indiana.
      (2)   Subject to division (3) below, the term of office of a member of
the Board who is appointed from the membership of an executive, legislative, or
fiscal body is coextensive with the member's term of office on that body.
      (3)   All members of the Board serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority.
      (4)   The Board shall exercise all powers granted to the Board of
Directors of a solid waste management district pursuant to I.C. 13-21-3,
including without limitation thereby, I.C. 13-21-3-13, as from time to time
amended.
   (C)   Officers.
      (1)   The Board shall select the following:
         (a)   A chairperson and vice chairperson from the Board's membership.
         (b)   A controller who is not a member of the Board.
      (2)   The controller shall perform the duties set forth in I.C. 13-21-3-
10, as from time to time amended, and such other duties as may be prescribed by
the Board.
      (3)   If a controller selected by a Board under this section is the
fiscal officer of a county or municipality, the duties of the controller under
a statute or an ordinance are in addition to the duties the controller has
while serving as the fiscal officer of the county or municipality.
   (D)   Citizen Solid Waste Management Advisory Committee.
      (1)   The Board of Directors shall appoint a Citizen Solid Waste
Management Advisory Committee, in accordance with I.C. 13-21-3-11, consisting
of the following members:
         (a)   Representatives of the solid waste management industry operating
in the District; and
         (b)   Representatives of the environmental community and other
citizens who are:
            1.   Knowledgeable about and interested in environmental issues;
and
            2.   Not employed directly or indirectly by the solid waste
management industry.
         (c)   At least 50% of the members of an Advisory Committee must be
made up of the representatives of the environmental community and other
citizens.
         (d)   All members of the Committee must be residents of the district.
         (e)   In the resolution establishing an Advisory Committee, the Board
shall specify the terms of the members and the purposes of the Committee.
      (2)   Duties of the committee. The Advisory Committee shall do the
following:
         (a)   Study the subjects and problems specified by the Board and
recommend to the Board additional problems in need of study and discussion.
         (b)   If invited by the Board to do so, participate, without the right
to vote, in the deliberations of the Board.
         (c)   The Advisory Committee shall report only to the Board. Reports
of the committee must:
            1.   Accompany a final District plan when the plan is submitted to
the Commissioner under I.C. 13-21-5; and
            2.   Be made available to members of the public.
         (d)   The Advisory Committee may choose to study and report on matters
that are not specified by the Board if the Committee determines a study is
warranted.
         (e)   The Advisory Committee and Board shall conduct at least two
joint meetings each year to discuss current and future issues. The Advisory
Committee shall submit into the record at the next meeting of the Board advice
on the topics discussed at the joint meeting.
         (f)   The Advisory Committee shall do the following:
            1.   Meet after the first publication of the district's proposed
annual budget.
            2.   Submit written comments concerning the proposed budget at a
public hearing that is held to review the proposed budget.
(Ord. 91-13-CM, passed 6-20-91; Am. Ord. 2012-12-CM, passed 2-20-12)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500, and each day after the expiration of
the time limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to
abate such conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health, or by the duly
appointed Health Officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
(Ord. 76-19, passed 6-14-76)
CHAPTER 51: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Authority
   
51.04   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
51.05   Definitions
   
51.06   System requirements
   
51.07   Qualified building sites
   
51.08   Permits
   
51.09   Inspections
   
51.10   Petition for review
   
51.11   Enforcement
   
51.12   Remedies
   
51.13   Procedure for hearing
   
51.14   Referral to prosecutor or Health Department attorney
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Private Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Tippecanoe County, and may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of private sewage disposal systems and to otherwise promote continuing public
safety, maintain the present and future welfare of residents of the county, and
protection of the environment.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.03 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-4, the county through its executive officers, has
all powers necessary or desirable in the conduct of the county’s affairs.
Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-2, the County Executive of the county may adopt health
ordinances that apply to the entire county. Therefore, the Health Officer, as
hereinafter defined, and the Health Officer’s agents and representatives are
hereby authorized to issue permits, collect permit and incidental fees as
provided by prior or subsequent ordinance or as provided herein, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and are otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.04 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found in
Title 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq. and all technical specifications for onsite
sewage disposal systems are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter
and shall include any later amendments to those regulations and specifications
as the same are published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative
Code with effective dates as fixed therein. Copies of 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq.
and technical specifications incidental thereto are available and on file in
the office of the County Health Department and the County Auditor.
   (B)   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found in
Title 410 IAC
6-10-1 et seq. are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter and shall
include any later amendments to those regulations as the same are published in
the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein. Copies of the 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq. are available and on file
in the offices of the County Health Department and the County Auditor.
   (C)   Future regulations for the Indiana State Department of Health,
including but not limited to 410 IAC 6-8.2-1 et seq. and including any later
amendments to those regulations, shall become part of this chapter and this
chapter shall be interpreted consistent with all such future Indiana State
Department of Health regulations.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.05 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in 410
IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq., this chapter shall include the following definitions.
   BOARD. The County Health Department.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. That building or structure utilized primarily for the
purchase, sale, or exchange of goods or services or the maintenance of offices
or recreational activities including, but not limited to, office buildings,
apartments, condominiums, motels, mobile home parks, churches, campgrounds,
schools, hospitals, nursing homes, subdivisions, restaurants, etc., at
locations where such facilities may be approvable.
   DUPLEX. A dwelling as defined in 410 IAC 6-8.1-7 with two separate living
quarters for two separate families.
   EXISTING BUILDING SITE. That tract, plot, subdivision lot, parcel, or other
piece of land upon which is presently situated a residence, business,
recreational, or other real estate use and upon which a private sewage disposal
system has been in use prior to the effective date of this chapter. The
definition of an EXISTING BUILDING SITE shall also include unimproved tracts,
plots, parcels, and other legally divided pieces of land in existence prior to
the effective date of this chapter and those subdivision lots which have been
approved by all requisite authorities, including the county Area Plan
Commission (the “APC”), and have unexpired primary approval from the APC as of
the effective date of this chapter.
   FUTURE BUILDING SITE. That tract, plot, portion of a subdivision, parcel, or
other piece of land created or subdivided subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter, and upon which residential, business, recreational, or other
buildings are to be located or placed. To be a future building site under this
chapter, the building site must further comply with requirements of this
chapter found hereafter.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the county.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY UNITS. Any building or place used or intended to be used as
a place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping more than two
families.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Any land development which requires the specific zoning
classification entitled PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal facility not owned by a
municipality or sanitary district or such a facility not administered by or
constructed with approval from the Indiana State Department of Health and shall
include septic tanks, aeration treatment tanks, finger systems or other
subsurface absorption fields and any drains or tiles incidental thereto.
Included within the definition is a sewage disposal system for residences and
business buildings.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A system which provides piped water for human
consumption to at least 15 service connections or at least 25 people at least
60 days out of the year.
   RESIDENCE. A dwelling, as defined in 410 IAC 6-8.1-7.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.06 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a sanitary sewer system is not available to serve a building site
within the County, all persons owning, leasing, or otherwise occupying property
shall comply with all applicable Indiana State Department of Health
regulations, 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq., 410 6-8.3 et seq., and 410 IAC 6-10-1 et
seq., as well as all amendments and supplements thereto including but not
limited to 410 IAC 6-8.2-1 et seq. and other state regulations, any local
ordinances, and the following provisions of this chapter for a private sewage
disposal system:
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or ground waters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise disposed into
such waters, any organic or inorganic matter that would cause or contribute to
a health hazard or water pollution;
   (B)   Should a private sewage disposal system fail, the failure shall be
corrected by the owner or occupant of the property served by such system within
the time limit set by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.07 QUALIFIED BUILDING SITES.
   (A)   Minimum size. In order to be considered for a private sewage disposal
system, a future building site shall have a minimum area based on and
determined by the soil loading rate, calculated as provided in applicable
regulation or rule of the Indiana State Department of Health, of the soil
located upon the building site. Those building sites which have a soil loading
rate of 0.30 gpd/sq. ft. gallons per day per square foot or less shall have a
minimum lot size of 43,560 square feet (1 acre). Those building sites having a
soil loading rate of 0.50 gpd/sq. ft. or more must have a minimum lot size of
30,000 square feet (0.69 acre). The soil loading rate for a future building
site shall be determined by a soil profile, including no less than three
borings per site and with the most restrictive boring used to determine the
soil loading rate, performed by a soil scientist using generally recognized
methods and consistent with Indiana State Department of Health regulations,
guidelines, and rules.
   (B)   Replacement system. In order to qualify as a future building site, the
proposed site must have sufficient suitable area contained within the future
building site for the proposed initial private sewage disposal system as well
as an additional area (an alternate site meeting the criteria required by state
regulations and local ordinances for installation of septic systems) approved
by the Health Department, for installation of a second absorption field of
similar design and configuration as the proposed initial private sewage
disposal system so that additional area may be utilized as necessary to repair
or replace the private sewage disposal system.
   (C)   Existing sites. A proposed initial private sewage disposal system for
an existing building site shall conform with existing regulations, guidelines,
and rules of the Indiana State Department of Health and this chapter. Such
existing building sites shall not be required to be of minimum size or contain
an alternate area for a replacement system as stated above.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.08 PERMITS.
   (A)   Before the commencement of construction, alteration or repair of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner or his agent shall apply in writing
to the County Health Department’s office for a permit to construct, alter or
repair a private sewage disposal system, which application shall set out the
date of the intended construction, alteration, or repair, topographic and soil
characteristic information as well as other information required in 410 IAC 6-
8.1-48 and 410 IAC 6-10-6, previously incorporated herein by reference, and
expressly stating that the owner has complied and will at all times comply with
the standards set out in this chapter. No permit will be issued if it is
determined the issuance of such a permit would violate or otherwise be
inconsistent with the provisions of 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq., 410 IAC 6-10-1 et
seq., any federal or state statute or regulation and any ordinance of the
county, or would otherwise be reasonably expected to cause or contribute to an
unsanitary condition or an unacceptable probability of groundwater
contamination or construction of a private sewage disposal system with an
unacceptable risk of failure.
   (B)   All applications and plans for a private sewage disposal system for
future building sites and for a proposed initial private sewage disposal system
on existing building sites which utilize a curtain tile or drain shall include
a certification from a professional engineer, professional geologist, or
professional land surveyor, indicating the location of such a drain or tile
with respect to the private sewage disposal system, the depth of the tile or
drain, the outlet of the tile or drain and the elevations of the drain with
regard to site topography and shall otherwise confirm and certify that the
plans incidental to the curtain tile or drain are sufficient to effectively
drain subsurface water from the perimeter of the private sewage disposal system
absorption field. All curtain drains or tiles shall be built per plans
certified by the professional engineer or professional geologist or
professional land surveyor.
   (C)   Permit fees shall be payable as provided by ordinance.
   (D)   No private sewage disposal system shall serve more than one single
dwelling or business building. However, a curtain tile or drain serving a
private sewage disposal system may be located on a site other than the site for
the private sewage disposal system if the right to use and otherwise maintain
the tile or drain is protected by easement, covenant, or other similar
enforceable rights to protect the tile or drain serving the private sewage
disposal system. No permits will be issued for multiple family units served by
a private sewage disposal system unless permitted by 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq.
   (E)   A permit for the installation of a private sewage disposal system,
whether issued prior to or after the adoption of this chapter, shall lapse and
be void if work has not been started within 180 days and completed within one
year after issuance.
   (F)   No part of a private sewage disposal system for a residence shall be
located closer than 25 feet to a surface water drain tile, running stream or
surface water drain. All rules and regulations of the County Drainage Board
will apply to any legal ditch or drain. All parts of the system must be kept at
least 50 feet from any water well.
   (G)   Because of the hazards regarding potential ground water contamination
resulting from the development of subdivisions, planned developments, parcels
and other divisions of land for development, the Health Officer may, at the
Health Officer’s discretion, decline to issue a permit for a private sewage
disposal system if the Health Officer determines the system is reasonably
expected to cause or contribute to a health hazard or an unsanitary condition
unless a public water supply is provided.
   (H)   Those factors to be considered by the Health Officer in making a
determination to issue or decline to issue a permit unless a public water
supply is provided include, but are not limited to, the requirements of 410 IAC
6-8.1-1 et seq. and 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq., soil and geological conditions, the
depth of the water table and the quantity of water available, and evidence of
contaminants in excess of drinking water standards as established or otherwise
referenced in the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 USC 201 et seq.) as it may be
amended.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.09 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board, its agent, or the Health Officer or his or her agent shall
be permitted to enter upon all properties for purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to insure compliance
with this chapter and to verify no private sewage disposal system has failed.
   (B)   Inspections for private sewage disposal systems shall be conducted
before construction begins. No construction of the private sewage disposal
system may take place if the private sewage disposal system site is disturbed
or altered after the onsite evaluation by the addition of fill material (other
than construction necessary for the private sewage disposal system itself) or
by cutting, scraping, compaction or the removal of soil, until a new evaluation
has been conducted and a modified permit has been issued. In the event the on-
site inspection indicates site limitations, arising from topography or soil
characteristics or other site characteristics, the site owner or his agent is
responsible for designing a private sewage disposal system which addresses the
demands of the site in accordance with rules established in 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et
seq., 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq., and this chapter.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99)
§ 51.10 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall hear appeals incidental to the issuance and
revocation of permits if, within 15 days following the date of receipt of an
issued permit, permit modification, notice of permit denial or notice of permit
revocation, any person aggrieved by such action files a petition for review
concerning such action with the Department.
   (B)   A petition for review shall:
      (1)   State the name, address and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request (petitioner).
      (2)   Identify the interest(s) of the petitioner which is effected by the
permit issuance, denial, modification or revocation.
      (3)   State with particularity the reasons for the request.
      (4)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered.
      (5)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgment of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of this chapter
and 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq. or 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq. and of any other
applicable law or legal requirement.
   (C)   If the Health Officer declines to grant relief requested by any person
who has filed a petition for review as referenced above, then that aggrieved
person shall have the right to appeal the Health Officer’s decision to the
Circuit or Superior courts of Tippecanoe County.
   (D)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5-3-26 and in this chapter
shall apply to the conduct of any hearing referenced herein unless inconsistent
herewith. Any notices required to the Department, or Health Officer, shall be
sufficient if mailed or hand delivered to the Department’s office if the notice
is received before expiration of the time for filing the notice.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 51.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions
of this chapter. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this
Chapter shall be null and void. A violation of an abatement order issued by the
Health Officer pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20-1-25, or a similar
statute, shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the Health Department or the duly appointed Health Officer with a
written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit, but not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days, for correction of
any violations of this chapter. The written order shall be served either by
certified mail or personal service by the Health Officer or his or her
designate.
   (C)   Application of this chapter or any part of this chapter is intended to
be consistent with 410 IAC 6-8.1-1 et seq. and 410 IAC 6-10-1 et seq. and any
regulations supplementing, replacing, or repealing those regulations including
but not limited to 410 IAC 6-8.2-1 et seq. This chapter shall be interpreted
consistent with existing regulations and any inconsistency of this chapter with
any statute, regulation, or other ordinance shall be resolved in favor of
enforceability of this chapter. Any reference herein to any regulation of any
Department of the State of Indiana shall include any future amendment or
replacement of those regulations by regulations approved or adopted subsequent
to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 51.12 REMEDIES.
   The Health Officer may bring actions in the Tippecanoe Circuit Court or
Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief for the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Health Officer; to restrain any person from violating this chapter; to cause
violations of this chapter to be prevented, abated, or removed; or to otherwise
provide for the enforcement of this chapter. Any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties, costs
and expenses provided in this chapter. In the event any legal action is
necessary to enforce this chapter, the Health Officer may seek recovery of
costs and expenses reasonably incurred to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees, loss or
damage occasioned by reason of a violation of this chapter, and other costs.
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and not exclusive and
shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 51.13 PROCEDURE FOR HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section, shall be open
to the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the party to the proceedings to appear and
participate in the hearing.
   (B)   At any hearing provided for under this chapter, the Hearing Officer
shall be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who
is a party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to
cross-examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel as arranged by
the party to the proceedings. All such hearings shall be conducted in an
informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitive evidence may
be excluded.
   (C)   Within a reasonable time after such hearing, the Health Officer or the
Health Officer’s designee shall enter a final order, subject to the right of
appeal to a Court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter
of the appeal.
   (D)   To exercise the right of appeal, a party to the final order must file
a petition for relief from the order with the Circuit or a Superior Court of
Tippecanoe County no later than as required by law or 60 days from the date of
the Health Officer’s final order, whichever is less.
   (E)   If a septic permit is revoked, subject to any court order, no septic
permit will be issued, with respect to the septic system that was the subject
of the permit, until after one year from the date of the permit revocation;
provided that, if the permit applicant can show through plan review a
significant change of circumstances incidental to the installation,
maintenance, repair, or replacement of the proposed or existing septic system
or other relevant circumstances associated with the operation of the existing
or proposed septic system that the reasons for a permit denial or revocation
would be unlikely to re-occur, the Health Officer, in their discretion, may
waive the imposition of this subparagraph and may issue an installation or
repair or other form of permit.
(Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 51.14 REFERRAL TO PROSECUTOR OR HEALTH DEPARTMENT ATTORNEY.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any person or entity subject to
the provisions of this chapter is in willful or continuing violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty
imposed by this chapter, the Health Officer may furnish evidence of said
willful or continuing violation to the Prosecuting Attorney of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana or the attorney for the Department who shall seek all
appropriate legal remedies against the entity or person(s) violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   The Department has determined that one of the most efficient methods of
encouraging compliance with ordinances to protect the public health is to
assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to suppress
disease and minimize health risks. For purposes of tracking violations and
imposing fines under this chapter the Department shall maintain inspection
records for not less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted
consistent with this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a violation is
noted within any one-year period. For a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter within any one-year period, a civil penalty is payable as provided in
this chapter.
   (A)   The following civil penalties (fines) shall apply for a violation of
this chapter which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one-year
period:
      (1)   The second time the same violation is determined within any one-
year period, there will be a fine of $50.
      (2)   The third (and subsequent) time the same violation is determined
within any one-year period, there will be a fine of $100.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the
Tippecanoe County Health Department or the Health Officer, shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense; provided that, the total of all fines imposed
for a continuing violation of this chapter shall not exceed the total sum of
$10,000.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
until all fines associated with violation of this chapter have been paid in
full. Any fines and late fees may be collected in any manner provided herein or
as provided by law including any law for collection of debts, along with
attorney fees incurred to collect said amounts owing and with all costs of
collection.
   (D)   Any assessment of a civil penalty under this Chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in this chapter. Any request for an appeal shall be filed
in writing with the Health Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil
penalty.
(Ord. 99-30-CM, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2019-10-CM, passed 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 52: SLUDGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Disposal regulations
   
52.04   Enforcement
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates disposal of sludge within the county.
(‘82 Code, § 3-43-1) (Ord. 79-29, passed 10-22-79)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPOSAL OF. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking
or placing of any sludge into or on any land or water so that any of such
material, or any constituent thereof, may enter into the environment or be
discharged into the air or water, including ground water.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid or liquid waste material generated from septic
tanks, privies, municipal, commercial or industrial waste water treatment
plants, water supply treatment plants or air pollution control facilities or
any other waste material having similar characteristics and effects, but does
not include animal wastes generated from farms, farmlots, or facilities for the
breeding, rearing or fattening of livestock, or industrial waste which does not
include human waste.
(‘82 Code, § 3-43-2) (Ord. 79-29, passed 10-22-79)
§ 52.03 DISPOSAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sludge shall be disposed of in the county except in compliance with
the requirements of Part IX of the Regulations adopted by the Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to Sections 1008(a)(3) and 4004(a) of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976, 42 USC 6907(a)(3) and 6944(a) as well as Section 405(d) of the Clean
Water Act as amended, 42 USC 345 as published in the Federal Register on
Thursday, September 13, 1979, at 40 CFR, 257, entitled Criteria for
Classification of Solid Waste Disposal Facilities and Practices, including any
and all amendments thereto, adopted hereafter.
   (B)   No sludge shall be disposed of on any land which is within 300 feet of
any public highway, inhabited dwelling, factory or retail or commercial
building, unless a waiver in writing is first obtained from the Health Officer.
   (C)   No sludge shall be disposed of on any land which is within 1,500 feet
of any town, city, subdivision, school, church, or other public building.
   (D)   No sludge shall be disposed of on any land which is located within 300
feet of any well, spring, stream, river, pond, lake or high water mark of a
ten- year flood. This does not apply to the liquid discharge from individual
home septic tanks.
   (E)   No sludge shall be disposed of upon any land without the prior written
consent of the owner.
(‘82 Code, § 3-42-3) (Ord. 79-29, passed 10-22-79)
§ 52.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the County Health
Officer who shall be guided in such enforcement by the latest guidelines of
standards adopted by the Indiana State Board of Health and the Environmental
Protection Agency.
(‘82 Code, § 3-43-4) (Ord. 79-29, passed 10-22-79)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
73.   TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
         
74.   TRAFFIC IN A RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits on county highways
   
70.02   Speed limits on streets in residential subdivisions and towns
   
70.03   Weight limits
   
70.04   Alcohol use in vehicles
   
70.05   Speed limits and traffic control devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-referecence:
   Thoroghfare Plan, see
Chapter 158
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUILT UP or URBAN AREA. The territory contiguous to and including any
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 125 feet for a distance of
500 feet or more.
      SCHOOL ZONE. The territory contiguous to and including any highway which
is within one quarter mile of any building, public or private, which is used
primarily for the education of children, including nursery schools,
kindergartens, grammar schools, and high schools.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(‘82 Code, § 5-81-2)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
safe maximum speed limits on county highways.
(‘82 Code, § 5-81-1)
   (C)   Speed regulations.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a county highway at a speed that
is greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
      (2)   The limits specified in this section shall be the maximum lawful
speeds on the county highways, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway
at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
         (a)   Thirty miles per hour in any school zone or other built up or
urban area;
         (b)   Forty-five miles per hour on any gravel road;
         (c)   Fifty miles per hour on any black- top, concrete or other hard
surfaced road.
(‘82 Code, § 5-81-3)
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Special hazard. Except when a special hazard exists that requires
lower speed for compliance with division (C)(1) above of this section, and such
lower speed is posted.
      (2)   Tippecanoe County School Corporation Property.
         (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle or bicycle on school
property of Tippecanoe School Corporation at a speed in excess of ten miles per
hour or in a reckless manner, or in a manner damaging to school property.
         (b)   All motorized vehicles, bicycles, and other traffic on any
property of Tippecanoe School Corporation shall observe all designated traffic
signs at all times.
         (c)   No vehicle shall be parked at any time or any property of
Tippecanoe School Corporation except in the areas designated for such parking.
         (d)   No motorized vehicles shall be operated on any school property
of Tippecanoe School Corporation except for ingress or egress to designated
parking areas or to deliver or pick up personnel or material as necessary for
approved school functions.
         (e)   No motorized vehicles, bicycles or other vehicles shall be
operated or parked in any manner except as stated in subsections (a) through
(d) inclusive above, without the prior written approval of the personnel in
charge of the school property on which such vehicle is being operated or
parked.
(‘82 Code, § 5-81-4) (Ord. - -, passed 3-29-71; Am. Ord. - -, passed 10-20-75)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits on specific county roads, see
Chapter 72, Schedule I
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS ON STREETS IN RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS AND TOWNS.
   (A)   Speed limits. The reasonable and safe prima facie speed permitted on
streets in residential subdivisions, or streets located within unincorporated
towns which have residential structures situated at intervals of less than 200
feet for a distance of at least one fourth mile shall be as follows:
      (1)   On all streets located in residential subdivisions the maximum
speed limit shall be 25 m.p.h.;
      (2)   On all streets located within unincorporated towns which have
residential
structures situated at intervals of less than 200 feet for a distance of at
least one-fourth mile, the speed limit shall be 25 m.p.h.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of division (A) above of this section do
not apply to:
      (1)   Ordinance 98-30-CM which applies to speeds established in Green
Meadows Subdivision;
      (2)   Through roads located within unincorporated towns;
      (3)   Other streets on which a special condition exists that requires a
different speed limit and for which an ordinance establishes said different
speed limit.
(Ord. 99-17-CM, passed 5-3-99)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish weight limits for
county highways and bridges.
(‘82 Code, 5-85-1)
   (B)   Highway load limits.  It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
or permit to be operated, any vehicle loaded or unloaded, the gross weight of
which is in excess of the posted limit of the highway at any time when such
limit is in effect.
(‘82 Code, 5-85-2)
   (C)   Highway exceptions. No vehicle with a gross weight (including its
load) that exceeds a weight limit of a county highway shall be driven on said
highway without first obtaining written permission or permit from the County
Highway Department.
(‘82 Code, 5-85-3)
   (D)   Bridge load limits. It shall be unlawful for any person to cross any
bridge on any highway which is a part of the county highway system with any
vehicle, loaded or unloaded, when the gross weight is in excess of weight
limitations posted at the entrance of such bridge.
(‘82 Code, 5-85-4) (Ord. - -, effective 10-2-72; Am. Ord. - -, effective 6-24-
80; Am. Ord. 2010-20-CM, passed 10-4-10)
Cross-reference:
   Weight limits on specific roads, see
Chapter 72, Schedule II
§ 70.04 ALCOHOL USE IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
      CONTAINER. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13.
      IMMEDIATE AREA. The entire passenger compartment of a motor vehicle, with
the exception that:
         (a)   For station wagons, vehicles with a rear hatch opening and vans,
it is the entire passenger compartment except the area behind the area farthest
to the back of the vehicle where a seat can be affixed, regardless if such seat
is, in fact, affixed;
         (b)   For recreational vehicles, it is only the area between the
vehicle, side adjacent to the driver and front passenger seats, the glove
compartment, dashboard, interior windshield area and any cavities in the driver
and front passenger seating area.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-105.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-
150, but shall include only motor vehicles.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following individuals shall be exempt from this
section:
      (1)   A passenger of a chartered vehicle (including buses, taxicabs,
limousines, etc.) in which the driver is operating the vehicle pursuant to a
contract to provide transportation for passengers and such driver holds a valid
chauffeur’s license pursuant to I.C. 9-24-1-3.
      (2)   A passenger in a recreational vehicle, except a passenger located
in the immediate area.
      (3)   Licensed caterers transporting open containers of alcoholic
beverages so long as no human consumption occurs during transporting to and
from the destination.
   (C)   Certain consumption prohibited. Any person commits a violation of this
section who knowingly consumes an alcoholic beverage or possesses a container
that has been opened, that has a broken seal or from which some of the contents
have been removed, while in a motor vehicle that is being operated on a road or
right-of-way within the unincorporated area of the county, with the exception
that a person may possess a container that has been opened, that has a broken
seal or from which some of the contents have been removed, if such container is
possessed solely for the purpose of transporting the same or storage, contents
are not consumed in the motor vehicle, it is not present in the immediate area,
and is otherwise allowed to be possessed under Indiana State law.
   (D)   Certain operation prohibited. The operator or owner of a motor vehicle
commits a violation of this section who, while the motor vehicle is in
operation, knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in the immediate area of the
motor vehicle a container that has been opened; that has a broken seal, or from
which some of the contents have been removed.
   (E)   Signs to be posted. Signs giving notice of this prohibition of open
alcoholic beverage containers shall be posted giving notice of such regulation
at all such locations deemed appropriate by the County Highway Engineer.
(Ord. 93-19-CM, passed 6-21-93)
§ 70.05 SPEED LIMITS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   A person operating a vehicle on a county highway must comply with
speed limit signs in accordance with I.C. 9-21-5, County Code §
70.01, and County Code §
70.02.
   (B)   The county has determined on the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations that the maximum speed permitted under I.C. 9-21-5, County Code
§
70.01, or County Code §
70.02 is greater or less than reasonable and safe under the conditions that
exist on certain county highways or parts of highways. Therefore, in the event
of a conflict between those authorities and pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6 and
County Code §
70.01 (D)(l), the speeds set forth under this section shall govern to the
extent permitted by law.
   (C)   The county determines and declares that the reasonable and safe
maximum limit for these highways are the speed limits set forth in a document
entitled “Tippecanoe County Speed Limits and Traffic Control Devices,” which is
to be maintained by the county highway department. Such document shall include,
at a minimum, those locations set forth in
Schedule I of Chapter 72 of the Tippecanoe County Code so long as those
schedules remain in effect.
   (D)   A person operating a vehicle on a county highway must comply with a
stop or yield sign erected at a specified entrance to a county highway in
accordance with I.C. 9-21-4.
   (E)   The county shall install and maintain stop or yield signs at the
locations set forth in the document entitled “Tippecanoe County Speed Limits
and Traffic Control Devices,” which is to be maintained by the county highway
department. Such document shall include, at a minimum, those locations set
forth in Schedules
Ill and
IV of Chapter 72 of the Tippecanoe County Code so long as those schedules
remain in effect.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners may approve, by motion made in open
meeting, amendments to the list contained in the “Tippecanoe County Speed
Limits and Traffic Control Devices.”
   (G)   A violation under this section is a Class C infraction unless the
person exceeds a speed limit on a street or highway upon which a school is
located under I.C. 9-21-5-6(f) in which case the violation is a Class B
infraction.
(Ord. 2022-10-CM, passed 7-18-22)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates the speed regulation set forth in
§ 70.02 commits a Class C infraction.
   (C)   An individual who is issued his/her first citation for violation of
§ 70.04 shall be fined $50. The fine for each subsequent offense shall not be
less than $100 and not more than $2,500. An officer of the County Sheriff’s
Department shall issue a citation to an individual who violates
§ 70.04. Violators may be prosecuted through the county court or any other
court with jurisdiction over traffic infractions.
(Ord. 99-17-CM, passed 5-3-99; Am. Ord. 93-19-CM, passed 6-21-93)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Highway parking regulations
   
71.02   Unauthorized parking on private and public property; impoundment
   
71.03   General parking restrictions
§ 71.01 HIGHWAY PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate parking on county
highways.
(‘82 Code, § 5-82-1)
   (B)   Parking restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle upon any highway, street, or in an
alley in such a manner or under such conditions as would leave available less
than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of traffic.
      (2)   No person shall park a truck that is wider than 8 feet or higher
than 10 feet or longer than 28 feet, which dimensions shall include any load
carried thereon on any highway, street or alley, except when loading or
unloading as provided by this chapter or other ordinance of the city.
      (3)   No person shall park a semitrailer, either along or coupled to a
tractor on any highway, street or alley, that is when alone or coupled to a
tractor, wider then 8 feet, higher than 10 feet or longer than 36 feet, which
dimensions shall include any load carried thereon, except whey, loading or
unloading.
      (4)   No person shall park a bus that is wider than 8 feet or higher than
10 feet or longer than 26 feet on any highway, street or alley.
      (5)   No person shall park any vehicle whose gross weight, including any
load, exceeds 7,000 pounds on any highway, street or alley, except when loading
or unloading.
      (6)   No person shall park any vehicle wider than 7 feet on any
unimproved highway or street or any highway or street whose paved surface is
less than 40 feet, except when loading or unloading.
      (7)   No person shall park any vehicle over seven feet high within 50
feet of any intersection, except when loading or unloading.
(‘82 Code, § 5-82-2)
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The provisions of divisions (B)(2) through (6) above shall not
apply to any state highway within the county, nor to any vehicle which incurs
mechanical failure when the person in charge of the disabled vehicle has placed
one lighted flare or electric lantern at least 100 feet in front of such
vehicle and one lighted flare or electric lantern at least 100 feet to the rear
of such vehicle.
      (2)   The Sheriff may for specific purposes and for a limited time, grant
approval for parking of vehicles not in compliance with this section.
(‘82 Code, § 5-82-3) (Ord. 76-30, passed 10-4-76)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 UNAUTHORIZED PARKING ON PRIVATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Private property defined. Private property is defined as any property
that is not a dedicated public right-of-way.
   (B)   Unauthorized parking prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to park
any motor vehicle, house trailer, one, two or three wheel trailers, tractor
trailer or any other type of motorized or nonmotorized conveyance ordinarily
pulled or attached to a motor vehicle, on any private property without the
express or implied consent or authorization of the owner, holder, occupant,
lessee, agent or trustee of such property. A complaint for the violation of
this section shall be made by the owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent or
trustee of such property to the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Parking on public roadways and other public property when such creates
a hazard prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle,
house trailer, one, two or three wheel trailers, tractor trailer or any other
type of motorized or non- motorized conveyance ordinarily pulled or attached to
a motor vehicle on any public highway or other public property where such
parking constitutes a hazard or danger to the public using such highway or
other public property. This includes areas where parking is prohibited by
signs, on bridges, on the traveled portion of roadways, near fire hydrants,
where they block traffic signs from the view of motorists using the highway,
where they block the view of oncoming traffic, and any other places where the
parked vehicle interferes with traffic on the highway or constitutes a hazard
or creates a dangerous condition. A complaint for the violation of this section
may be made by any person seeing such violation to the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (D)   Complaints. A complaint for violation of this section shall be made on
the form prescribed by the County Sheriff and signed by the complainant. The
vehicle shall be ticketed for a violation of this section.
   (E)   Towing. If, in the opinion of the investigating officer, the illegal
parking of the vehicle is causing an emergency situation by preventing proper
ingress or egress of any foot or vehicular traffic from a parking lot or is
preventing free movement of traffic on the public roadway or private property,
or the record shows that the vehicle has had prior citations for violations of
this section, the investigating officer may direct the vehicle to be removed
immediately.
   (F)   Towing illegally parked vehicles on business property. The
investigating officer may direct the vehicle to be removed immediately if:
      (1)   The illegally parked vehicle is in a parking lot used for retail
establishments, professional offices, a house of worship or a public building;
and
      (2)   All vehicular entrances to the parking lot have signs posed
prohibiting such unauthorized parking, in a form prescribed by the County
Highway Department.
   (G)   Towing illegally parked for over four hours after ticketed. The
investigating officer may also direct the removal of the vehicle if the vehicle
remains illegally parked for more than four hours after the vehicle was
ticketed for parking in violation of this section.
   (H)   Removal of illegally parked vehicle. An investigating officer who
directs the removal of an illegally parked vehicle under this section shall
arrange for the same to be removed by a reputable towing company and placed in
a reputable storage or parking facility.
(Ord. 96-14-CM, passed 2-20-96)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General parking restrictions are as follows:
      (1)   A person operating a vehicle on a county highway or on county
property shall comply with the county highway or property parking restrictions.
      (2)   The county has determined that the operator of a vehicle shall not
stop, stand, or park a vehicle on certain highways or property. The county
shall post signs or pavement markings indicating the parking restrictions in
effect for the highways or property under I.C. 9-22-16.
      (3)   The county highways and property subject to parking restrictions
are set forth in a document entitled "Tippecanoe County Traffic- Control
Devices", which is to be maintained by the County Highway Department.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners may approve, by motion made in open
meeting, amendments to the list contained in the "Tippecanoe County Traffic-
Control Devices".
      (5)   The parking of vehicles in the right-of-way of any road in the
county is unlawful while the road is being paved, repaired or repaved.
      (6)   The County Highway Department or the Department's contractors or
assigns may post temporary no parking signs, clearly and conspicuously, along
any road or right-of-way in the county when they consider it necessary that
parking not be permitted to allow work within the right-of-way.
      (7)   If a road or street in the county has been posted with no parking
signs for a period of 24 hours, the County Highway Department or any contractor
or designee of the Department may order vehicles to be towed from the right-of-
way.
      (8)   If a vehicle is towed pursuant to this section, the costs of towing
and storage become a lien upon the vehicle as permitted by law. The owner of
the vehicle is required to pay the costs of towing and storage.
      (9)   If any vehicle is found upon a street, highway or public place in
violation of any provision of this section, and the identity of the operator of
the vehicle cannot be ascertained, the owner, or person in whose name the
vehicle is registered, shall be prima facie liable for the violation.
   (B)   Limited non-resident parking on certain streets and roadways in
proximity to county high schools.
      (1)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         HIGH SCHOOL. Any public or parochial school within the county and
within one mile of the streets and roadways hereinafter described, in which
there are enrolled any children from grade 10 through grade 12.
         RESIDENT. A person who maintains their true, fixed and permanent home
to which the person has, whenever absent, the intention of returning, adjacent
to the streets and roadways hereinafter described.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other than
official public or emergency vehicles, or a vehicle registered to a resident,
to park a vehicle or to permit it to be parked in or on the following streets
or roadways within the county between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.,
inclusive, on all days that the county high schools are in operation:
         (a)   Buckingham Subdivision;
         (b)   J & J Subdivision;
         (c)   Mayflower Mill Subdivision;
         (d)   McCutcheon Heights Subdivision;
         (e)   Prairie Oaks Subdivision;
         (f)   Sheffield Subdivision Part I
         (g)   Stratford Glen Subdivision;
         (h)   Traumer's Subdivision;
         (i)   Old Romney Road (Old US 231 to County Road 400 South);
         (j)   County Road 400 South (Old Romney Road to US 231);
         (k)   County Road 500 South (from US 231 to east of Mayflower Mill
School);
         (l)   Old US 231 (from Wea Creek to end).
      (3)   No parking prohibition under this division (B) shall be applicable
until the County Highway Department shall post reasonable and adequate signs
indicating the existence and extent of such "limited parking area-school" and
stating the parking limitations therein imposed.
   (C)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping, standing or
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified in
this section or indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to
stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device, or in an
unavoidable emergency.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
standing at or adjacent to the curb of any streets or roadways described herein
of a passenger vehicle temporarily for the reasonable and expeditious loading
or unloading of passengers, if such loading or unloading shall not consume more
than five minutes; nor the standing at or adjacent to the curb of any such
streets of a commercial vehicle or any vehicle actually used for a commercial
purpose, whether occupied or not, temporarily for the reasonable and
expeditious loading, unloading, delivery or pickup of materials or merchandise,
if such loading, unloading, delivery or pickup shall not consume more than 20
minutes; nor the standing of a passenger or commercial vehicle upon any such
roadway while such vehicle is temporarily disabled and during the time
reasonably necessary for its removal therefrom, if such standing shall not
consume more than 30 minutes.
   (E)   Any person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and may be fined up to $150 and all costs, including court costs,
for each violation.
   (F)   Any deputy of the County Sheriff's Department or a member or a
designee may issue a citation under the terms and conditions of this section.
   (G)   All fines and court costs imposed for parking citations shall be
payable to the general fund of the county.
(Ord. 2003-29-CM, passed 7-1-03)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Weight limits
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Yield intersections
   
V.   Signalized intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits are established on the following roads.
                                          Temp
Road/Street Location Speed limit (m.p.h.) speed    Ord. Date
                                          (m.p.h.)
                             Speed limit  Temp
Road/Street   Location       (m.p.h.)     speed          Ord.          Date
                                          (m.p.h.)
              From 215 feet
              east of
Attica        Forrest Street
Street/       to 840 feet    30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
CR 900 South  east of
              Yorktown
              Street/CR 700
              East
              From
              Greenbrier
Bayberry Lane Avenue to      20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              Burgess Drive
              (Green Meadows
              Sub.)
              From Burgess
Blueberry     Drive to
Lane          Klondike Road  20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              (Green Meadows
              Sub.)
              From CR 200 N
Burgess Drive to Greenbrier  20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              Avenue (Green
              Meadows Sub.)
              From SR 43 to
Burnetts Road North Ninth    40           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              Street Road
              From CR 375
CR 25 East    South to CR    35           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              400 South
              From Frontage
CR 50 North   Road to Shady  30           NA             95-18-CM      4-3-95
              Creek Drive
              From Shady
CR 50 North   Creek Drive to 35           NA             95-18-CM      4-3-95
              CR 550 East
              From CR 550
CR 50 South   East to        40           30 School Zone 2016-27-CM    12-19-16
              McCarty Lane
              From West
CR 50 West    Lafayette City 50           30 School Zone 99-18-CM      5-3-99
              Limits to CR
              750 North
              From CR 500
CR 75 East    North to CR    40           NA             96-39-CM      7-22-96
              600 North
              From West
CR 75 East    Lafayette City 40           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              Limits to CR
              500 North
              From CR 430
CR 100 East   South to CR    45           NA             93-04-CM      3-22-93
              510 South
              From CR 510
CR 100 East   South to CR    45           NA             99-18-CM      5-3-99
              800 South
              From SR 28 to
CR 100 East   300 feet North 45           NA             2011-08-CM    4-1-11
              of CR 1050
              South
              From CR 750
CR 100 West   North to the   50           NA             93-15-CM      3-22-93
              North County
              Line Road
              From East of
CR 100 North  Woodberry Plan 45           NA             93-14-CM      3-22-93
              Development to
              CR 775 East
              From CR 430
              South to 500
CR 150 East   feet south of  40           NA             94-27-CM      8-15-94
              Crestwood Lane
              South
              From 500 feet
              south of
CR 150 East   Crestwood Lane 45           NA             94-27-CM      8-15-94
              South to CR
              510 South
              From SR 26 to
              1,500 feet
CR 200 North  East of
(Lindberg     McCormick Road 40           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
Road)         (West
              Lafayette city
              limits)
              From Schuyler
CR 200 North  Avenue to      35           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              0.100 miles
              west of I-65
              From 0.100
CR 200 North  miles west of  45           NA             2010-01-CM    2-16-10
              I-65 to CR 400
              East
              From CR 400
CR 200 North  East to CR 600 45           NA             2005-50-CM    12-5-05
              East
              From CR 900
CR 200 North  East to 800    40           NA             2016-27-CM    12-19-16
              feet east of
              CR 950 East
              From 700 feet
CR 200 South  east of the I- 50           NA             95-12-CM      4-3-95
              65 bridge to
              Dayton Road
              From Dayton
CR 200 South  Road to CR 800 45           NA             2002-08-CM    2-19-02
              East
              From CR 800
CR 200 South  East to CR 900 50           NA             2002-08-CM    2-19-02
              East
              Lafayette City
CR 200 South  Limits to 700  45           NA             95-12-CM      4-3-95
              feet east of
              I-65 bridge
              From Morehouse
CR 225 West   Road to 250    40           NA             95-15-CM      4-3-95
              feet north of
              Big Oak Lane
              From 250 feet
CR 225 West   north of Big   45           NA             95-15-CM      4-3-95
              Oak Lane to CR
              600 North
              From 500 feet
              north of CR
CR 250 East   430 South to   40           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
              500 feet south
              of CR 430
              South
              From 500 feet
              south of CR
CR 250 East   430 South to   45           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
              500 feet north
              of Wea School
              Road
              From 500 feet
              north of Wea
CR 250 East   School Road to 35           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
              500 feet south
              of Wea School
              Road
              Lafayette City
CR 250 East   Limits to 500  45           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
              feet north of
              CR 430 South
              From 500 feet
CR 250 East/  south of Wea   45           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
CR 350 East   School Road to
              CR 700 South
              From CR 400 W
CR 250 North  to Klondike    40           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              Road
              From US 52 to
CR 250 West   2,500 feet     30           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              north of US 52
              From SR 225
CR 300 East   East to CR 800 45           NA             201 8-2 5-C M 12-17-18
              North
              Entire section
CR 300 East/  of this road,
Battle Ground which is north 30           NA             2005-50-CM    12-5-05
              of Prophets
              Rock Road
              From South
CR 300 West   River Rd to    45           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              Division Rd
CR 300 West/  From US 52 to
Morehouse     Cavalry Court  40           NA             95-20-CM      4-3-95
Road
CR 300 West/  From Cavalry
Morehouse     Court to       35           NA             95-20-CM      4-3-95
Road          Morehouse
              Court
CR 300 West/  From Morehouse
Morehouse     Court to one   45           NA             95-20-CM      4-3-95
Road          mile north of
              CR 600 North
              From one mile
CR 300 West/  north of CR
Morehouse     600 North to   50           NA             95-20-CM      4-3-95
Road          the North
              County Line
              From 1,700
CR 300 North  feet east of   55           30 School Zone 2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              CR 500 East to
              CR 900 East
              From 1,700
CR 300 North  feet east of   45           NA             2012-05-CM    2-6-2012
              CR 500 East to
              CR 400E
CR 300 West   From US 52 to  45           NA             2009-07-CM    6-1-09
              CR 450 North
              From CR 700
CR 350 East   South to CR    45           NA             94-29-CM      8-15-94
              900 South
              From SR 38 to
CR 350 South  Lafayette      50           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              corporation
              limits
              From US 231
CR 350 South  South to Old   45           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              US 231 South
              From Old US
CR 375 South  231 to CR 25   35           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              East
              From
              Eisenhower
CR 400 East   Road to 1,450  30           NA             94-31-CM      8-15-94
              feet north of
              Eisenhower
              Road
              From 1,450
              feet north of
CR 400 East   Eisenhower     25           NA             94-31-CM      8-15-94
              Road to CR 200
              North
              From CR 200
CR 400 East   North to       40           NA             2012-05-CM    2-6-2012
              Strawsma Drive
              From Strawsma
CR 400 East   Drive to CR    45           NA             2012-05-CM    2-6-2012
              300 North
              From CR 25
              East to the
CR 400 South  City of        35           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              Lafayette
              limits
              From CR 100
CR 400 South  West to US 231 40           NA             2018-25-CM    12-17-18
              South
              From Old
CR 400 South  Romney Road to 30           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              US 231
              From SR 26 to
CR 400 West   a point 1,400  35           NA             91-04-CM      3-18-91
              feet north of
              SR 26
              From a point
              1,400 feet
              north of SR 26
              to a point
              1,400 feet
CR 400 West   south of the   40           NA             91-04-CM      3-18-91
              Kankakee,
              Beaverville
              and Southern
              Railroad
              overpass over
              CR 400 West
              From a point
              1,400 feet
              south of the
CR 400 West   Kankakee,      35           NA             91-04-CM      3-18-91
              Beaverville
              and Southern
              Railroad to US
              52
              From CR 150
              East (South
CR 430 South  18th Street)   40           NA             95-16-CM      4-3-95
              to CR 250 East
              (Concord Road)
CR 430 South/ From US 52 to  45           NA             2021-01-CM    2-1-21
CR 450 South  Newcastle Road
              From CR 900
              South to City
CR 450 East   of Lafayette   50           NA             2010-08-CM    6-7-10
              Limits (south
              of US 52)
              From 800 feet
              east of CR 625
CR 450 North  East to        40           NA             2013-40-CM    12-2-13
              Ruffing Street
              (Buck Creek
              Town Limits)
CR 450 North  From SR 25 to  45           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              CR 500 East
              From CR 250
CR 450 South  East to 0.920  45           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              miles east of
              CR 250 East
              From 0.920
CR 450 South  miles east of  50           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              CR 250 East to
              CR 450 East
              From CR 350
CR 460 East   South to Old   40           NA             99-18-CM      5-3-99
              CR 350 South
              From CR 200
              South
CR 475 East/  (Lafayette
CR 500 East   City Limits)   45           NA             95-10-CM      4-3-95
              to 2,800 feet
              north of CR
              200 South
              From Jackson
CR 475 West   Highway to US  40           NA             2013-40-CM    12-2-13
              52
              From 2,800
              feet north of
CR 500 East   CR 200 South   50           NA             95-09-CM      4-3-95
              to Lafayette
              City Limits
              From Lafayette
              City Limits
CR 500 East   south of I-65  45           NA             95-09-CM      4-3-95
              to Lafayette
              City Limits
              north of I-65
              From 2,026
              feet north of
CR 500 East   CR 1200 South  40           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              to 2,842 feet
              north of CR
              1200 South
              From CR 750
              East to 1,900
CR 500 North  feet east of   30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              CR 750 East
              (Buck Creek
              Limits)
CR 500 North  From SR 43 to  40           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              Morehouse Road
CR 500 South  From Old US    35           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              231 to US 231
              From US 231 to
CR 500 South  Union Township 50           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              corporation
              limits
CR 500 South/ From Old US
CR 510 South  231 to CR 150  45           30 School Zone 2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              East
              From West
CR 510 South  County Line to 45           NA             99-18-CM      5-3-99
              SR 25
CR 550 East   From McCarty   35           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              Lane to SR 25
              From SR 26 to
              north of
CR 550 East   Heritage       30           NA             93-14-CM      3-23-93
              Estates
              Subdivision
              From north of
              Heritage
              Estates
CR 550 East   Subdivision to 45           NA             93-14-CM      3-23-93
              south of
              Woodberry Plan
              Development
              From south of
              Woodberry Plan
CR 550 East/  Development to 30           NA             93-14-CM      3-22-93
CR 100 North  east of
              Woodbury Plan
              Development
              From Morehouse
              Road to a
CR 600 North  point 622 feet 40           NA             99-18-CM      5-3-99
              west of
              Morehouse Road
              From a point
              622 feet west
CR 600 North  of Morehouse   50           NA             99-18-CM      5-3-99
              Road to CR 375
              West
              From CR 50
              West to 3,900
CR 600 North  feet west of   50           30 school zone 2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              SR 43 (Battle
              Ground Limits)
              From 3,900
              feet west of
CR 600 North  SR 43 to       40           NA             2004-24-CM    7-19-04
              Battle Ground
              Limits (east
              of SR 43)
              From 1,600
              feet south of
CR 625 East   CR 450 North   30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              (railroad
              crossing) to
              CR 450 North
              From Union
CR 625 South  Township Line  45           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              to US 231
              South
CR 650 East/  From CR 200    30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
CR 675 East   South to SR 26
              From SR 25 to
CR 650 South  3,500 feet     35           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              west of SR 25
CR 650 West
(Main         From US 52 to
Street)/      Jackson        25           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
Oxford        Highway
Street/
Walnut Street
              From 2,100
              feet north of
CR 700 East   CR 1000 South  55           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
              to South
              County Line
              Road
              From 1,560
CR 700 East/  feet north of
Yorktown      CR 900 South
Street/       (Attica        25           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
Stockwell     Street) to
Road          2,100 feet
              north of CR
              1000 South
              From SR 28 to
CR 700 West   a point 600    45           NA             2003-23-CM    5-5-03
              south of
              Walnut Street
CR 700 West   From SR 25 to  35           NA             2003-23-CM    5-5-03
              CR 400 South
              From CR 400
CR 700 West   South to       50           NA             2003-23-CM    5-5-03
              Division Road
              From a point
CR 700 West/  600 feet south
Washington    of Walnut      30           NA             2003-23-CM    5-5-03
Street        Street to SR
              25
              From CR 50
CR 750 North  West to CR 100 50           NA             93-15-CM      3-22-93
              West
              From 2,200
              feet south of
              Railroad
              Street to
CR 750 East   1,100 feet     30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              north of
              Railroad
              Street (Buck
              Creek Limits)
              From Newcastle
CR 800 East   Road to        40           NA             2016-27-CM    12-19-16
              Wyandotte Road
              From the West
CR 800 South  County Line to 45           NA             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              SR 25
              From SR 25 to
              CR 200 West.                30
CR 800 South  For exception, 50           school zone    95-19-CM      4-3-95
              see ordinance.
               
              From CR 200
CR 800 South  West to US 231 45           NA             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              S
              From SR 43 to
CR 800 South  500 feet west  50           NA             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              of CR 450 East
              From 500 feet
              west of CR 450
CR 800 South  East to 1,300  45           CM             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              feet east of
              CR 450 East
              From 1,300
              feet east of
CR 800 South  CR 450 East to 50           NA             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              600 feet west
              of Stockwell
              Road South
              From 600 feet
CR 800 South  west of        45           NA             95-19-CM      4-3-95
              Stockwell Road
              South to US 52
              From CR 900
CR 900 East   South to CR    55           NA             2003-22-CM    5-5-03
              375 South
CR 900 East   From CR 375    40           NA             2003-22-CM    5-5-03
              South to SR 38
CR 900 East   From SR 38 to  50           NA             2003-22-CM    5-5-03
              SR 26
CR 900 East   From SR 26 to  45           NA             2016-08-CM    5-2-16
              CR 100 North
              From Old SR 25
CR 900 North  to East County 45           NA             2013-03-CM    4-1-13
              Line
              From North
Dayton Road   Dayton Town    40           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              Limits to CR
              200 South
              From South
Division Road River Road to  30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              CR 300 West
              From West
Division Road County Line to 50           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              CR 700 West
              From CR 700
Division Road West to South  55           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              River Road
              From Lafayette
Eisenhower    City Limits to
Road          2,218 feet     40           NA             94-31-CM      8-15-94
              east of
              Rawlings Drive
              From 2,218
Eisenhower    feet east of   30           NA             94-31-CM      8-15-94
Road          Rawlings Drive
              to CR 400 East
              From Vermont
Frontage Road Drive to CR 50 40           NA             94-30-CM      8-15-94
              North
              From Blueberry
              Lane to
Georgton Road Klondike Road  20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              (Green Meadows
              Sub.)
              From the dead
              end of
Goldsberry    Goldsberry     25           NA             95-41-CM      10-16-95
Road          Road to 5,000
              feet west of
              Grant Road
              From 5,000
Goldsberry    feet west of   30           NA             95-41-CM      10-16-95
Road          Grant Road to
              Grant Road
              From SR 25 to
Grant Road    1,600 feet     35           NA             95-14-CM      4-3-95
              north of SR 25
              From
              Goldsberry
Grant Road    Road to 750    45           NA             95-14-CM      4-3-05
              feet north of
              Pretty Prairie
              Road
              From 750 feet
              north of
Grant Road    Pretty Prairie 50           NA             95-14-CM      4-3-95
              Road to the
              north county
              line
              From 1,600
              feet north of
Grant Road    SR 25 to       45           NA             2005-50-CM    12-5-05
              Goldsberry
              Road
              From Burgess
Greenbrier    Drive to
Avenue        Blueberry Lane 20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              (Green Meadows
              Sub.)
Harding Road  From SR 38 to  35           NA             2003-21-CM    5-5-03
              CR 900 East
              From Georgton
Ivy Hill      Road to
Drive         Blueberry Lane 20           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
              (Green Meadows
              Sub.)
              From CR 350
Jackson       North (east    35           NA             2004-25-CM    7-19-04
Highway       leg) to CR 650
              West
              From SR 26 to
Jackson       3,400 feet     45           NA             2013-40-CM    12-2-13
Highway       west of CR 475
              West
              From SR 26 to
Klondike Road 2,100 feet     40           NA             94-28-CM      8-15-94
              south of US 52
              From 2,100
Klondike Road feet south of  35           25 school zone 94-28-CM      8-15-94
              US 52 to US 52
              From US 52 to
McCormick     CR 200 North   40           NA             98-30-CM      6-15-98
Road          (Lindberg
              Road)
Newman Road   From Division  40           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
              Road to SR 26
              From Lafayette
              City Limits
North Ninth   (north of
Street        Duncan Road)   40           NA             93-05-CM      3-22-93
              to 3, 300 feet
              north of
              Duncan Road
              From a point
North Ninth   3,300 feet
Street        north of       55           NA             93-05-CM      3-22-93
              Duncan Road to
              Swisher Road
              From Swisher
North Ninth   Road to one-
Street        quarter mile   45           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              north of
              Burnetts Road
              From one-
              quarter mile
North Ninth   north of
Street        Burnetts Road  50           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              to the Battle
              Ground City
              Limits
              From 2,525
              feet south of
North River   Soldiers Home  55           NA             2021-01-CM    2-1-21
Road          Road to 650
              feet south of
              Burnetts Road
              From 650 feet
              south of
North River   Burnetts Road
Road          to 1,200 feet  45           NA             2021-01-CM    2-1-21
              north of
              Burnetts Road
              (INDOT R/W)
              From Dead End
Old CR 350    (east of US    30           NA             2011-08-CM    4-1-11
South         52) to CR 460
              East
Old Romney    From Old US
Road          231 to CR 400  30           NA             2006-24-CM    11-20-06
              South
              SR 25 to 220
Old SR 25     feet north of  45           NA             2013-05-CM    4-1-13
              South Connie
              Drive
              SR 25 to 220
              feet north of
Old SR 25     South Connie   55           NA             2013-05-CM    4-1-13
              Drive to the
              North County
              Line
              From Dead End
Old US 231    (south of CR
South         500 South) to  40           30 school zone 2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              Lafayette City
              Limits
              From Burnetts
Prophets Rock Road to 500    45           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
Road          feet south of
              CR 600 North
              From 500 feet
Prophets Rock south of CR
Road          600 North to   30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
              Battle Ground
              Town Limits
              From Ruffing
Railroad      Street to CR
Street/       750 East (Buck 30           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
CR 450 North  Creek Town
              Limits)
              From Lafayette
Schuyler      City Limit (US 45           NA             2013-05-CM    4-1-13
Avenue        52) to CR 200
              North (I-65)
Sharon Chapel From Newman    40           NA             2009-21-CM    1-21-10
Rd            Road to SR 26
Soldier s     Lorene Place
Home Road     (City Limits)  35           NA             2013-40-CM    12-2-13
              to SR 43
              Overlook Drive
Soldier s     to Prophets
Home Road     Drive (City    30           NA             2013-40-CM    12-2-13
              Limits to City
              Limits)
South River   From Division
Road          Road to US 231 45           NA             2010-14-CM    10-20-10
              South
              From US 52 to
              1560 feet
Stockwell     north of CR    50           NA             2005-01-CM    7-19-04
Road          900 South
              (Attica
              Street)
              From CR 450
Taft Road     North to       45           NA             2009-07-CM    6-1-09
              Morehouse Road
              Pretty Prairie
Tyler Road    Road to North  45           NA             2013-03-CM    4-1-13
              County Line
Wea School    From CR 150 E  45           NA             2008-21-CM    11-17-08
Road          to CR 250 E
              From 800 feet
Wyandotte     West of Dayton
Road          Road to 800    40           NA             2011-08-CM    4-1-11
              feet East of
              Dayton Road
 
   (B)   A person who violates any speed regulation set forth in this schedule
commits a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 99-18-CM, passed 5-3-99; Am. Ord. 2008-21-CM, passed 11-3-08; Am. Ord.
2009-07-CM, passed 6-1-09; Am. Ord. 2009-21-CM, passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. 2010-
01-CM, passed 2-16-10; Am. Ord. 2010-08-CM, passed 6-7-10; Am. Ord. 2010-14-CM,
passed 9-20-10; Am. Ord. 2011-08-CM, passed 3-7-11; Am. Ord. 2012-05-CM, passed
2-6-12; Am. Ord. 2013-03-CM, passed 2-19-13; Am. Ord. 2013-05-CM, passed 3-4-
13; Am. Ord. 2013-40-CM, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-08-CM, passed 3-21-16;
Am. Ord. 2016-27-CM, passed 11-21-16; Am. Ord. 2021-01-CM, passed 2-1-21)
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The following shall be the maximum weight limits on the designated
roads.
 
Road         Location          Weight Limit Exceptions    Ord.       Date
CR 400 North From CR 500 East  18 tons      See ordinance 2010-20-CM 10-4-2010
             to CR 625 East
CR 600 North From CR 775 East  18 tons      See ordinance 2010-20-CM 10-4-2010
             to CR 900 East
CR 625 East  From CR 300 North 18 tons      See ordinance 2010-20-CM 10-4-2010
             to CR 400 North
 
   (B)   A person who violates any weight limit set forth in this schedule
shall be fined $75 and all costs, including court costs, for each violation.
(Ord. 98-29-CM, passed 6-15-98; Ord. 99-15-CM, passed 5-3-99; Am. Ord. 2010-08-
CM, passed 6-7-10; Am. Ord. 2010-20-CM, passed 10-4-10)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Regulatory signs shall be established at the following locations.
Road Name Distance (in miles) Direction Cross Road Side of Road Ord. Date
             Distance                                     Side
Road Name    (in       Direction Cross Road               of     Ord.       Date
             miles)                                       Road
Abbeyville   0.0070    East      Lamplighter Trail        North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
                                                                            10-
Abnaki Drive           West of   Morehouse Road           South  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Academy                                                                     12-
Street       0.0750    East of   Oak Street               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
Adeway Court 0.0100    South of  Division Road            East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
Adina Court  0.0100    North of  Pershing Drive           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Adina Place  0.0100    South of  Pershing Drive           East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Admirals                                                                    10-
Pointe Drive           North of  CR 500 South             West   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Alex Court   0.0080    East of   Shana Jane Drive         North  2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Alice Drive  0.0090    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
Allison Road 0.0060    South of  Newman Road              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Alydar Court 0.1000    South of  Secretariat Circle       East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Alydar Drive 0.1000    South of  CR 200 North (Lindberg   East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                 Road)                                      03
Alydar Drive 0.1000    North of  Secretariat Circle       West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Alysheba     0.1000    West of   Alydar Drive             South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Court                                                                       03
Americus     0.0060    North of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Court                                                                       13
Americus     0.0070    East      Americus Road (Grant     North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Court                            Road)                                      18
Americus                                                                    4-1-
Road         0.0160    North of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 13
(Grant Road)
Americus                                                                    4-1-
Road         0.0060    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 13
(Grant Road)
Amesbury                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    North of  Monument Drive           West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Amesbury                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    South of  Monument Drive           East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Amesbury     0.0100    South of  CR 450 N                 East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Amethyst     0.0090    North of  Marcasite Boulevard      West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Amethyst     0.0090    South of  Marcasite Boulevard      East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
                                                                            12-
Andrew Road  0.0060    South of  Jefferson Street         East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Antiquity                                                                   2-
Court        0.0100    North of  Monument Drive           West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Appaloosa    0.006     West of   CR 75 East               South  2015-09-CM 5-4-
Trail                                                                       15
Appaloosa    0.006     South of  CR 600 North             East   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Trail                                                                       15
Apple Court  0.0080    West of   Apple Lane               South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Apple Lane   0.0090    South of  Jackson Highway          East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Applegate    0.0060    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Applegate    0.0050    West of   Gala Drive               South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Appomattox                                                                  12-
Court        0.0080    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Archer Court 0.0070    South of  Grosbeak Lane            East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Argyle Drive 0.006     North of  Regatta Drive            West   2015-09-CM 5-4-
                                                                            15
Ark Lane     0.0060    South of  Eisenhower Road          East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Ascot Drive  0.0100    East of   CR 550 East              North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Augusta                                                                     1-
Boulevard    0.012     South of  CR 600 N                 East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Augusta Lane 0.009     East of   Augusta Boulevard        North  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Autumn Lane  0.0090    East      Old US 231               North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
Autumn Lane                                                                 12-
North        0.0130    North of  CR 500 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            1-
Badon Drive  0.011     South of  CR 450 S                 East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Badon Drive  0.007     North of  Tristan Drive            West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Bamboo       0.008     East of   Abbeyville Drive         North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Bamboo       0.008     West of   Abbeyville Drive         South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Bamboo       0.008     East of   Leeward Lane             North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Bamboo       0.008     West of   Leeward Lane             South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Bardsdell    0.0070    East of   Ironbrand Road           North  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Bardsdell    0.0070    West of   Chivalry Drive           South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Barton Beach 0.0140    North of  Schuyler Avenue          West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Bayberry                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0070    East of   Burgess Drive            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Bayberry               Northeast                                            12-
Lane         0.1340    of        Burgess Drive            East   95-52-CM   28-
                                                                            95
Belgian Lane 0.0070    South of  Westfalen Way            East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Belgian Lane 0.0090    North of  Sorrel Drive             West   2016-08-CM 5-2-
                                                                            16
Bella Vista  0.0080    North of  CR 450 South             West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Bella Vista  0.0065    South of  Regatta Drive            East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Beringer     0.0070    South     Fieldstone Drive         East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Berwick      0.0100    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
                                                                            2-
Bethel Drive 0.0100    West of   McCormick Road           South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Bingham      0.1000    East of   Blakely Drive            North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Bingham      0.1000    West of   Bluegrass Drive          South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Biscayne                                                                    1-
Court        0.009     South of  Morallion Drive          East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Blackstone                                                                  2-
Court        0.0070    South of  Fieldstone Drive         East   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Blakely      0.1000    North of  Bluegrass Drive          West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Blueberry                                                                   12-
Lane         0.0090    West of   Burgess Drive            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Blueberry                        Klondike Road                              12-
Lane         0.0100    West of   (CR 300 West)            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Bluegrass    0.0070    East of   Chapelhill Drive         North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Bluegrass    0.0090    West of   Chapelhill Drive         South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Bluegrass    0.1000    East of   CR 550 East              North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Botanical              East of   CR 400 East              North  00-31-CM   8-2-
Lane                                                                        99
Bowfield Way           East of   Hunter Road              South  99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
                                                                            2-
Bowfield Way 0.0100    West of   Stratus Drive            South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            2-
Brazos Trail 0.0100    West of   South Wagon Wheel Trail  South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Brewster     0.0060    East of   Doten Drive              North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Brewster     0.0070    West of   Pocohontas Drive         South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
                                                                            1-
Bridle Lane  0.006     West of   CR 400 W                 South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Brittania                                                                   12-
Court        0.0100    East of   Goldersgreen Drive       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookberry                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0090    North of  Brookside Drive          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookberry                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0360    North of  CR 350 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookberry                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0120    North of  CR 350 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookdale                                                                   12-
Court        0.0070    North of  Brookside Drive          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookfield                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0090    North of  Goldersgreen Drive       East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookfield                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0100    North of  Goldersgreen Drive       West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Brookfield                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0450    North of  Haymarket Way            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Buchanan     0.0080    West of   Fergusson Drive          South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Buchanan     0.0080    South of  Sinclair Drive           East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Buckingham   0.0100    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Way                                                                         18
Buckridge                                                                   12-
Road         0.0050    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
Buckskin Way 0.0070    South of  Sorrel Drive             East   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
                                                                            2-
Buckskin Way 0.0070    North of  McCarty Lane             West   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Bull Run     0.1000    West of   South Furlong Drive      South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Bullock                                                          2018-25-   12-
Court        0.006     North of  Gainsboro Drive          West   C M        17-
                                                                            18
Bunchberry                       Flowering Crab Drive                       2-
Court        0.0100    South of  West                     East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Burgess                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0260    North of  Greenbrier Avenue        East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Burnett                                                                     12-
Cutoff       0.0100    West of   North Ninth Street Road  South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
Burton Road  0.0080    North of  Coolidge Road            West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
Burton Road  0.0030    South of  Turner Road              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Cairnapple   0.0070    South of  Lintel Drive             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Cal Drive    0.0070    East of   Ellison Drive            North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Cal Drive    0.0070    North of  Ellison Drive            West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Calumet      0.0070    East of   Flintlock Drive          North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Cameron Lane           West of   CR 550 East              South  99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
Cannonade    0.0072    West of   Secretariat Drive        South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Court                                                                       13
                                                                            1-
Carador Lane 0.006     South of  Tristan Drive            East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Carador Lane 0.006     North of  Gawain Drive             West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Cardinal     0.0060    East      Whippoorwill Drive       North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Cardinal     0.0060    West      Whippoorwill Drive       South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Cardinal                                                                    12-
Road         0.0070    North of  CR 500 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Carriage                                                                    1-
Road         0.005     West of   CR 400 W                 South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Carney                                                                      2-
Street       0.0100    East of   CR 1000 East             North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Casmiro      0.0070    South     Solemar Drive            East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
                                                                            12-
Castle Drive 0.0000    West of   Drawbridge Lane          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Castlellan                                                                  12-
Drive        0.1020    North of  Castle Drive             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Cascade      0.0060    South of  Munsee Drive             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Cathedral                                                                   2-
Court        0.0100    North of  Monument Drive           West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Cavalry                                                                     12-
Court        0.0100    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Cavendish    0.0080    North of  Tesla Drive              West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Centerview   0.0060    South of  Greenview Drive          East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Chancellor                                                                  2-
Way          0.0100    North of  Sunnycroft Place         West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Chancellor                                                                  2-
Way          0.0100    South of  Sunnycroft Place         East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Chapelhill   0.0090    East of   Bluegrass Drive          South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Chapelhill   0.0080    North of  Bluegrass Drive          West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Charismatic  0.0070    West of   Man-O-War Drive          South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Chateaugay   0.0070    West of   Secretariat Drive        South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Chattan      0.0080    North of  Sinclair Drive           West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Checkers                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0100    East of   Goldersgreen Drive       North  95-52-CM   28-
                                                                            95
Checkers                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0500    East of   Saxon Court              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Chenago      0.1000    North of  Halyard Street           West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Place                                                                       03
Chickadee                                                                   12-
Court        0.0100    West of   Chickadee Drive          South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Chickadee                                                                   12-
Drive        0.1470    North of  Chickadee Court          East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Chickadee                                                                   12-
Drive        0.0170    North of  CR 500 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Chilton      0.0060    West of   Pocahontas Drive         South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Chilton      0.0060    West of   Speedwell Lane           South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Chimney Rock 0.0080    South of  Fieldstone Drive         East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
Court                                                                       16
Chisholm                                                                    2-
Trail        0.0100    West of   West Wagon Wheel Trail   South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Chivalry     0.008     West of   Gawain Drive             South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Chivalry     0.008     East of   Gawain Drive             North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Church                                                                      12-
Street       0.0040    North of  Carney Street            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Church                                                                      12-
Street       0.0730    East of   CR 675 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Church                                                                      12-
Street       0.0560    North of  CR 700 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Church                                                                      2-
Street       0.0100    North of  CR 700 North             West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Church                                                                      2-
Street       0.0100    South of  CR 700 North             East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Church                                                                      12-
Street       0.0050    East of   Forest Street            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Church                                                                      12-
Street       0.0430    East of   Orchard Street           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Church                                                                      2-
Street       0.0100    North of  Strong Avenue            West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Church                                                                      2-
Street       0.0100    South of  Strong Avenue            East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Church                           Yorktown Street (CR 700                    7-
Street       0.0100    East of   East)                    North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Churchill                                                                   12-
Court        0.0100    West of   Brookfield Drive         South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Clallam      0.0060    South of  Munsee Drive             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Cliffside    0.0060    East of   Wexford Drive            North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Clinton      0.0060    North of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Street                                                                      13
Clydesdale                                                                  2-
Drive        0.0070    North of  Sorrel Drive             West   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Clydesdale   0.006     South of  Westfalen Way            East   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Drive                                                                       15
Colecester   0.0070    West      Silvercreek Drive        South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Lane                                                                        18
College                                                                     12-
Street       0.0940    East of   Oak Street               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Colonial                                                                    1-
Court        0.013     West of   Augusta Boulevard        South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Columbia                                                                    12-
Street       0.0450    East of   Mulberry Street          South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Columbia                         Washington Street (700                     12-
Street       0.0100    East of   West)                    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Commodores   0.006     West of   E. Commodores Lane       South  2015-09-CM 5-4-
Circle                                                                      15
Compton      0.1000    North of  Bingham Drive            West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Place                                                                       03
Compton      0.1000    South of  North Bluegrass Circle   East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Place                                                                       03
                                                                            2-
Concho Court 0.0100    South of  North Wagon Wheel Trail  East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Concord      0.0060    West of   CR 250 E                 South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Place                                                                       07
Conservation 0.0120    North of  Schuyler Avenue          West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Club Road                                                                   13
Coolidge                                                                    7-
Road         0.0100    North of  Turner Road              West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Cousteau     0.1000    North of  CR 200 North (Lindberg   West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                            Road)                                      03
CR 10 South  0.1400    East of   McCarty Lane             North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 10 South  0.0070    West of   CR 675 East              South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 50 North  1.6100    East of   Frontage Road            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 50 South  0.0100    East of   CR 550 East              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
CR 50 South  0.1500    East of   McCarty Lane             North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 50 South  0.1450    West of   McCarty Lane             South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 50 West   0.9900    North of  CR 500 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 50 West   0.0100    North of  CR 600 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 50 West   0.0100    North of  CR 750 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 75 East   0.9910    North of  CR 500 North             East              
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.0070    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.0070    North of  CR 600 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.7560    North of  CR 650 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.0070    North of  CR 725 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.9840    North of  CR 800 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.0070    North of  CR 900 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 East   0.7190    North of  Soldiers Home Road       East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 South  0.0140    East of   CR 700 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                       Southwest                                            12-
CR 75 South  0.0060    of        CR 700 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 75 South  0.0100    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 East  0.0070    North of  CR 510 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 East  1.8820    North of  CR 700 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 East  0.0060    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 East  1.9900    North of  CR 1000 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 North 0.9950    East of   CR 675 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 North 0.0070    East of   CR 775 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 North 0.5020    East of   CR 850 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 100 North 0.0080    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 100 North 1.2500    East of   CR 900 East              South  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            7-
CR 100 North 0.0060    West of   East County Line Road    South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 100 North 0.0100    East of   CR 1025 East             North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 100 South 0.0060    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 100 South 0.0060    East of   CR 1025 East             North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 100 South 0.0060    West of   CR 1025 East             South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 100 West  0.0100    North of  CR 275 South             West              
CR 100 West  1.8610    North of  CR 350 North             East              
CR 100 West  0.0090    North of  CR 350 North             West              
CR 100 West  1.1600    North of  CR 925 South             East              
                                                                            12-
CR 100 West  0.0100    North of  Kalberer Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 125 East  0.4960    North of  CR 800 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 125 East  0.0070    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 125 West  0.0100    South of  CR 925 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 125 West  0.0100    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 150 East  0.0120    North of  CR 510 S                 West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
CR 150 East  0.0080    South of  CR 510 S                 East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 150 East  0.0050    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 150 East  0.6470    North of  Wea School Road          East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 150 East  0.6470    North of  Wea School Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 150 North 0.0040    West of   CR 400 West              South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 150 South 0.0050    West of   CR 650 East              South  95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
CR 150 South 0.0100    East of   CR 800 East              North             
CR 150 South 0.9940    East of   CR 800 East              South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            7-
CR 150 West  0.9940    North of  CR 500 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 150 West  0.0070    North of  CR 500 North             West              
CR 175 West  0.0100    North of  CR 1200 South            West              
CR 175 West  0.9950    North of  CR 1300 South            East              
                                                                            12-
CR 200 East  1.6540    North of  CR 700 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 East  0.0060    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 East  1.4300    North of  CR 950 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 East  0.0080    North of  CR 1000 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 East  0.9990    North of  SR 28                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 North 0.0050    East of   CR 400 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 200 North 1.0570    East of   CR 500 East              South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            3-
CR 200 North           West of   CR 600 East              South  96-20-CM   24-
                                                                            96
                                                                            12-
CR 200 North 0.0060    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 North 0.7490    East of   CR 1025 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 200 North 0.0130    South of  Schuyler Avenue          East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 200 North 1.5560    East of   SR 25                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 South 0.0130    East of   CR 475 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 South 0.0130    East of   CR 475 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 South 0.0070    East of   CR 700 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 South 0.0100    West of   CR 700 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 200 South 0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  2007-33-CM 9-4-
                                                                            07
CR 200 South 0.0100    West of   CR 900 East              South  2007-33-CM 9-4-
                                                                            07
                                                                            2-
CR 200 South 1.0750    East of   SR 38                    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 200 South 1.0750    East of   SR 38                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 200 West  1.1650    North of  CR 925 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 225 West            North     CR 500 North             East   99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
CR 225 West  1.4940    North of  CR 600 North             West   99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
                                                                            7-
CR 225 West  0.0070    North of  CR 600 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 225 West  0.0110    North of  Morehouse Road           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 225 West  0.0070    North of  CR 500 North             West   2016-08-CM 5-2-
                                                                            16
CR 225 West  0.0070    South of  CR 500 North             East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
                                                                            16
                                                                            12-
CR 250 East  0.0060    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 250 North 0.0070    East of   CR 400 West              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 250 North 0.0060    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 250 North 0.7600    East of   CR 1025 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 250 West  0.9000    North of  CR 750 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 250 West  0.0100    North of  CR 750 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 250 West  0.0120    North of  South River Road         West              
                                                                            12-
CR 250 West  1.4550    North of  US 52                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 275 East  0.0070    North of  CR 800 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 275 East  0.0100    South of  CR 900 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 275 East  0.0100    South of  CR 950 South             East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            2-
CR 275 East  0.0100    North of  CR 1000 South            West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 300 East  0.0110    North of  Prophet’s Rock Road    West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 300 East  0.9960    North of  SR 28                    East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 300 North 0.0090    North of  CR 400 East              West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 300 North 0.4900    East of   CR 850 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 300 North 0.0110    West of   East County Line Road    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 300 North 0.006     East of   CR 500 East              North  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
                                                                            12-
CR 300 North 0.033     East of   CR 500 East              South  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
                                                                            12-
CR 300 West  0.0170    North of  South River Road         West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 325 North 0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 East  0.0100    North of  CR 300 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 East  0.0030    North of  CR 900 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 East  0.8770    North of  CR 950 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 350 East  0.0030    North of  CR 1000 South            West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 350 East                                                                 12-
(Concord                        CR 800 South                   2005-50-CM 5-05
Road)
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.0100    East of   CR 650 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.1640    East of   CR 650 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 1.1850    East of   CR 775 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.8000    East of   CR 1025 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.0100    East of   Jackson Highway          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.0140    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.0050    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 North 0.0100    East of   CR 650 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 South 0.9960    East of   CR 950 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 South 0.0090    East of   CR 1050 East             North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.0140    North of  CR 400 West              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.0080    North of  CR 750 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 350 West  1.0060    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   95
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
CR 350 West  0.0060    North of  CR 1300 South            West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.0100    North of  Division Road            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.0100    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 350 West  1.0130    North of  South County Line Road   East   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 350 West  0.0080    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.4220    North of  South River Road         East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 350 West  0.0130    North of  South River Road         West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 375 South 0.0100    East of   Old Romney Road          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 375 South 0.0070    East      Old US 231               North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
CR 375 South 0.0070    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
CR 375 West  0.4970    North of  CR 450 North             East   2006-17-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 375 West  0.9970    North of  CR 500 North             East   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 375 West  0.0070    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 375 West  0.100     North of  CR 600 North             West   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
CR 400 East  0.0050    North of  CR 200 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 East  0.0080    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 East  0.9990    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 400 East  0.0100    North of  CR 1300 South            West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 400 East  0.5170    North of  Eisenhower Road          East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 East  0.0090    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 0.0050    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 1.0020    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 1.2450    East of   CR 625 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 0.3220    West of   CR 625 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 0.0130    East of   CR 750 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 1.0080    East of   CR 800 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 North 0.0100    West of   East County Line Road    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 South 0.7400    East of   CR 25 East               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 South 0.0080    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 South 0.0100    East of   CR 700 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 400 South 0.0110    West of   CR 500 West              South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 400 South 1.3750    East of   Newcastle Road           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 400 South           West of   Newcastle Road           South  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            12-
CR 400 South 0.3000    East of   US 52                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                 CR 200 North                               12-
CR 400 West  0.0100    North of  (Lindberg Road)          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 400 West  0.9930    North of  CR 650 North             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 400 West  1.4900    North of  CR 950 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 400 West  0.0190    North of  SR 26                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 425 West  0.9960    North of  CR 500 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 425 West  0.0060    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 430 South 0.9930    East of   CR 150 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 430 South 0.4300    East of   CR 575 East              South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 450 East  0.0070    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 East  0.8030    North of  CR 900 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 East  0.0070    North of  CR 900 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 East  1.0030    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 East  0.0060    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 450 East  0.0090    North of  CR 450 South             West   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
                                                                            2-
CR 450 East  0.0090    South of  CR 450 South             East   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
                                                                            7-
CR 450 North 0.0080    East of   CR 375 West              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 450 North 0.7480    East of   CR 375 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 North 1.2500    East of   CR 625 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 450 North 0.0150    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 450 South 0.0070    East of   CR 250 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 450 South 0.0070    East of   CR 450 East              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 450 South 0.4960    East of   CR 450 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 450 South 0.0020    West of   CR 450 East              South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 450 South 0.0100    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 450 West  0.0070    North of  CR 600 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 450 West            North of  CR 850 North             West   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            10-
CR 450 West            South of  CR 850 North             East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            2-
CR 460 East  0.0100    North of  Old CR 350 South         West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            7-
CR 460 South 0.0100    East of   Newcastle Road           North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 475 East  0.9640    North of  CR 900 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 475 East  0.0100    North of  CR 900 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 475 East  1.9500    North of  Pretty Prairie Road      East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 475 East  0.7980    North of  SR 38                    West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 475 West  0.0060    South of  CR 1200 South            East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 475 West  0.0080    North of  Jackson Highway          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.9770    North of  CR 200 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0060    North of  CR 200 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  1.4300    North of  CR 300 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0110    North of  CR 300 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0100    North of  CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 500 East  0.0100    North of  CR 700 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.9840    North of  CR 1000 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0080    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.9950    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0070    North of  CR 1300 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 500 East  0.0100    North of  Old CR 350 South         West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 500 East  0.0110    South of  Old CR 350 South         East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 500 East  0.0080    North of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 500 East  0.0090    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0070    North of  Pretty Prairie Road      West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.9970    North of  South County Line Road   East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 East  0.0060    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 0.0060    East of   CR 225 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 500 North 0.2360    East of   CR 500 North             North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 1.1520    East of   CR 375 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 500 North 0.0100    East of   CR 500 East              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 1.1670    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 0.0050    East of   Morehouse Road           Center 95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 0.0060    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 0.3450    East of   Morehouse Road           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 500 North 0.0100    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 500 North 0.3450    East of   SR 25                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 500 North 0.0080    East of   CR 900 East              North  2017-12-CM 8-7-
                                                                            2017
CR 500 North 0.0080    West of   CR 900 East              South  2017-12-CM 8-7-
                                                                            2017
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 0.0080    East of   CR 100 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 0.0050    East of   CR 250 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 2.0060    East of   CR 250 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 0.7440    East of   CR 575 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 0.0000    East of   CR 600 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 0.0080    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 500 South 1.0130    East of   US 231                   South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 500 South 0.0090    East      Old US 231               North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
CR 500 South 0.0090    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
                                                                            12-
CR 500 West  0.0080    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.0110    North of  CR 200 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.9380    North of  CR 300 South             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.0070    North of  CR 300 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.0100    South of  CR 500 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.0070    North of  CR 600 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.4750    North of  Sleeper Road             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  0.0050    North of  Sleeper Road             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 500 West  1.0010    North of  SR 25                    East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 510 South 0.0140    East of   CR 150 East              North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
CR 510 South 0.0110    West of   CR 150 East              South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 510 South 0.0110    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 525 East  1.0080    North of  CR 800 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 525 East  0.0100    North of  CR 800 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 550 East  0.1000    South of  CR 50 South              4-way  2003-11-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
                                                                            12-
CR 550 East  0.0100    East of   CR 475 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 550 East  0.9710    North of  CR 900 South             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 550 East  0.0070    North of  CR 900 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 550 East  0.0110    North of  McCarty Lane             West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 550 East  0.0150    South of  McCarty Lane             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 550 East  0.1000    North of  Stable Road              4-way  2003-11-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
                                                                            12-
CR 550 North 0.0050    East of   CR 600 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 550 North 0.4890    East of   CR 700 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 550 North 1.0000    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 550 South 0.0100    East of   CR 450 East              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            2-
CR 550 South 0.0100    East of   CR 500 East              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            2-
CR 550 South 0.0100    West of   CR 500 East              South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 550 West  0.0080    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 550 West  1.9700    North of  CR 1000 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 575 East  0.9970    North of  CR 1000 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 575 East  0.0050    North of  CR 1000 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 575 East  0.0080    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 575 West  0.0130    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 575 West  0.0880    North of  SR 25                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 575 West  0.0050    North of  CR 500 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.9980    North of  CR 200 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.0050    North of  CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 600 East  0.0050    North of  CR 600 South             West              
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.9960    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.0070    North of  CR 1300 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 600 East  0.0140    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.9960    North of  South County Line Road   East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 East  0.0060    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0100    East of   CR 50 West               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0100    West of   CR 50 West               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.9910    East of   CR 375 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0070    East of   CR 775 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 1.2590    East of   CR 775 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 1.0070    East of   CR 900 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0080    East of   CR 1000 East             North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 1.0000    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0170    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 North 0.0130    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 South 0.0030    East of   Concord Road             North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 South 1.5710    East of   Concord Road             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 South 0.0050    East of   CR 450 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 South 0.4960    East of   CR 450 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 South 0.0060    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 600 South           East of   CR 700 West              North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 600 West  0.0060    North of  CR 350 North             West   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
CR 600 West  0.9950    North of  CR 600 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 West            South of  CR 600 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 600 West  0.0040    North of  CR 700 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 600 West  0.0060    South of  Hoover Road              East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 600 West  0.1200    North of  Jackson Highway          East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 600 West  0.0080    North of  Jackson Highway          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 600 West  1.6620    North of  SR 26                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 625 East  .9150     North of  CR 300 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 625 East  0.0070    North of  CR 300 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 625 East  0.4490    North of  CR 400 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 625 East  0.0060    North of  CR 400 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 625 West  0.9900    North of  CR 800 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 625 West  0.0060    North of  CR 800 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 625 West  0.0100    North of  CR 1300 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 625 West  0.9000    North of  SR 28                    East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 650 East  0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 650 North 0.0080    East of   CR 50 West               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 650 South 0.0100    West of   CR 700 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 650 South 0.0070    East of   CR 950 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 650 South 0.0030    West of   CR 950 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 650 West  0.2290    North of  CR 350 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 660 East  0.0070    South of  CR 450 North             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 660 East  0.0070    North of  Old CR 450 North         West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 660 North 0.0100    West of   CR 775 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 675 East  0.0050    North of  CR 100 North             West              
                                                                            7-
CR 675 East  0.0100    North of  CR 900 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            2-
CR 675 East  0.0100    West of   Stockwell Road           South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 680 South 0.0060    South of  CR 800 East              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 680 South 0.0060    West of   CR 900 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 700 East  0.0050    North of  CR 550 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 700 East  0.0060    East of   CR 775 East              North             
                                                                            12-
CR 700 East  0.0850    North of  CR 900 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 North 0.0100    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 700 North 1.0060    East of   CR 1000 East             South             
                                                                            12-
CR 700 North 0.0100    West of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 North 0.0060    East of   CR 200 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 0.0080    East of   CR 350 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 0.9940    East of   CR 350 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 0.0070    East of   CR 450 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 0.0080    East of   CR 700 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 0.0060    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 1.0180    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 700 South 1.4930    East of   SR 25                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 700 South 0.8590    East of   SR 43                    South  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            12-
CR 700 West  0.6030    North of  CR 75 South              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 700 West  0.0070    North of  CR 800 South             West   2017-12-CM 8-7-
                                                                            2017
CR 700 West  0.0070    South of  CR 800 South             East   2017-12-CM 8-7-
                                                                            2017
                                                                            12-
CR 725 North 0.0060    East of   CR 50 West               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 725 North 1.2480    East of   CR 50 West               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 725 North 0.0070    East of   CR 75 East               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 725 West  0.0230    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 East  0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 East  0.0130    North of  CR 300 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 East  0.8840    North of  CR 400 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 East  0.0100    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 1.2370    East of   CR 225 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 0.0060    East of   CR 300 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 0.4820    East of   CR 350 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 0.0060    East of   CR 450 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 1.9930    East of   SR 53/US 231             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 North 0.0110    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 750 South 0.0100    East of   CR 100 East              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 750 South 0.7420    East of   CR 125 East              South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 750 West  0.0140    North of  CR 125 North             West   96-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 750 West  0.0060    North of  CR 750 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 775 East  2.1780    North of  CR 140 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                       Northeast                                            12-
CR 775 East  0.0150    of        CR 700 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                       Northeast                                            7-
CR 775 East  0.3060    of        CR 700 South             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 775 East  0.0120    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            7-
CR 775 West  0.5010    North of  CR 300 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 775 West  0.0050    North of  CR 300 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 800 East  0.0040    North of  CR 200 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 800 East  0.9360    North of  CR 300 North             East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
CR 800 East  0.0090    North of  CR 400 North             West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
                                                                            12-
CR 800 East  1.0050    North of  CR 400 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 800 East  1.2010    North of  CR 680 East              East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 800 East  0.0100    South of  CR 700 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 East  0.0100    North of  Newcastle Road           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 East  0.9560    North of  SR 38                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
CR 800 North 0.0100    East of   CR 75 East               North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            2-
CR 800 North 0.0100    West of   CR 75 East               South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 800 North 0.9830    East of   CR 900 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 North 0.0080    East of   CR 1000 East             North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 North 1.0260    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 800 North 0.0130    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 800 South 1.0240    East of   CR 250 East              South             
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.0100    East of   CR 350 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.0070    East of   CR 700 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.0100    East of   CR 1000 East             North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 2.0000    East of   SR 25                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.0210    East of   Stockwell Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 South 0.9320    East of   US 52                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 West  0.0060    North of  CR 300 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 800 West  0.0110    North of  CR 350 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 825 West  0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 825 West  0.0040    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 East  0.0080    North of  CR 1175 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 East  1.2540    North of  CR 1300 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 East  0.0050    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 East  0.8720    North of  SR 26                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 850 East  0.0080    South of  CR 300 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 850 North 0.0050    East of   CR 100 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 North 1.4960    East of   CR 250 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 North 0.0110    East of   CR 300 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 850 North 0.4820    East of   CR 350 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 850 West  0.9640    North of  CR 300 South             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 850 West  0.0100    North of  CR 300 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 850 West  0.0050    North of  CR 500 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 850 West  0.0060    South of  CR 500 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 875 West  0.0100    South of  Division Road            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.9960    North of  CR 400 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.0100    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.9900    North of  CR 600 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  1.0200    North of  CR 700 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.0060    North of  CR 700 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  0.0070    North of  CR 900 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 900 East            South of  CR 900 South             East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  1.4060    North of  SR 38                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 East  1.4060    North of  SR 38                    West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 North 0.0080    East of   CR 100 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 North 1.3800    East of   CR 475 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 North 0.0090    East of   Harrison Road            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 900 North 0.0160    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 900 North 0.0100    East of   West County Line Road    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 South 0.0070    East of   CR 350 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 South 1.1900    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 South 0.0100    West of   East County Line Road    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 South 0.1000    East of   SR 28                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 900 South                     Stockwell Road (Railroad                   3-3-
(Attica      0.1000    West of   Street)                  South  2003-10-CM 03
Street)
                                                                            12-
CR 900 West  0.7780    North of  CR 600 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 West  0.9660    North of  CR 900 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 900 West  0.0050    North of  CR 900 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 900 West  0.4380    North of  SR 25                    East              
                                                                            12-
CR 925 East  0.0090    North of  CR 1300 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 925 South 0.0090    East of   CR 200 West              North  95-52-CM   95
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
CR 925 West  1.4970    North of  SR 26                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 940 West  0.0090    South of  CR 700 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 East  0.1680    North of  SR 38                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 950 East  0.0100    North of  CR 200 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            2-
CR 950 South 0.0100    East of   CR 200 East              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
CR 950 South 0.7500    East of   CR 275 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 South 0.0100    East of   CR 350 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 South 0.5010    East of   CR 350 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 South 0.0070    East of   CR 400 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 West  0.0100    South of  CR 75 South              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 West  0.0100    North of  CR 500 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 950 West  0.0100    South of  CR 600 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
CR 950 West  0.0100    South of  CR 600 South             East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            7-
CR 950 West  0.0090    North of  CR 700 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
CR 950 West  0.7000    North of  US 52                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 975 East  0.0120    North of  CR 1200 South            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 975 East  0.5070    North of  CR 1240 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 975 North 0.0070    West of   Grant Road               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            7-
CR 1000 East 0.9430    North of  CR 350 North             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            7-
CR 1000 East 0.0070    North of  CR 400 North             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 1000 East 1.0010    North of  CR 400 North             East              
CR 1000 East 0.0080    North of  CR 500 North             West              
                                                                            7-
CR 1000 East 0.0060    North of  CR 500 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 1000 East 1.0200    North of  CR 600 North             East              
                                                                            7-
CR 1000 East 1.0200    North of  CR 600 South             East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
                                                                            95;
                                                                 95-52-CM;  8-
CR 1000 East 0.0150    North of  CR 700 South             West   2006-17-CM 21-
                                                                 2007-23-CM 06
                                                                            7-
                                                                            18-
                                                                            07
CR 1000 East 0.3090    North of  CR 800 South             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            1-
CR 1000 East 0.005     North of  CR 900 South             West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
CR 1000 East 0.9960    North of  CR 1000 South            East              
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 1000 East 0.0060    North of  CR 1000 South            West   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 1000 East 0.6690    North of  Newcastle Road           East   95-52-CM;  95;
                                                                 2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
CR 1000 East 0.0100    North of  Newcastle Road           West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 1000 East 0.0090    North of  South County Line Road   West              
CR 1000 East 0.0920    North of  South Street             East              
CR 1000 East 0.0160    South of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.0100    East of   CR 100 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.9910    East of   CR 100 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.0110    East of   CR 200 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.4990    East of   CR 350 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.0060    East of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        1.2650    East of   CR 575 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.7400    East of   CR 625 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1000                                                                     12-
South        0.0070    East of   CR 700 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1025 East 0.9880    North of  CR 100 North             East              
                                                                            7-
CR 1025 East 0.0060    North of  CR 200 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 1025 East 0.0050    North of  CR 350 North             West              
CR 1050 East 1.5210    North of  CR 350 South             East              
CR 1050                                                                     2-
South        0.0100    East of   CR 800 West              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
CR 1050                                                                     2-
South        0.0100    West of   CR 800 West              South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
CR 1050                                                                     12-
South        0.9910    East of   SR 43                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
CR 1075 East 0.0070    North of  CR 500 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1075 East 0.0070    North of  Old SR 25                West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
CR 1075 East 0.0070    South of  CR 500 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1075      0.0110    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
North                                                                       13
CR 1075      0.0120    East of   CR 975 East              North             
South
CR 1075      0.7400    East of   US 52                    South             
South
CR 1150                                                                     7-
South        0.0070    East of   CR 125 West              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 1150                                                                     7-
South        0.9990    East of   CR 300 East              South  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
CR 1200      0.0100    East of   CR 300 East              North             
South
CR 1200      0.0090    East of   CR 400 West              North             
South
CR 1200      0.0090    East of   CR 400 West              North             
South
CR 1200      0.4890    East of   CR 450 East              South             
South
CR 1200      0.7450    East of   CR 475 West              South             
South
CR 1200      0.0110    East of   CR 500 East              North             
South
CR 1200      0.9970    East of   CR 600 East              South             
South
CR 1200      0.0060    East of   CR 700 East              North             
South
CR 1200      0.0100    East of   CR 975 East              North             
South
CR 1200      3.0100    East of   US 231                   South             
South
CR 1200      0.006     West of   CR 400 East              South  2015-09-CM 5-4-
South                                                                       15
CR 1200      0.006     East of   CR 400 East              North  2015-09-CM 5-4-
South                                                                       15
CR 1225      0.9360    East of   CR 725 West              South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
South                                                                       13
                                                                            12-
                                                                            18-
CR 1240      0.0040    East of   CR 625 West              North  95-52-CM;  95;
South                                                            2006-17-CM 8-
                                                                            21-
                                                                            06
CR 1250                                                                     12-
South        0.9940    West of   SR 25                    North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1300                                                                     12-
South        0.0070    West of   CR 175 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1300                                                                     12-
South        0.0060    East of   CR 400 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1300                                                                     12-
South        0.9980    East of   CR 600 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1300      0.0080    East of   CR 700 East              North             
South
CR 1300      0.0100    West of   CR 1000 East             South             
South
CR 1325                                                                     12-
South        0.7710    East of   CR 475 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
CR 1325                                                                     7-
South        0.0080    East of   CR 525 West              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Creekview    0.0090    East      Old US 231               North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Crestwood                                                                   12-
Drive North  0.0100    East of   CR 150 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Crestwood                                                                   12-
Drive South  0.0100    East of   CR 150 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Crocus Drive 0.006     South of  Gainsboro Drive          East   2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
Crocus Drive 0.008     East of   Gainsboro Drive          North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
Crooked                                                                     1-
Street       0.008     West of   Sage Street              South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Crooked      0.0070    East of   Snowberry Lane           North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Street                                                                      07
Crusade      0.0070    West of   North Candlewick Lane    South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Cushing      0.0100    North of  CR 200 North (Lindberg   West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                            Road)                                      05
Cushing      0.0095    South of  CR 250 North             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Cypress                                                                     12-
Street       0.0100    South of  CR 900 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Daffodil     0.008     East of   Gainsboro Drive          North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Daffodil                                                                    12-
Drive        0.006     South of  Gainsboro Drive          East   2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
Davis Ferry                                                                 12-
Road         0.0100    West of   North Ninth Street Road  South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Dayton Road  0.0060    South of  CR 200 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Dayton Road  0.0120    North of  Wyndotte Road            Center 95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Dayton Road  0.0100    North of  Wyndotte Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Debbie Drive 0.0090    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Delmonico    0.006     North of  Tripoli Drive            West   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Drive                                                                       15
Dentelle                                                                    2-
Street       0.0070    East of   Scoria Street            North  2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Dentelle     0.008     West of   Amethyst Place           South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
                                                                            2-
Depauw Court 0.0100    East of   Hunter Road              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            10-
DePauw Drive           East of   Hunter Road              North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            10-
DePauw Drive           West of   Hunter Road              South  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            2-
Depauw Drive 0.0100    West of   Hunter Road              South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            10-
DePauw Drive           East of   McCormick Road           North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Detchon                                                                     12-
Court        0.0060    East of   Autumn Lane North        North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Division                                                                    12-
Road         0.4360    East of   CR 350 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Division                                                                    12-
Road         0.0090    North of  South River Road         West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Division                                                                    12-
Street       0.0270    North of  CR 1200 South            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Dobson Drive 0.008     North of  Chivalry Drive           West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
Doe Path                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0100    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Doncaster    0.0100    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Donna Drive  0.0120    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Doten Drive  0.0060    North of  Chilton Drive            West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Doten Drive  0.0060    South of  Chilton Drive            East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
                                                                            12-
Douglas Road 0.0100    East of   Division Road            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Drawbridge                                                                  12-
Lane         0.0080    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                 Klondike Road                              12-
Drury Lane   0.0600    East of   (CR 300 West)            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Druze Avenue 0.008     North of  Dentelle Street          West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
Druze Avenue 0.0080    North of  Marcasite Boulevard      West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Druze Avenue 0.0080    South of  Marcasite Boulevard      East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Duckhorn     0.0070    North of  Mondavi Boulevard        West   2016-08-CM 5-2-
Lane                                                                        16
Dunbar Drive           West of   CR 550 East              South  99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
Dunston      0.1000    West of   Bluegrass Drive          South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Dunston      0.1000    East of   Compton Place            North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
                                 Jefferson Street                           7-
East Street  0.0060    South of  (CR 500 South)           East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
East County  0.0060    South of  CR 100 South             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Line Road                                                                   13
East County  0.0190    North of  CR 200 South             West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Line Road                                                                   13
East County                                                                 12-
Line Road    0.4810    North of  CR 350 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
East County                                                                 12-
Line Road    0.0070    North of  CR 400 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
East County                                                                 12-
Line Road    0.0090    North of  CR 900 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
East County                                                                 12-
Line Road    0.0050    North of  South County Line Road   West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
East County                                                                 7-
Line Road    2.0030    North of  South County Line Road   East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
East County  0.8510    North of  SR 38                    East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Line Road                                                                   13
East                                                                        8-2-
Indianbrook            South of  CR 300 South             East   99-31-CM   99
Drive
Eastbrook                                                                   12-
Drive        0.0020    South of  CR 450 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Eastbrook                                                                   12-
Drive        0.1430    West of   CR 500 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Eastbrook                                                                   12-
Drive        0.0100    West of   CR 500 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Edinburgh              West of   Sterling Drive           South  99-31-CM   8-2-
Court                                                                       99
Edison Drive 0.1000    North of  Hopkins Court            West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Edison Drive 0.1000    East of   Hopkins Drive            North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Eisenhower                                                                  12-
Road         0.0100    South of  CR 400 East              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Elbridge     0.008     North of  CR 50 South              West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Lane                                                                        21
Elbridge     0.008     South of  Haddington Lane          East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Lane                                                                        21
Elbridge     0.008     North of  Bearsden Lane            West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Lane                                                                        21
Elijah       0.0100    West of   CR 75 East               South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
Ellison      0.0070    South of  Halyard Lane             East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Ellison      0.0110    West of   Morehouse Road           South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Emerald                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0070    North of  Shadycreek Drive         West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
English Lane 0.0060    North of  Margesson Crossing       East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Ensley       0.008     North of  Dentelle Street          West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Ensley       0.0080    North of  Marcasite Boulevard      West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Ensley       0.0090    South of  Marcasite Boulevard      East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Ensley       0.0110    North of  Eppingham Drive          West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Ensley       0.0080    South of  Eppingham Drive          East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Eppingham    0.0070    West of   Amethyst Drive           South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Eppingham    0.006     East of   Druze Avenue             North  2015-09-CM 5-4-
Drive                                                                       15
Estella      0.0070    North     Solemar Drive            West   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Estella      0.0070    South     Solemar Drive            East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Farmington             East of   Flowering Crab Drive     North  99-31-CM   8-2-
Court                            West                                       99
Farmington                                                                  12-
Drive        0.0070    East of   CR 400 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Fengate      0.0090    South of  Lintel Drive             East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
Court                                                                       16
Ferdinand    0.0070    West of   Man-O-War Drive          South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Fergusson    0.0080    North of  CR 600 North             West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Fergusson    0.0080    South of  Macbeth Drive            East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Ferret                           CR 500 North                               12-
Street       0.0560    North of  (Railroad Street)        East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Ferret                                                                      12-
Street       0.0050    North of  Miller Street            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Fiddlesticks 0.0070    East of   CR 400 East              North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Fieldstone   0.0080    West of   Duckhorn Lane            South  2016-08-CM 5-2-
Drive                                                                       16
Finsbury     0.008     North of  Haddington Lane          West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Flagship     0.0080    South of  North Commodores Lane    South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Flagship     0.0070    North of  Topsail Trace            West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Fleming      0.0080    East of   Cushing Drive            North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Fleming      0.0080    East of   Cushing Drive            North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Fletcher     0.0060    East of   Fletcher Drive           North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Fletcher     0.0060    South of  Margesson Crossing       East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Fletcher     0.0090    North of  CR 450 South             West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Fletcher     0.0060    North of  Margesson Crossing       West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Flintlock    0.0100    North of  CR 600 North             West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Flintlock    0.0080    South of  Musket Way               East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Flowering                                                                   2-
Crab Drive   0.0100    South of  Farmington Drive North   East   2002-09-CM 19-
East                                                                        02
Flowermound                                                                 2-
Court        0.0100    North of  Flowermound Drive        West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Flowermound                                                                 2-
Drive        0.0100    West of   Grapevine Boulevard      South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
Foal Drive   0.006     East of   Hayloft Drive            North  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
Forest                           Attica Street (CR 900                      7-
Street       0.0100    North of  South)                   West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Forest                                                                      7-
Street       0.6700    North of  Monroe Street            East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Forthrail    0.0070    West of   Foxmoor Lane             South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Fossey Drive 0.0060    West of   Tesla Drive              South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Foxmoor Lane 0.0090    North of  CR 200 North             West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
                                                                            12-
Foxmoor Lane 0.0460    North of  Huntington Way           East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Foxwood                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0080    North of  CR 50 North              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Foxwood      0.1000    East of   Frontage Road            North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Frazier                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Eastbrook Drive          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Frontage     0.1000    South of  Foxwood Drive            East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Road                                                                        03
Frost Flower 0.0080    South of  Crooked Street           East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Frost Flower 0.0080    North of  Indigo Street            West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
                                                                            2-
Fuji Court   0.0050    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2010-01-CM 16-
                                                                            10
Funnycide    0.0080    North of  CR 200 North             West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Gainsboro                                                                   12-
Drive        0.012     West of   CR 75 East               South  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
Gala Drive   0.0050    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
                                                                            10-
Gallop Drive           North of  Stable Drive             West   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            10-
Gallop Drive           South of  Stable Drive             East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Gardenia     0.0070    North of  Gardenia Drive           West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Gardenia     0.0090    North of  CR 500 East              West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Gardenia                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Grapevine Boulevard      North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Gardenia     0.0070    West of   Orchid Drive             South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
                                                                            12-
Gate Road    0.0100    South of  Old Farm Road            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Gawain Drive 0.008     North of  Chivalry Drive           West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
Gawain Drive 0.008     South of  Chivalry Drive           East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
Gawain Drive 0.008     North of  CR 500 South             West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
                                                                            1-
Gawain Drive 0.005     East of   Glastonbury Way          North  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Gawain Drive 0.008     East of   Lamerocke Way            North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
                                                                 2018-25-   12-
Gawain Drive 0.006     West of   Lamerocke Way            South  C M        17-
                                                                            18
Genoa Drive  0.0070    East of   Paramount Drive          North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Georgton     0.0650    East of   Georgton Court           South             
Road
Gild Drive   0.0080    South of  CR 200 North             East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
                                                                            16
Glade Court  0.0100    South of  Checkers Lane            East              
Glastonbury                                                                 1-
Way          0.006     South of  Tristan Drive            East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Goddard      0.0080    East of   Cushing Drive            North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Goldenrod                                                                   12-
Court        0.0070    South of  Hillside Drive           East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Goldersgreen                                                                12-
Drive        0.0260    East of   Brookfield Drive         South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Goldersgreen                    North Brookfield Drive         2005-26-CM 8-1-
Drive                                                                       05
Goldsberry                                                                  12-
Road         0.0140    West of   Grant Road               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Grackle Lane 0.006     East of   Spoonbill Drive          North  2015-09-CM 5-4-
                                                                            15
Grackle Lane 0.006     West of   Spoonbill Drive          South  2015-09-CM 5-4-
                                                                            15
                                                                            12-
Grant Road   0.0060    North of  CR 950 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Grapevine                                                                   2-
Boulevard    0.0100    North of  CR 500 North             West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Grapevine    0.0074    East of   Flowermound Drive        North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Greenbrier                                                                  12-
Avenue       0.0090    East of   Burgess Drive            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Greenview    0.0070    South of  Greenview Drive          East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Grosbeak     0.0070    North of  Yeoman Lane              West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Gushwa Drive 0.0100    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Halyard      0.1000    East of   Ledyard Street           North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Street                                                                      03
Hampshire                                                                   12-
Down         0.0080    East of   CR 50 West               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                       Northeast                                            12-
Harding Road 0.9910    of        SR 38                    East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Harrison                         Battle Ground city                         12-
Road         2.3860    North of  limits                   East   95-52-Cm   18-
                                                                            95
Harrison     0.0120    North of  CR 900 North             West              
Road
Harter Drive                                                                12-
East         0.0100    East of   Autumn Lane North        North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Harter Drive                                                                12-
West         0.0060    West of   Autumn Lane North        South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            10-
Haven Court            South of  Taft Road                East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
                                                                            12-
Haw Lane     0.0100    West of   CR 50 West               South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Hawthorne                                                                   12-
Ridge Drive  0.0100    South of  CR 500 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Hayloft                                                          2018-25-   12-
Drive        0.006     South of  West Big Pine Drive      East   C M        17-
                                                                            18
Haymarket                                                                   12-
Way          0.0100    West of   Brookfield Drive         South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Heaton Road  1.1900    East of   CR 1000 East             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Heraldry     0.0060    South of  Tristan Drive            East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Heritage                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Brookfield Drive         North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Heritage                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Goldersgreen Drive       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Heritage                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0600    East of   Harvest Drive East       South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Homewood                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0100    North of  Taft Road                West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            8-
Hoover Road                     CR 350 North                   2006-17-CM 21-
                                                                            06
Hoover Road  0.0170    West of   CR 350 N                 South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
Hoover Road  0.0050    East of   CR 650 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            2-
Hope Court   0.0100    East of   CR 225 West              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Hopkins      0.1000    South of  CR 250 North             East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Hunter Drive                                                                12-
East         0.0070    East of   Autumn Lane North        North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Hunter Drive                                                                12-
West         0.0070    West of   Autumn Lane North        South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Huxley Drive 0.1000    East of   Cousteau Drive           North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Huxley Drive 0.0520    East of   Cousteau Drive           South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Huxley Drive 0.0280    West of   Cushing Drive            North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Huxley Drive 0.0060    West of   Cushing Drive            South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Hyacinth     0.008     West of   Abbeyville Drive         South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Lane                                                                        21
Indian Rock                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Soldiers Home Road       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            1-
Indigo Court 0.009     North of  Crooked Street           West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Indigo Court 0.010     South of  Crooked Street           East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Indigo Court 0.010     North of  Indigo Street            West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Indigo       0.0070    West of   Snowberry Lane           South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Street                                                                      07
Insignia     0.0080    South of  Mondavi Boulevard        East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
Court                                                                       16
Ironbrand    0.0060    South of  Staghorn Way             East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Road                                                                        09
Ironbrand                                                                   2-
Road         0.0060    West of   Chivalry Drive           South  2010-01-CM 16-
                                                                            10
Ironbridge   0.0080    South of  Foxmoor Lane             East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Court                                                                       09
Ironbridge   0.0070    North of  Foxmoor Lane             West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Jasmine                                                                     2-
Court        0.0070    North of  Maitland Drive           West   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Jefferson                                                                   12-
Street       0.9690    East of   Andrew Road              North  95-52-CM   18-
(500 South)                                                                 95
Jefferson                                                                   12-
Street       0.0580    East of   Mulberry Street          South  95-52-CM   18-
(500 South)                                                                 95
Jefferson                        Washington Street                          12-
Street       0.0100    East of   (700 West)               North  95-52-CM   18-
(500 South)                                                                 95
Jeremiah     0.0090    North of  Elijah Street            West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
Jonagold                                                                    2-
Court        0.0070    South of  Melrose Court            East   2010-01-CM 16-
                                                                            10
Joshua       0.0080    South of  Matthew Street           East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
                                                                            12-
Joye Court   0.0100    North of  Pershing Drive           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Karin Drive  0.0100    East of   CR 100 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            1-
Katmai Court 0.009     South of  Withrow Lane             East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            2-
Keen Street  0.0100    North of  CR 450 North             West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Keenland Way 0.0090    East of   Bluegrass Drive          South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Keenland Way 0.0070    West of   Chapelhill Drive         North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
                                                                            12-
Kerber Road  1.4610    North of  Division Road            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Kerber Road  0.0090    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Kerfoot                                                                     1-
Drive        0.006     South of  Peridia Drive            East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Keystone     0.0070    South of  Sandstone Court West     East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
King Arthur                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0100    East of   Eisenhower Road          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Kingrail     0.0070    West      Silvercreek Drive        South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Kings Creed  0.0100    South of  CR 450 South             East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Kings Creed  0.0060    North of  Tristan Drive            West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Kings Creed  0.0060    South of  Tristan Drive            East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Lakevilla                                                                   12-
Drive        0.0070    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Lamerocke                                                                   1-
Way          0.006     South of  Tristan Drive            East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Lamplighter  0.0070    West      Abbeyville Drive         South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Trail                                                                       18
Lamplighter  0.0090    South     CR 450 South             East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Trail                                                                       18
Langhorn     0.008     North of  Chivalry Drive           West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Trail                                                                       21
Langhorn     0.008     South of  Gawain Drive             East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Trail                                                                       21
Leeward Lane 0.0070    South     Lamplighter Trail        East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
Leicester                                                                   12-
Way          0.0760    North of  Chevoit Court            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Lintel Drive 0.0070    East of   Amesbury Drive           North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Lintel Drive 0.0080    West of   Amesbury Drive           South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Lockwood                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0060    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Longspur                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    North of  CR 200 North             West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
Lorene Place 0.0100    East of   Soldiers Home Road       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Lucinda Lane           East of   Shafer Drive             North  99-31-CM   8-2-
                                                                            99
                                                                            2-
Lunar Court  0.0100    North of  Monument Drive           West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Lux          0.0080    East of   CR 500 East              North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Boulevard                                                                   05
Lux Lane     0.0070    North of  Lux Boulevard            West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Lux Lane     0.0070    South of  Lux Boulevard            East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Macbain      0.0090    South of  Macbeth Drive            East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Macbeth      0.0080    North of  Buchanan Drive           West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Mackenzie    0.006     North of  Macbeth Drive            West   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Court                                                                       15
Macleod      0.006     North of  Macbeth Drive            West   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Court                                                                       15
Madison                                                                     12-
Street       0.0850    East of   Ferrett Street           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Madison                          Jefferson Street                           7-
Street       0.0040    North of  (CR 500 South)           West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Madison                                                                     7-
Street       0.0610    North of  Main Street              East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Magus Court  0.008     South of  Dolerite Court           East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
                                                                            21
                                                                            12-
Main Street  0.0570    East of   Mulberry Street          South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                 Washington Street                          12-
Main Street  0.0100    East of   (700 West)               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Maitland                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0070    East of   Morallion Drive          North  2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
                                                                            12-
Maize Drive  0.006     South of  Gainsboro Drive          East   2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
Man-O-War    0.0090    South of  Alysheba Drive           East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Marcasite    0.0130    West of   CR 250 East              South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Boulevard                                                                   09
Marcasite                                                                   2-
Boulevard    0.0070    East of   Scoria Street            North  2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Marconi      0.0060    South of  Huxley Drive             West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Marimak                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0070    North of  CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Marimak      0.0090    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Marion Dale                                                                 7-
Drive        0.0050    North of  CR 500 East              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Marlton      0.008     West of   Poinciana Drive          South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Court                                                                       21
Mason-Dixon                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0080    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Masons Ridge 0.0060    West of   Masons Ridge Road        South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Masons Ridge 0.0060    North of  Wea School Road          West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Road                                                                        07
Massaoit     0.0060    East of   Patuxet Drive            North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Matchlock    0.0070    East of   Musket Way               North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Matthew      0.0090    South of  Elijah Street            East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
Matthew      0.0090    West of   Elijah Street            South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
Maxwell      0.0070    North of  Fleming Drive            West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Maxwell      0.0079    South of  Fleming Drive            East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
McCarty Lane 0.0090    East of   CR 550 East              North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
McCarty Lane 0.0080    West of   CR 550 East              South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
McClellan              North of  Mason-Dixon Drive        West   99-31-CM   8-2-
Lane                                                                        99
McCutcheon   0.0100    East      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
McShay Court 0.1000    South of  McShay Drive             East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
McShay Drive 0.1000    West of   Priscilla Court and      South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                 Priscilla Drive                            03
McShay Drive 0.1000    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
McShay Drive 0.1000    West of   Scarlett Drive           South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
McShay Drive 0.0060    West of   Scarlett Drive           East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
(north)                                                                     07
Mead Drive   0.0070    North of  Tesla Drive              West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Mead Drive   0.0060    South of  Goodall Court            East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Melrose                                                                     2-
Court        0.0060    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2010-01-CM 16-
                                                                            10
Melrose      0.006     South of  Scarlett Drive           East   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Place                                                                       15
Mendel Drive 0.100     East of   Edison Drive             North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Meridian                                                                    12-
Line Road    0.9960    North of  CR 800 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Meridian                                                                    12-
Line Road    0.0080    North of  CR 900 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Merlin Court 0.0050    West of   King Arthur Drive        South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Michell                                                                     12-
Court        0.0100    East of   Eastbrook Drive          North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Mikel Street 0.0760    North of  Cherry Street            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Mikel Street 0.0060    North of  High Street              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Mildred                                                                     2-
Court        0.0070    North of  Nikole Drive             West   2010-01-CM 16-
                                                                            10
                                                                            12-
Miller Drive 0.0040    North of  CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Miller                                                                      12-
Street       0.0520    East of   Ferret Street            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Miller                                                                      12-
Street       0.0100    East of   CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
(CR 500                                                                     95
North)
Modernaire                                                                  4-1-
(North       0.0070    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 13
Drive)
Modernaire                                                                  4-1-
(South       0.0070    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 13
Drive)
Mondavi      0.008     East of   Beringer Drive           North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Boulevard                                                                   21
Mondavi      0.0090    West of   CR 250 East              South  2016-08-CM 5-2-
Boulevard                                                                   16
Monument                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    East of   CR 375 West              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Monroe                                                                      12-
Street       0.0780    East of   CR 675 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Monroe                                                                      12-
Street       0.0040    East of   Forest Street            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Monroe                           Jefferson Street                           7-
Street       0.0030    North of  (CR 500 South)           West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Monroe                           Jefferson Street                           7-
Street       0.0030    South of  (CR 500 South)           East   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Monroe                           Jefferson Street                           12-
Street       0.0600    North of  (500 South)              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Monroe                                                                      12-
Street       0.0050    North of  Main Street              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Monroe                                                                      12-
Street       0.0240    East of   Orchard Street           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Monroe                                                                      12-
Street       0.0040    East of   CR 700 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
(CR 900                          (Yorktown Street)                          95
South)
Monument     0.008     West of   Amesbury Drive           South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Monument     0.008     East of   Amesbury Drive           North  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Morallion                                                                   1-
Court        0.012     North of  Peridia Drive            West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Morallion                                                                   1-
Drive        0.008     South of  Peridia Drive            East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Morallion                                                                   1-
Drive        0.009     South of  Withrow Lane             East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Morehouse    0.0070    North of  CR 500 North             West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Morehouse    0.0080    South of  Taft Road                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Moss Creek                                                                  12-
Lane         0.1140    East of   Bentbrook Lane           South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Muirhead     0.0050    South of  Tristan Drive            East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Road                                                                        09
Musket Way   0.0070    West of   Munsee Drive             South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Narragansett 0.0060    East of   Patuxet Drive            North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Way                                                                         05
Natalie                                                                     12-
Court        0.0100    North of  Pershing Drive           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Natalie Lane 0.0080    South of  Shana Jane Drive         East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Natalie Lane 0.0080    North of  Shana Jane Drive         West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Natalie Lane 0.0060    South of  Pershing Drive           East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Nauset Drive 0.0060    North of  Margesson Crossing       West   2005–01-C3-7-
                                                                            05
Nauset Court 0.0070    South of  Margesson Crossing       East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Newcastle    0.0100    North of  CR 700 South             West   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Newcastle              Northwest                                            12-
Road         1.5890    of        CR 800 East              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Newcastle                                                                   12-
Road         0.0100    East of   CR 900 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Newcastle                                                                   12-
Road         0.0100    West of   CR 900 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Newcastle    1.0470    East of   CR 1000 East             South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Newcastle              Northwest                                            12-
Road         0.0080    of        Wyndotte Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Nightjar     0.006     South of  Spoonbill Drive          East   2015-09-CM 5-4-
Court                                                                       15
Nikole Drive 0.0100    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
North                                                                       3-7-
Commodores   0.0060    East of   Topsail Trace            North  2005-01-CM 05
Lane
North                                                                       3-7-
Commodores   0.0080    East of   Wharfside Parkway        North  2005-01-CM 05
Lane
North                                                                       3-7-
Commodores   0.0080    West of   Wharfside Parkway        South  2005-01-CM 05
Lane
North Connie 0.0090    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
North                            Blakely Drive and North                    3-3-
Furlong      0.1000    West of   Bluegrass Circle         South  2003-10-CM 03
Drive
North                                                                       3-3-
Furlong      0.1000    East of   CR 550 East              North  2003-10-CM 03
Drive
North                                                                       3-3-
Furlong      0.1000    West of   CR 550 East              South  2003-10-CM 03
Drive
                                                                            12-
North Street 0.0110    East of   CR 750 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
North                                                                       2-
Wilmington   0.0100    North of  Stable Drive             West   2002-09-CM 19-
Lane                                                                        02
Nottingham                                                                  12-
Place        0.0100    North of  Robinhood Lane           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Nottingham                                                                  12-
Place        0.0100    South of  Robinhood Lane           East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Oak Hill     0.0100    East      Old US 231               North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Oak Lane     0.0090    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
                                                                            12-
Oak Street   0.0100    North of  Hazel Street             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Old CR 300   0.0080    South of  CR 300 North             East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
North                                                                       13
Old CR 350   0.0060    West of   Newcastle Road           South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
South                                                                       13
Old CR 430   0.008     North of  CR 450 South             West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
South                                                                       21
Old CR 500   0.0060    East of   CR 500 East              North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
East                                                                        13
Old CR 625                                                                  4-1-
East (North  0.0050    East of   CR 625 East              North  2013-05-CM 13
Leg)
Old CR 625                                                                  4-1-
East (South  0.0060    East of   CR 625 East              North  2013-05-CM 13
Leg)
Old SR 25    0.0100    West of   SR 25 - Old SR 25        South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                 Connector                                  13
Old Mill                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0070    North of  Eisenhower Road          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Old Oak                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0050    East of   CR 225 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
(Big Oak                                                                    95
Drive)
Old Romney             South of  CR 350 South             East   99-31-CM   8-2-
Road                                                                        99
Old Romney   0.0090    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Road                                                                        18
Old US 52    0.2430    East of   US 52                    North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Old US 52    0.4610    East of   US 52                    South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Old US 231   0.0090    North     CR 500 South             West   2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
Old US 231   0.0090    South     CR 500 South             East   2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
Orchard                                                                     12-
Street       0.0550    North of  Church Street            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Orchard                                                                     12-
Street       0.0660    North of  Church Street            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Orchard      0.0070    North of  Monroe Street            East              
Street
Orchard                                                                     12-
Street       0.0800    North of  Monroe Street            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Orchard                                                                     12-
Street       0.0070    North of  Monroe Street            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Orchid Drive 0.0060    East of   Gardenia Court           North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Osprey Drive                                                                10-
South                  North of  Admirals Pointe Drive    West   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Osprey Drive                                                                10-
South                  South of  Admirals Pointe Drive    East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Osprey Drive                                                                10-
South                  West of   Chickadee Drive          North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Overlook                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0190    East of   Soldiers Home Road       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Owasco Drive 0.0070    North of  Halyard Lane             West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Paloma Court 0.0070    West      Fieldstone Drive         South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
                                                                            18
                                                                            12-
Patrick Lane 0.0560    North of  Douglas Road             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Patrick Lane 0.0100    North of  South River Road         West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Patuxet      0.0060    South of  Margesson Crossing       East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Pershing                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0100    West of   CR 400 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Pershing     0.0060    East of   Mar Ruth Drive           North  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Pioneer                West of   South Brookfield Drive   South  99-31-CM   8-2-
Drive                                                                       99
Poinciana    0.008     North of  McNeel Court             West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Poinciana    0.008     South of  Morallion Drive          East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Drive                                                                       21
Plumjack     0.008     South of  Mondavi Boulevard        East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Lane                                                                        21
Pocohontas   0.0060    North of  Margesson Crossing       West   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Pocahontas   0.0060    South of  Margesson Crossing       East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Prairie                                                                     7-
Street       0.0060    North of  CR 900 South             West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Prairie Dog                                                                 2-
Road         0.0100    South of  North Wagon Wheel Trail  East   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Pretty                                                                      12-
Prairie Road 2.0790    North of  Tyler Road               East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Priest Drive 0.0060    East of   Doten Drive              North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Priest Drive 0.0060    West of   Pocohontas Drive         South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Priscilla    0.1000    East of   Scarlett Drive           North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Promenade    0.0100    West of   CR 250 East              South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Parkway                                                                     09
Prophet                                                                     12-
Drive        0.0109    West of   Soldiers Home Road       South  95-52-CM   18-
North                                                                       95
Prophet                                                                     12-
Drive South  0.0109    West of   Soldiers Home Road       South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Prospect                                                                    7-
Street       0.0060    East of   CR 700 East              North  2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Raintree                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0100    West of   CR 250 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Red Oaks                                                                    12-
Lane         0.0790    East of   Red Oaks Court           West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Redfree      0.1000    West of   Scarlett Drive           South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Court                                                                       03
Redfree      0.1000    West of   Priscilla Drive          South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Rhyolite     0.008     West of   Rhyolite Drive           South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Court                                                                       21
Rhyolite     0.008     North of  Dolerite Court           West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Court                                                                       21
Rhyolite     0.008     South of  CR 450 North             East   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Court                                                                       21
Robinhood                        CR 200 North                               12-
Lane         0.0100    North of  (Lindberg Road)          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Rockhill     0.0070    East of   Fiddlesticks Drive       North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Rockhill     0.0070    West of   Fiddlesticks Drive       South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Rockhill     0.0080    West of   Stergen Drive            South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Rolling Hill                                                                12-
Drive        0.0770    North of  Timber Lane              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Rolling Hill                                                                12-
Drive        0.0140    North of  Timber Lane              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Rosewood                         Klondike Road                              12-
Drive        0.0100    West of   (CR 300 West)            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Roundtable                                                                  2-
Drive        0.0100    West of   CR 140 West              South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Ruffing                          Railroad Street                            7-
Street       0.0050    North of  (CR 500 North)           West   2007-23-CM 18-
                                                                            07
Rutherford   0.0090    West      Klondike Road            South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Sabin Street 0.1000    West of   Wright Court             South  2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
                                                                            1-
Sage Street  0.011     South of  CR 500 S                 East   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
                                                                            1-
Sage Street  0.010     North of  Indigo Street            West   2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Saintsbury   0.0090    South of  Mondavi Boulevard        East   2016-08-CM 5-2-
Court                                                                       16
Sandstone    0.0070    East of   Masons Ridge Road        North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court East                                                                  07
Sandstone    0.0080    West of   Masons Ridge Road        South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court West                                                                  07
Scheck Court 0.0070    East of   Natalie Lane             North  2009-02-CM 3-2-
                                                                            09
Secretariat  0.1000    East of   Alydar Drive             North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Circle                                                                      03
Secretariat  0.0072    South of  Alysheba Drive           East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
Secretariat  0.0080    East of   Man-O-War Drive          North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Secretariat  0.0090    West of   Man-O-War Drive          South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
                                                                            1-
Selwyn Drive 0.006     East of   Peridia Drive            North  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Shady Creek  0.1000    North of  Foxwood Drive            West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Drive                                                                       03
Shady Creek                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0108    North of  CR 50 North              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Shafer Drive 0.0040    North of  CR 450 North             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Shafer Drive 0.0060    South of  Old SR 25                East   2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Shana Jane   0.0060    South of  Pershing Drive           East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Shana Jane   0.0100    West of   CR 400 East              South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Sharon                                                                      10-
Chapel Road            North of  Newman Road              West   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Sharon                                                                      10-
Chapel Road            South of  Newman Road              East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Shearwater                                                                  10-
Court                  South of  Osprey Drive South       East   97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Sheldrake                                                                   2-
Court        0.0070    North of  Ringneck Road            West   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
                                                                            12-
Shiloh Court 0.0100    East of   Morehouse Road           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Shiron Drive 0.0100    East of   Marimak Drive            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Shootingstar 0.0070    West of   Shootingstar Lane        South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
Shootingstar 0.0080    North of  CR 500 North             South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Lane                                                                        05
Shootingstar 0.0080    East of   Shootingstar Lane        North  2016-08-CM 5-2-
Way                                                                         16
Silvercreek  0.0090    North     CR 600 North             West   2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
Sinclair     0.0100    East of   CR 50 West               North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Sinclair     0.0080    North of  Macbeth Drive            West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
                                                                            12-
Sloans Court 0.0100    West of   Goldersgreen Drive       South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Snap Dragon                                                                 1-
Court        0.010     East of   Sage Street              North  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Snowberry    0.0110    South of  CR 500 South             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Snowberry    0.0080    North of  Indigo Street            West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Soldiers                                                                    12-
Home Road    0.0070    East of   CR 75 East               North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Solemar      0.0090    East      Morehouse Road           North  2018-02-CM 3-5-
Drive                                                                       18
South                                                                       10-
Brookfield             North of  Stable Drive             West   97-41-CM   20-
Drive                                                                       97
South                                                                       10-
Brookfield             South of  Stable Drive             East   97-41-CM   20-
Drive                                                                       97
South Connie 0.0100    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Drive                                                                       13
South Connie                                                                12-
Drive        0.5780    East of   SR 25                    South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
South County                                                                12-
Line Road    1.5070    East of   CR 300 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
South County                                                                12-
Line Road    0.0100    East of   CR 400 West              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
South County                                                                12-
Line Road    0.0080    East of   CR 450 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
South County                                                                12-
Line Road    0.9950    East of   CR 600 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
South County                                                                12-
Line Road    0.0120    East of   CR 700 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
South Street 0.0040    East of   Main Street           North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Spinel       0.008     North of  Dentelle Street          West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Street                                                                      21
Spinel       0.0090    North of  Marcasite Boulevard      West   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Spinel       0.0080    South of  Marcasite Boulevard      East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Spinel       0.0090    South of  Eppingham Drive          East   2009-02-CM 3-2-
Street                                                                      09
Spinnaker    0.1000    North of  North Admirals Pointe    West   2003-10-CM 3-3-
Trace                            Drive                                      03
SR 25 - CR                                                                  4-1-
900 East     0.0110    East of   CR 900 East              North  2013-05-CM 13
Connector
SR 25 - CR                                                                  4-1-
500 East     0.0070    West of   CR 500 East              South  2013-05-CM 13
Connector
                                                                            10-
Stable Drive           East of   CR 500 East              North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Stacey       0.0100    East of   CR 600 East              North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Hollow Drive                                                                13
Stacey                                                                      12-
Hollow Lane  0.0060    South of  Stacey Hollow Drive      East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Stair Road   0.0070    West of   Old SR 25                South  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Sterling               North of  CR 50 North              West   99-31-CM   8-2-
Drive                                                                       99
Stergen      0.0080    East of   Fiddlesticks Drive       North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Stockwell
Road         0.1000    South of  CR 700 East              East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
(Railroad                        (Commercial Street)                        03
Street)
Stockwell                                                                   12-
Road         1.0290    North of  CR 900 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Strawsma                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0060    East of   CR 400 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Strong                 East of   CR 1000 East and CR 700                    2-
Avenue       0.0100    CR 1000   North                    North  2002-09-CM 19-
                       East                                                 02
Sugar Creek  0.0090    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
Road                                                                        13
Sugar Maple                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0080    East of   Vermont Drive            North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Summit Lane  0.0180    East of   Old SR 25                North  2013-05-CM 4-1-
                                                                            13
Sunnycroft                                                                  2-
Place        0.0100    East of   CR 400 West              North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            12-
Taft Road    0.6490    East of   CR 450 North             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Taino Drive  0.0070    East of   Musket Way               North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
                                                                            05
Taino Court  0.0060    South of  Munsee Drive             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
Tamiami                                                                     12-
Trail        0.0100    East of   Soldiers Home Road       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Tenskwatawa                                                                 12-
Drive        0.0100    South of  CR 900 North             East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Tesla Drive  0.0050    West of   Cousteau Drive           South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
                                                                            07
                                                                            2-
Thad Court   0.0100    East of   Shana Jane Drive         North  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
                                                                            2-
Thad Court   0.0100    West of   Shana Jane Drive         South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Three                                                                       2-1-
Meadows      0.008     East of   Klondike Road            North  2021-01-CM 21
Drive
Three                                                                       2-1-
Meadows      0.008     North of  Three Meadows Drive      West   2021-01-CM 21
Place
Tiffany      0.0070    North of  Shady Creek Drive        East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Court                                                                       05
                                                                            12-
Timber Lane  0.0080    West of   Rolling Hill Drive       South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Topsail      0.0070    East of   Wharfside Parkway        North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Trace                                                                       07
Topsail      0.0050    West of   Wharfside Parkway        South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Trace                                                                       07
Topsail      0.0080    West of   East Commodores Lane     South  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Trace                                                                       07
Trees Drive  0.0090    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
(North)                                                                     18
Trees Drive  0.0090    West      Old US 231               South  2018-02-CM 3-5-
(South)                                                                     18
                                                                            12-
Trent Court  0.0100    South of  Checkers Lane            East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Tripoli                                                                     2-
Drive        0.0070    South of  Regatta Drive            East   2017-01-CM 21-
                                                                            17
Tristan      0.0070    West of   Peebleshire Lane         South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Tristan      0.0060    West of   Kings Creed Drive        South  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
Tristan      0.0060    East of   Kings Creed Drive        North  2009-02-CM 3-2-
Drive                                                                       09
                                                                            2-
Trophy Court 0.0100    West of   Amesbury Drive           South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Trotter                West of   South Brookfield Drive   South  99-31-CM   8-2-
Drive                                                                       99
Turnberry                                                                   1-
Court        0.010     West of   Augusta Boulevard        South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Twilight                                                                    2-
Drive        0.0100    West of   Midnight Drive           South  2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Twin Lakes   0.008     North of  Three Meadows Drive      West   2021-01-CM 2-1-
Circle                                                                      21
Twin Lakes   0.008     West of   Twin Lakes Circle        South  2021-01-CM 2-1-
Circle                                                                      21
                                                                            12-
Tyler Road   0.0170    North of  Pretty Prairie Road      West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
                                                                            12-
Valley Drive 0.0100    North of  Division Road            West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Valmori      0.0050    East of   Gallegos Drive           North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Valmori      0.0070    West of   Musket Way               South  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Vicksburg              South of  Mason-Dixon Drive        East   99-31-CM   8-2-
Lane East                                                                   99
Vicksburg              South of  Mason-Dixon Drive        East   99-31-CM   8-2-
Lane West                                                                   99
Wagon Wheel                                                                 12-
Trail North  0.0590    East of   Concho Court             South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wagon Wheel                                                                 12-
Trail South  0.0630    East of   Sundown Court            South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wake Robin                       CR 200 North                               12-
Drive        0.0100    North of  (Lindberg Road)          West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wake Robin   0.0070    South of  Grosbeak Lane            East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Drive                                                                       05
Walnut                                                                      12-
Street       0.0500    North of  Hoover Road              East   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Walnut                                                                      12-
Street       0.0090    North of  Hoover Road              West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Walnut                                                                      12-
Street       0.0570    East of   Mulberry Street          South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Washington                                                                  12-
Street       0.0100    West of   Main Street              South  95-52-CM   18-
(CR 700                                                                     95
West)
Wea School                                                                  12-
Road         0.0070    East of   CR 150 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wea School                                                                  12-
Road         0.2410    East of   CR 200 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wea                                                                         12-
Woodlands    0.0100    South of  CR 625 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
Drive                                                                       95
West Big                                                                    12-
Pine Drive   0.012     East of   CR 50 West               North  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
West                                                                        3-7-
Candlewick   0.0070    East of   Crusade Drive            North  2005-01-CM 05
Lane
West                                                                        3-7-
Candlewick   0.0070    West of   Crusade Drive            South  2005-01-CM 05
Lane
West                                                                        8-2-
Indianbrook  0.0070    South of  CR 300 South             East   99-31-CM   99
Drive
Wexford      0.0060    East of   Wexford Drive            North  2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Wexford      0.0070    South of  CR 100 North             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Drive                                                                       07
Wharfside    0.0070    South of  North Admiral’s Pointe East   2005-01-CM 3-7-
Parkway                          Drive                                      05
Whippoorwill                                                                12-
Drive        0.0040    North of  CR 500 South             West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Whirlaway    0.1000    East of   Alydar Drive             North  2003-10-CM 3-3-
Court                                                                       03
Willowbrook                      CR 200 North                               2-
Drive        0.0100    North of  (Lindberg Road)          West   2002-09-CM 19-
                                                                            02
Willowood                                                                   12-
Drive        0.0060    East of   CR 400 East              North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wilmington   0.0090    South of  Stable Drive             East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Wilmington   0.0080    North of  Wilmington Circle        West   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Lane                                                                        07
Wilson Drive                                                                12-
(Autumn      0.0040    South of  CR 500 South             East   95-52-CM   18-
Lane)                                                                       95
Wintercrest                                                                 12-
Court        0.012     East of   CR 550 East              North  2018-25-CM 17-
                                                                            18
                                                                            1-
Withrow Lane 0.009     West of   Morallion Drive          South  2008-03-CM 22-
                                                                            08
Wolflake                                                                    10-
Drive                  East of   CR 500 East              North  97-41-CM   20-
                                                                            97
Wolflake               West of   South Brookfield Drive   South  99-31-CM   8-2-
Drive                                                                       99
Woodfield                                                                   12-
Street       0.0120    East of   Soldiers Home Road       North  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Woodpecker                                                                  12-
Road         0.0050    West of   CR 250 West              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wright Court 0.1000    South of  Cousteau Drive           East   2003-10-CM 3-3-
                                                                            03
Wyandotte                                                                   12-
Road         0.0100    West of   CR 900 East              South  95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Wyandotte                                                                   9-
Road                            Newcastle Road                 2005-38-CM 19-
                                                                            05
Wycliffe                                                                    12-
Drive        0.0070    North of  Yale Drive               West   95-52-CM   18-
                                                                            95
Yellowknife  0.0100    South of  Pretty Prairie Road      East   2007-10-CM 2-5-
Court                                                                       07
Zinnia       0.0070    East of   Gardenia Court           North  2005-01-CM 3-7-
Street                                                                      05
CSXT         Bennett   West of   US 231                   North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
CSXT         Bennett   West of   US 231                   South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
CSXT         CR 925    West of   US 231                   North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             South                                                          13
CSXT         CR 925    West of   US 231                   South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             South                                                          13
CSXT         CR 1200   West of   US 231                   North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             South                                                          13
CSXT         CR 1200   West of   US 231                   South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             South                                                          13
KBSR         CR 250    West of   Klondike Road            North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
KBSR         CR 250    West of   Klondike Road            South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
KBSR         CR 475    South of  US 52                    East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             West                                                           13
KBSR         CR 475    South of  US 52                    West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             West                                                           13
KBSR         CR 800    South of  US 52                    East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             West                                                           13
KBSR         CR 800    South of  US 52                    West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             West                                                           13
KBSR         Lindberg  East of   Klondike Road            North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
KBSR         Lindberg  East of   Klondike Road            South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           Adams     South of  SR 38                    East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           Adams     South of  SR 38                    West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           Burton    South of  Turner Road              East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           Burton    South of  Turner Road              West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           CR 600    West of   CR 1000 East             North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
NS           CR 600    West of   CR 1000 East             South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
NS           CR 800    West of   East County Line         North  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
NS           CR 800    West of   East County Line         South  2013-10-CM 4-1-
             North                                                          13
NS           CR 950    South of  SR 38                    East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             East                                                           13
NS           CR 950    South of  SR 38                    West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             East                                                           13
NS           CR 1075   South of  SR 38                    East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             East                                                           13
NS           CR 1075   South of  SR 38                    West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             East                                                           13
NS           Newcastle North of  Old CR 350 South         East   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
NS           Newcastle North of  Old CR 350 South         West   2013-10-CM 4-1-
             Road                                                           13
 
(Am. Ord. 2009-02-CM, passed 3-2-09; Am. Ord. 2010-01-CM, passed 2-16-10; Am.
Ord. 2013-05-CM, passed 3-4-13; Am. Ord. 2013-10-CM, passed 3-18-13; Am. Ord.
2015-09-CM, passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. 2016-08-CM, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 2017-
01-CM, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-12-CM, passed 7-17-17; Am. Ord. 2018-02-CM,
passed 1-16-18; Am. Ord. 2021-01-CM, passed 2-1-21)
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following roads at the locations indicated shall be regulated as yield
intersections.
Road Name Distance  (in miles) Direction Cross Road Side of Road Ord. Date
Road Name   Distance   Direction Cross Road         Side of Ord.       Date
            (in miles)                              Road
Abnaki Way             South of  Abnaki Drive       East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Abnaki Way             North of  Chenango Place     West    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Abnaki Way             South of  Chenango Place     East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Arrowhead   0.0100     East of   Bent Tree Road     North              
Drive
Ascot Drive 0.0060     West of   Farrier Place      South   2013-05-CM 4-1-13
Atwood                 North of  Pioneer Drive      West    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Atwood                 South of  Trotter Drive      East    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Barnwell               West of   Gallop Drive       South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Barnwell               East of   Saddle Drive       North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Barnwell               West of   Saddle Drive       South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Bennington  0.0080     North of  Vermont Drive      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Place
Bluster     0.1000     South of  Bluster Court      East    2003-10-CM 3-3-03
Drive
Bluster     0.0100     South of  Cumulus Drive      East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Bluster     0.1000     North of  Stratus Drive      West    2003-10-CM 3-3-03
Drive
Bobolink    0.0100     North of  Grackle Lane       East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Bowfield               South of  Depauw Drive       East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Way
Brazos      0.0940     East of   Brazos Circle      South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Trail
Brighton    0.0070     North of  Beriwick Drive     West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Brighton    0.0070     South of  Berwick Drive      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Drive
Buckingham             North of  Buckingham Drive   West    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Circle
Buckingham             North of  Buckingham Drive   West    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Way
Bull Run               East of   South Brookfield   North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive                            Drive
Bur Oak     0.0700     North of  Red Oaks Lane      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Lane
Bur Oak     0.0080     North of  Red Oaks Lane      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Lane
Caleb Court 0.0080     South of  Nikole Drive       East    2010-01-CM 2-16-10
Cardiff     0.0070     North of  Berwick Drive      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court North
Cardiff     0.0080     South of  Berwick Drive      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court South
Cardinal    0.0210     South of  Wharfside Parkway  East    2007-10-CM 2-5-07
Drive
Cardinal    0.0180     East of   Wharfside Parkway  North   2007-10-CM 2-5-07
Drive
Castlewood  0.0070     North of  Goldersgreen Drive West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Centennial  0.0070     East of   Hunter Road        North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court East
Centennial  0.0070     West of   Hunter Road        South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court West
Chimneylake            West of   South Brookfield   South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive                            Drive
Chimneylake            North of  Wolflake Drive     West    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Chisholm    0.0100     West of   North Wagon Wheel  South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Trail                            Drive
Chisholm    0.1310     Southeast Strawhat Drive     West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Trail                  of
Cirrus      0.0100     South of  Cumulus Drive      East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Court
College     0.0040     East of   Forest Street      North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
College     0.0640     East of   Forest Street      South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
College     0.0060     East of   Oak Street         North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
Cormorant   0.0100     North of  Admiral's Pointe   West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive                            Drive
CR 100 West 0.0060     South of  CR 400 South       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 150 East 1.0160     North of  South County Line  East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
                                 Road
CR 250      0.0157     West of   Klondike Road      South   2021-01-CM 2-1-21
North
CR 300 East 0.0070     North of  CR 1300 South      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 300 East 1.0010     North of  South County Line  East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
                                 Road
CR 300 East 0.0060     North of  South County Line  West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
                                 Road
CR 350 West 0.0060     North of  CR 1300 South      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 450 East 0.0080     North of  CR 1300 South      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 450 East 0.9920     North of  South County Line  East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
                                 Road
CR 475 West 0.0200     North of  CR 1325 South      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 550      0.0100     East of   CR 1000 East       North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
North
CR 550 West 0.0100     South of  CR 700 South       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 550 West 1.4690     North of  CR 850 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 750 West 1.5160     North of  CR 750 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 750 West 0.9540     North of  CR 900 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 750 West 0.0060     North of  CR 900 North       West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 800 West 0.0100     South of  CR 1300 South      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 825 West 0.8900     North of  CR 1200 South      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 850 East 0.0090     North of  CR 1300 South      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 850 East 0.9960     North of  South County Line  East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
                                 Road
CR 850 West 1.0020     North of  CR 500 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 850 West 2.0210     North of  CR 600 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 850 West 0.0050     North of  CR 600 North       West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 900 West 1.5200     North of  CR 750 North       East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 900 West 0.0080     North of  CR 750 North       West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 900 West 0.0040     North of  CR 900 North       West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
CR 1150     0.0100     East of   CR 300 East        North   2010-01-CM 2-16-10
South
Crossbow    0.0100     North of  Roundtable Drive   West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Court
Crossbow    0.0100     South of  Roundtable Drive   East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Court
Cumberland  0.0157     East of   Klondike Road      North   2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Avenue
Cumulus     0.0100     East of   Stratus Drive      North   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Depauw                 West of   Hunter Road        South   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Court
Depauw                 East of   Hunter Road        North   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Double Tree 0.0060     North of  Casad Drive        West    2007-10-CM 2-5-07
Drive
Douglas     0.2500     East of   Division Road      South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Road
Emerald     0.0100     West of   Emerald Drive      South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Equestrian  0.1000     South of  North Furlong      East    2003-10-CM 3-3-03
Drive                            Drive
Equestrian  0.0100     North of  South Furlong      West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive                            Drive
Farmington  0.0070     East of   CR 400 East        South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Drive
Farmington  0.0060     South of  Farmington Drive   East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Place
Faxon Drive 0.0100     North of  Pioneer Drive      West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Faxon Drive 0.0100     South of  Trotter Drive      East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Flatlake               West of   South Brookfield   South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Court                            Drive
Gallop      0.0100     North of  Trotter Drive      West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Grackle     0.0100     West of   Longspur Drive     South   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Grapewine   0.0100     South of  Grapevine Drive    East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Boulevard
Grapewine   0.0100     West of   Grapevine Drive    South   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Court
Grosbeak    0.0100     East of   Bobolink Drive     North   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Lane
Hickory                North of  Oak Lane           West    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
Hickory                South of  Oak Lane           East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
King Arthur 0.0110     East of   Lockwood Drive     East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Drive
Kittiwake   0.0100     East of   Admiral's Pointe   North   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Court                            Drive
Klondike    0.0157     North of  CR 250 North       West    2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Klondike    0.0157     South of  Cumberland Avenue  East    2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Klondike    0.0157     North of  Lindberg Road      West    2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Klondike    0.0157     South of  Lindberg Road      East    2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Lindberg    0.0157     East of   Klondike Road      North   2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Lindberg    0.0157     West of   Klondike Road      South   2021-01-CM 2-1-21
Road
Lionheart              East of   Mason-Dixon Drive  North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
Lionheart              West of   Mason-Dixon Drive  South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
Lionheart   0.0100     West of   North Shining      South   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Lane                             Armor Lane
Lochan                 West of   Foxmoor Lane       South   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Court
Locksley    0.0100     South of  Shining Armor Lane East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Lane
Lucinda     0.0780     East of   Gertrude Lane      South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Lane
Lux Lane    0.0060     North of  Frederick Drive    West    2005-01-CM 3-7-05
Lux Lane    0.0060     South of  Casad Drive        East    2007-10-CM 2-5-07
Marble Arch 0.0080     South of  Goldersgreen Drive East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Way
Mason-Dixon            South of  Hadley Drive       East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
McCutcheon  0.0030     East of   McCutcheon Drive   North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Mikel       0.0050     North of  Elm Street         West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
Mikel       0.0740     North of  Walnut Street      East               
Street
Mondavi     0.0140     East of   Silverado Drive    North   2016-08-CM 5-2-16
Boulevard
Mondavi     0.0140     West of   Silverado Drive    South   2016-08-CM 5-2-16
Boulevard
Monroe      0.0080     East of   CR 675 East        North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
Monroe      0.0100     North of  Main Street        East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
North
Candlewick  0.0100     North of  Roundtable Drive   West    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Lane
North
Shining     0.0100     South of  Roundtable Drive   East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Armor Lane
North                            South Furlong
Wilmington  0.0100     South of  Drive              East    2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Lane
North                            South Furlong
Wilmington  0.0070     North of  Drive              West    2005-01-CM 3-7-05
Lane
North
Wilmington  0.0070     South of  Trackside Drive    East    2005-01-CM 3-7-05
Lane
Norwick     0.0100     East of   Trowbridge Drive   North   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Nottingham  0.0070     East of   Berwick Drive      North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Drive
Nottingham             South of  Buckingham Drive   East    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Oak Street  0.0500     North of  College Street     East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Osprey                 South of  Osprey Drive South East    97-41-CM   10-20-97
Court
Osprey                 East of   Admiral’s Pointe North   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive East                       Drive
Petunia     0.006      North of  Appaloosa Trail    West    2015-09-CM 5-4-15
Place
Prairie Dog 0.0060     North of  Wagon Wheel South  West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Road
Prairie     0.0060     North of  Monroe Street      East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Street
Prion Court            West of   Admiral’s Pointe South   99-31-CM   8-2-99
                                 Drive
Razmic Way  0.0060     North of  Casad Drive        West    2007-10-CM 2-5-07
Red Oaks    0.0080     North of  Red Oaks Lane      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Robinhood   0.0100     West of   Robinhood Lane     South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Place
Roundtable             East of   Mason-Dixon Drive  North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Roundtable             West of   Mason-Dixon Drive  South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Saddle                 West of   South Brookfield   South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive                            Drive
Secretariat 0.1000     East of   Man-O-War Drive    North   2003-10-CM 3-3-03
Circle
Secretariat 0.1000     West of   Man-O-War Drive    South   2003-10-CM 3-3-03
Circle
Shining     0.0080     East of   Mason-Dixon Drive  North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Armor Lane
Shining     0.0620     East of   Roundtable Court   South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Armor Lane
Silverado   0.0140     North of  Mondavi Boulevard  West    2016-08-CM 5-2-16
Drive
Silverado   0.0140     South of  Mondavi Boulevard  East    2016-08-CM 5-2-16
Drive
South
County Line 1.6890     East of   CR 700 West        South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Road
Sprinter               East of   Gallop Drive       North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Drive
Stacey
Hollow      0.0100     South of  Stacey Hollow Lane East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court
Stacey      0.0100     North of  Stacey Hollow      West    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Hollow Way                       Drive
Stacey      0.0110     North of  Stacey Hollow      West    2013-05-CM 4-1-13
Hollow Way                       Drive
Stacey      0.0090     East of   Stacey Hollow      North   2013-05-CM 4-1-13
Hollow Way                       Place
Stanton                North of  Pioneer Drive      West    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Stanton                South of  Trotter Drive      East    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Sterling               South of  Cameron Lane       East    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
Stratford   0.0100     East of   Trowbridge Drive   North   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Drive
Stuart                 East of   Sterling Drive     North   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Court
Summit      0.0070     East of   Summit Lane        North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Terrace
Tassel      0.0070     East of   Hunter Road        North   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court East
Tassel      0.0070     West of   Hunter Road        South   95-52-CM   12-18-95
Court West
Temple                 East of   Hunter Road        North   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Court East
Temple                 West of   Hunter Road        South   99-31-CM   8-2-99
Court West
Trackside   0.0070     East of   Equestrian Drive   North   2005-01-CM 3-7-05
Drive
Trego Court 0.006      South of  Peridia Drive      East    2008-03-CM 1-22-08
Vicksburg   0.0100     South of  Mason-Dixon Drive  East               
Lane
West
Candlewick             East of   Crusame Drive      North   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
West
Candlewick             West of   Crusame Drive      South   97-41-CM   10-20-97
Lane
Wharfside   0.0310     North of  Cardinal Drive     West    2007-10CM  2-5-07
Parkway
Windflower  0.0100     West of   Longspur Drive     South   2002-09-CM 2-19-02
Place
Wizard      0.005      West of   Glastonbury Way    South   2008-03-CM 1-22-08
Court
Wycliffe                        Foxmoor Lane              95-05-CM   2-6-95
Drive
Wycliffe    0.2920     North of  Yale Drive         East    95-52-CM   12-18-95
Drive
Yarmouth               North of  Norwick Drive      West    99-31-CM   8-2-99
Drive
 
(Am. Ord. 2009-02-CM, passed 3-2-09; Am. Ord. 2010-01-CM, passed 2-16-10; Am.
Ord. 2013-05-CM, passed 3-4-13; Am. Ord. 2015-09-CM, passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord.
2016-08-CM, passed 3-21-16; Am. Ord. 2021-01-CM, passed 2-1-21)
SCHEDULE V. SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS.
   The following roads at the locations indicated shall be regulated as
signalized intersections.
 
Road Name   Cross Road                            Ord.       Date
CR 50 West  CR 500 North                          2021-01-CM 2-1-21
CR 250 East 300 feet north of Marcasite Boulevard 2015-09-CM 5-4-15
Old SR 25   CR 300 North/Deems Drive              2013-05-CM 4-1-13
 
(Ord. 2013-05-CM, passed 3-4-13; Am. Ord. 2015-09-CM, passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord.
2021-01-CM, passed 2-1-21)
CHAPTER 73: TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
Section
   
73.01   Title
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Travel advisory
   
73.04   Classification of transportation or snow emergencies
   
73.05   Prohibition of parking on roadways
   
73.06   Stalled vehicles during transportation or snow emergency
   
73.07   Removal, impounding and return of vehicle
   
73.08   Citation on vehicle
   
73.09   Evidence with respect to vehicles parked or left in violation
   
73.10   Action required from utility companies to remove damaged utility system
components from roadway
   
73.11   Declarations of the Commissioners
   
73.12   Termination of transportation emergency by the Commissioners
   
73.13   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Transportation
Emergency Ordinance of Tippecanoe County, Indiana".
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County, Indiana.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-105.
   ROADWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of the right-of-way of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel located in the unincorporated areas of
the county.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A particular type of travel emergency caused by winter
weather conditions including ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing and
drifting snow and/or blizzards; a condition declared to be such by the Board of
Commissioners or their authorized representative.
   TRAVEL ADVISORY. An advisory communication issued to warn vehicle operators
of conditions which present a hazard to the normal operation of motor vehicles
on roadways. A travel advisory may be issued for a hazardous event which
affects the normal use of roadways as determined by the County Sheriff, Highway
Superintendent and/or Emergency Management Director but does not impose any
restrictions on travel, or parking motor vehicles, other than those normally
required by law.
   TRAVEL WATCH or TRAVEL EMERGENCY. A situation, actual or impending, which
represent hazardous conditions for the normal use of roadways which may be
caused by or result from accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow,
blowing and drifting snow, blizzards, flood water, high water, wind caused
damage, roadway damage or other hazardous event; a condition declared to be
such by the Board of Commissioners or their authorized representative to
regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles during emergency
situations.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.03 TRAVEL ADVISORY.
   Whenever the County Sheriff, the County Highway Department Superintendent
and the County Emergency Management Director, or their respective designees
jointly find, on the basis of existing conditions of ice, freezing rain, sleet,
snow, blowing and drifting snow, high water or damage debris on roadways or
other hazardous conditions which may present hazardous situations to the normal
operation of motor vehicles on the roadways and that motor vehicle operators
need to be aware of these conditions to maintain the safe operation of their
motor vehicles, then the Sheriff, Superintendent, or EMA Director, or their
respective designees, on consultation and agreement between the officials, may
cause to be issued a travel advisory for parts of or all roadways as determined
necessary. Travel advisories may be issued for hazardous conditions which do
not warrant an immediate emergency declaration by the Commissioners.
   (A)   The Sheriff, Superintendent or EMA Director shall cause each advisory
issued by the respective official pursuant to this chapter to be publicly
announced by means of broadcasts from radio stations located within and with a
normal operating range covering the county. They may cause the advisory to be
further announced in newspapers or of general circulation when feasible. Each
advisory shall be describe the situation threatening motor vehicle operation on
roadways, the time the advisory will be effective and shall specify the
roadways or area affected.
   (B)   Whenever the Sheriff, Superintendent or EMA Director or their
designees find jointly that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to a
travel advisory being issued no longer exists, they may terminate the advisory,
in whole or in part. The termination shall be announced in the same manner
required to issue the original advisory and shall become effective upon
announcement.
   (C)   No unusual restriction or prohibition on the parking of motor vehicles
or on the operation of motor vehicles upon roadways shall be imposed or implied
under a travel advisory. The travel advisory is not regulatory in nature.
   (D)   A travel watch or travel warning declared by the Commissioners
pursuant to this chapter will supersede a travel advisory issued for the same
causative event and same roadways or area.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.04 CLASSIFICATION OF TRANSPORTATION OR SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   There shall be two classifications of transportation or snow emergencies
which may be declared by the Commissioners to control highway use.
   (A)   Travel watch: essential travel permitted.
      (1)   This classification is determined by the Commissioners to be a
significant emergency event. Roadways have, or are expected to have,
significant accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow or significant
blowing and drifting snow or high water covering large areas of roadways to a
dangerous depth or numerous trees, limbs, utility poles and/or power lines or
other damage debris reported on roadways. Roadways or major sections of the
roadway network are closed or impassible. Travel may be significantly delayed
and there exists a risk of injury to motorists exposed to the existing
conditions.
      (2)   Only essential travel is permitted. Essential travel shall include
travel to and from work; travel to obtain essential medical care or required
prescription medications; travel to obtain essential supplies of food, fuel or
safe shelter and travel of emergency vehicles and emergency workers engaged in
emergency operations. All non-essential travel is prohibited. Vehicle operators
shall exercise all due caution in the operation of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Travel warning: travel prohibited.
      (1)   This classification is determined by the Commissioners to be a
crippling emergency event. Roadways have, or are expected to have, heavy
accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, or snow or heavy blowing and
drifting of snow or blizzard conditions; very high water covering or closing
large areas of roadways or washouts or of road surface, road bed, culverts,
bridge approaches or bridges or widespread trees, limbs, utility poles and/or
power lines or other damage debris are reported on roadways. The major portions
of the roadway network is are closed or impassable. Conditions make it
impossible to safely operate roadway maintenance equipment. Travel exposes
motorists to significant risk of injury or death.
      (2)   All roadways are closed to non-emergency vehicles and personnel.
Travel is prohibited to all persons with the exception of the following who are
at the time engaged in necessary emergency or critical occupations operations:
         (a)   Emergency personnel including rostered members of law
enforcement agencies, fire departments, emergency medical service providers,
search and rescue organizations, rescue squads, military organizations,
disaster relief organizations, emergency management personnel and requested
mutual aid personnel.
         (b)   Critical occupations personnel including employees of railroad
companies, utility companies, highway departments, towing and wrecker services,
fuel delivery suppliers, news media and hospital and healthcare organizations.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.05 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioners declare a travel watch or travel warning or
otherwise invoke a classification described in §
73.04 of this chapter determining that existing or expected weather conditions
or other hazardous situations will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic
be expedited or prohibited and that parking on county roadways be prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing, debris removal, access for emergency vehicles,
evacuation or other emergency purposes the Commissioners shall put into effect
a parking prohibition on parts of or all roadways as necessary by declaring a
transportation or snow emergency.
   (B)   The parking prohibition shall become effective concurrently with the
declaration of a travel watch or travel warning.
      (1)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until the transportation or snow emergency is terminated by announcement
of the Commissioners in accordance with this chapter. While the prohibition is
in effect, no person shall park a vehicle or allow a vehicle to remain parked
on any portion of a roadway to which the transportation or snow emergency
applies.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.06 STALLED VEHICLES DURING TRANSPORTATION OR SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason on any part of the roadway
on which a transportation or snow emergency or parking prohibition is in effect
as declared by the Commissioners, the person operating the vehicle shall take
immediate action to have the vehicle towed, removed or pushed off the roadway.
No person shall abandon or leave a vehicle in the roadway (regardless of
whether he indicates, by raising of hood or otherwise, that the vehicle is
stalled), except for the purpose of securing assistance during the actual time
necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station
or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.07 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Employees of the County Sheriff’s Department and County Highway are
authorized to remove or have a vehicle removed from a roadway to the nearest
garage or other place of safety, including another place on a roadway, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Sheriff’s Department, Highway Department
or a facility maintained by the county when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of the roadway on which a
transportation or snow emergency or parking prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a roadway on which a
transportation or snow emergency or parking prohibition is in effect and the
person who was operating the vehicle does not appear to be removing it in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the vehicle presents a
hazard to traffic, snow, or debris removal or other emergency operations;
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provisions of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow or debris
removal or any other emergency operations.
   (B)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes or has
a vehicle removed a vehicle from a roadway as authorized in this section and
the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department knows or is able to ascertain
from the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately
attempt to give or cause to be given notice in writing to the owner of the fact
of the removal and the reasons therefore and of the place to which the vehicle
has been removed. In the event any vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy
of the notice shall be given to the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes or has
removed a vehicle from a roadway under this chapter and does not know and is
not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable
to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three days, the
Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately send or cause to
be sent a written report of the removal by mail to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of the
notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be
stored. The notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the
date, time and place from which removed, the reason for the removal, and the
name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with this
section except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of the
vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been placed
or impounded, the owner shall present to a member of the County Sheriff’s
Department or authorized towing service evidence of the owner's identity and
right to possession of the vehicle, shall sign a receipt for its return and
shall pay the cost of removal plus any costs of storage accrued. Until paid,
these charges constitute a lien on the vehicle which may be enforced in
conformance with I.C. 32-8-31-5 or I.C. 9-9-5-6.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department
to keep a record of each vehicle it has removed in accordance with this
section. The record shall include a description of the vehicle, its license
number, the date and time of its removal, where it was removed from, its
location, the name and address of its owner and last operator, if known, its
final disposition, and the parking violation involved. The towing service
authorized by the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department to remove the
vehicle shall obtain the record for each vehicle removed by the towing service
for which a Sheriff’s Department vehicle tow-in card is not provided. The
authorized towing service shall provide said records to the Sheriff’s
Department for each vehicle so removed.
   (F)   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles pursuant to this
chapter, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department may enter into towing
contracts or agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned vehicles.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle is removed nor the Highway Department, County Commissioners
or Sheriff’s Department, authorized towing service, or automobile scrap yard
shall be liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle occurring during its
removal, storage or disposition. Neither County Highway Department nor any
employees of its employees, nor any private contractor engaged by the
department shall be held liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle which is
parked, stalled or abandoned on a roadway during snow or debris removal
operations.
   (H)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Sheriffs Department authority to remove vehicles.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.08 CITATION ON VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle is parked or left without a driver in violation
of this chapter, and is not removed and impounded as provided for in this
chapter, the officer of the Sheriff’s Department finding the vehicle may take
the vehicle' s registration number and any other information displayed on the
vehicle which may identify its registered owner, and shall conspicuously affix
a traffic summons to the vehicle in the manner and pursuant to the same
procedures applicable to the issuance of other traffic violations.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.09 EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO VEHICLES PARKED OR LEFT IN VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this chapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
defendant was the person who parked or left the vehicle in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.10 ACTION REQUIRED FROM UTILITY COMPANIES TO REMOVE DAMAGED UTILITY SYSTEM
COMPONENTS FROM ROADWAY.
   Whenever employees of the County Highway Department or the County Sheriff’s
Department find the property of a utility company, including utility poles,
utility structures, transmission or distribution wires, guy wires,
transformers, regulators, meters, or other appurtenances are damaged and are
obstructing, interfering or about to interfere with roadway travel, snow or
debris removal operations or other emergency operations, they shall cause the
appropriate utility company operator to be notified of the obstructing
property. The utility company operator shall take immediate and necessary
action to render property or components safe and to facilitate removal of the
property or components from the roadway.
   (A)   A knowledgeable employee shall be dispatched to each reported site
where damaged utility property obstructs roadways in a timely manner.
   (B)   The employee shall take necessary steps to de-energize the affected
damaged utility system or otherwise render the damaged system safe for the
removal of components which obstruct roadways.
   (C)   When the affected damaged utility system is de-energized or otherwise
rendered safe, the employee or utility operator shall report this information
to the County Highway Department and/or the Sheriff’s Department and will
coordinate any further debris clearance procedures as required.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.11 DECLARATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may declare a transportation or snow
emergency: travel watch or travel warning, as set forth in §
73.04 based upon recommendations and situation reports provided by the County
Sheriff, County Highway Department Superintendent, or County Emergency
Management Agency Director or their respective designees.
   (B)   Once declared, the transportation or snow emergency classification may
be up-graded, down-graded, extended or terminated by action of the
Commissioners.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall cause each declaration made by them pursuant
to this chapter to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts from radio and
television stations located within and with a normal operating range covering
the county. They may cause the declaration to be further announced in newspaper
of general circulation when feasible. Each announcement shall describe the
action taken by the Commissioners, including the time said action became or
will become effective, and shall specify the roadways or area affected. A
transportation emergency shall go into effect when designated.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.12 TERMINATION OF TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY BY THE COMMISSIONERS.
   Whenever the Commissioners find that some or all of the conditions which
gave rise to a transportation or snow emergency no longer exist, they may
declare the emergency terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner prescribed
by this chapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.13 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by declaration of the
Commissioners or upon occurrence of certain weather or hazardous conditions
shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence over other provisions of
law normally in effect, except that it shall not take precedence over
provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized
emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic directions by a law enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
73.08 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction.
   (C)   An officer of the County Sheriff’s Department shall issue a citation
to an individual who violates §
73.08 of this chapter. The fine for a first offense shall be $50. The fine for
each subsequent offense shall not be less than $100 and not more than $2,500.
Violators may be prosecuted through any Tippecanoe County court with
jurisdiction over traffic infractions.
(Ord. 2011-24-CM, passed 10-17-11)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC IN A RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Authority to enter into contracts
   
74.03   Liability
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT CONTRACT. A contract entered into between the Sheriff or the
Sheriff's designee with the owner of a residential complex to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   MOVING TRAFFIC VIOLATION. A violation occurring in the operation of a motor
vehicle while the motor vehicle is in motion and which would be a violation of
Indiana law if committed upon a public roadway.
   RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX. Any multi-unit residential complex that contains at
least five units and which contains private drives, roadways, or streets.
(Ord. 2020-02-CM, passed 3-16-20)
§ 74.02 AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to enter into enforcement contracts
on behalf of Tippecanoe County with an owner of the residential complex who
submits in writing to the Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe County a request
that Tippecanoe County enforce this residential complex traffic regulation
chapter.
   (B)   An enforcement contract must comply with the requirements of I.C. 9-
21-18-4.3 and this section.
   (C)   The enforcement contract must require the owner of the residential
complex to install signs notifying residents of and visitors to the residential
complex of the relevant portions of this chapter. Such signs must be placed in
a sufficient number of locations to clearly mark where this chapter applies. A
sign placed at the entrance to the complex does not satisfy this division.
   (D)   The enforcement contract may not charge the owner of the residential
complex a fee for enforcing this chapter.
   (E)   Enforcement of this chapter may not begin until the enforcement
contract is executed by the owner and the Sheriff or the Sheriff's designee.
   (F)   All revenue derived from fines, penalties, or other charges shall be
distributed in the same manner as if the fines, penalties, or other charges
arose out of violations committed on a public roadway.
(Ord. 2020-02-CM, passed 3-16-20; Am. Ord. 2021-16-CM, passed 7-19-21)
§ 74.03 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-18-4.3(i), an owner that enters into an
enforcement contract is not subject to liability or other adverse legal
consequence arising out of the manner in which a law enforcement agency
discharges its duties under the enforcement contract.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-18-4.3(j), a residential complex or its owner is
not subject to liability or adverse legal consequence for not entering into an
enforcement contract. The failure to enter into an enforcement contract is not
admissible in any legal proceeding brought against a residential complex or its
owner.
(Ord. 2020-02-CM, passed 3-16-20; Am. Ord. 2021-16-CM, passed 7-19-21)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to commit a
moving traffic violation at or within a residential complex at which the county
and an owner have entered into an enforcement contract under this chapter.
   (B)   An electronic ticket for the moving traffic violation shall be issued
in the same manner as if the violation had been committed on a public roadway.
   (C)   The fine for a violation shall be the same as if the violation had
occurred on a public roadway.
(Ord. 2020-02-CM, passed 3-16-20)
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
         
91.   RESERVED
         
92.   FAIR HOUSING
         
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
94.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
         
95.   PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS
         
96.   STREETS AND HIGHWAYS
         
97.   CONSUMER FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Application
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Prohibited acts
   
90.04   Inoculation
   
90.05   Restraint
   
90.06   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.07   Habitual offender
   
90.08   Impoundment
   
90.09   Reclaiming and redeemding impounded animals
   
90.10   Mandatory microchipping and sterilization
   
90.11   Enforcement
   
90.12   Animal Control Fund
   
90.13   Feral cat colonies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 APPLICATION.
   Except as provided in division (B), this chapter does not apply to animals
kept in the business of commercial farming. Nothing in this chapter is intended
to limit the applicability or enforcement of zoning ordinances in Tippecanoe
County including, without limitation, those restricting the number of animals
permitted in a given area.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), the provisions in §
90.03(A)(1) and (A)(2) which prohibit an owner from permitting an animal to be
at-large or damage the property of another shall apply also to animals kept in
the business of commercial farming.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. An animal, the possession of which has been voluntarily
relinquished by its owner without vesting ownership or the right to possession
in any other person.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The individual designated as Animal Control Officer
by the Sheriff of Tippecanoe County or, if no designation has been made, the
Sheriff of Tippecanoe County. The Animal Control Officer may, further, delegate
duties under this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility for the sheltering and disposal of impounded,
abandoned, or surrendered animals with which Tippecanoe County has an agreement
for provision of such services.
   AT LARGE. An animal not under the immediate control of an individual or
restrained by an enclosure, leash, chain, or other device of actual physical
restraint. This definition applies regardless of whether the animal is on or
off the premises of its owner.
   HAZARDOUS ANIMAL. An animal that attacks, bites, or injures humans or
domesticated animals without adequate provocation or an animal with a known
propensity to attack, bite, or injure humans or domesticated animals.
   NUISANCE. An animal that unreasonably annoys a person other than the owner,
that endangers the health of individuals or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the rights of others to quiet enjoyment of their life or
property.
   OFFICIAL WARNING. A written notice, without further sanction, of a violation
of this chapter from the Animal Control Officer or his designee to the owner of
an animal.
   OWNER. A person that owns, keeps, or harbors an animal. For purposes of this
chapter, a person that feeds or shelters an animal for three consecutive days
or more is an owner of the animal. However, a person who feeds or shelters a
feral cat will not be regarded as an OWNER under this section if the person
notifies the Animal Control Officer of the feral cat within 24 hours of first
feeding or sheltering the feral cat.
   RESTRAINT. Securing an animal by means of a leash or lead while:
      (1)   On the real property of the owner or other person who consents to
the animal's presence; or
      (2)   Under the control of the owner or other willing individual capable
of being responsible for the animal.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   An owner shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   Permit an animal to be at-large.
      (2)   Permit an animal to damage the property of another.
      (3)   Permit an animal to molest or intimidate pedestrians, bicyclists,
or other passers-by.
      (4)   Permit an animal to chase vehicles.
      (5)   Permit an animal to make excessively disturbing noises including,
without limitation, continued or repeated howling, barking, whining, or other
noises unreasonably disturbing the quiet enjoyment of life or property by
neighbors or others in close proximity to the animal.
      (6)   Cause or allow the owner's animals to cause fouling of the air by
odor in a manner that unreasonably disturbs the quiet enjoyment of life or
property by neighbors or others in close proximity to the animal.
      (7)   Cause or allow the owner's animals to cause unsanitary conditions
in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored or subject
the animals to unsanitary conditions which are hazardous to the health or well-
being of the animal.
      (8)   Maintain animals in quantity or type that is offensive or dangerous
to public health, safety or welfare or maintain animals in a quantity greater
than the owner can properly care for such that conditions are hazardous to the
health or well-being of the animal.
      (9)   Cause or permit an animal to attack other domestic animals.
      (10)   Abandon an animal.
      (11)   Permit an animal to be a nuisance animal within the meaning of §
90.02.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, failure of the owner to control the
animal either actively or through the use of an enclosure or physical
restraint, constitutes "permission" to engage in the activities described in
division (A). The fact that an animal was at-large shall create a rebuttable
presumption that the owner failed to control, enclose, or physically restrain
the animal.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 INOCULATION.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and other animals specified by 345 IAC 1-5 or other
applicable state law must be inoculated against rabies prior to reaching three
months of age and not less than every three years thereafter. It is the duty of
the dog's owner, as defined in this chapter, to ensure that the dog is
inoculated. The owner shall retain documentation of the inoculation and produce
it to the Animal Control Officer upon request.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to impose an obligation on the
county to inoculate animals.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   This section is in addition to the other responsibilities imposed by
this chapter and shall not be construed to limit those responsibilities.
   (B)   The owner of a dog or cat in heat shall confine the animal in a
building or secure enclosure that prevents the animal from coming into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding purposes.
   (C)   The owner of a hazardous animal shall confine the animal within a
building or secure enclosure except that the animal may be allowed out of such
confinement provided that the animal is muzzled and under the immediate control
of the owner or other responsible individual by means of a leash. If the
enclosure is in the nature of a fence, to be compliant with this division, the
enclosure must be secured with a lock while the animal is confined.
   (D)   Dogs restrained through rope, chain, or cable must have unobstructed
freedom of movement of a minimum of 12 feet and an arc of not less than 180
degrees. This division does not apply to the use of a leash while the dog is
being walked.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   An owner must provide the owner's animal with humane care and
treatment which includes, without limitation, proper nutrition and potable
water, proper air and ventilation, sanitary conditions, sufficient shelter
space and protection from weather, adequate exercise, and veterinary care
sufficient to prevent suffering. This division shall be construed to prohibit,
without limitation, leaving an animal unattended in a vehicle when the
conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal. As
used in this division, "adequate exercise" means the opportunity for the animal
to move sufficiently to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for the age,
species, size, and condition of the animal.
   (B)   A person may not abuse an animal through beating, cruelty, mutilation,
torment, overload, overwork, or otherwise. Additionally, a person may not abuse
an animal by subjecting the animal to inhumane environmental conditions that
are detrimental to the animal's health and welfare.
   (C)   A person may not cause, instigate, or permit a dogfight or other
combat between animals or between humans and animals.
   (D)   A person who injures or kills a domestic animal through use of a motor
vehicle must immediately stop, render such assistance as is possible, and
report the injury or death to the animal's owner. If the owner cannot be
ascertained or located, the person must report the injury or death to the
Sheriff.
   (E)   A person may not endanger an animal by placing a poisonous substance
in a manner such that it is likely to be consumed by a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 HABITUAL OFFENDER.
   An individual who has received three or more warnings, citations, or a
combination thereof for violations of this chapter shall be deemed a habitual
offender. It shall be an affirmative defense, with the burden of proof on the
alleged offender, that one or more of the qualifying three citations or
warnings was unjustified. A prior citation for which the individual prevailed
in a challenge is not a qualifying citation for purposes of this section. A
citation or warning which was issued more than ten years prior to the most
recent warning or citation is not a qualifying citation or warning for purposes
of this section.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall enter into an agreement with one or
more animal shelters with facilities within the county. The agreement must
provide for acceptance by the animal shelter of impounded animals and
notification of impoundment by the shelter to the animal's owner as described
herein. The agreement shall also provide for the collection and remittance of
redemption fees for impounded animals. An agreement under this division or
division (H) may include a provision allowing the county to bring, as an
assignee, subrogee, or otherwise, an action against an owner for money owed to
the shelter or facility by the owner for services provided under this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer may impound the following animals:
         (a)   Unrestrained animals.
         (b)   Nuisance animals.
         (c)   Animals that are at-large or otherwise not properly confined,
secured, or restrained.
         (d)   Abandoned animals.
         (e)   Animals that are not being humanely treated.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall determine whether an owner may
reclaim and redeem the animal. The decision shall be at the Animal Control
Officer's discretion but must give due consideration to the reason for
impoundment. In cases involving the inhumane treatment of animals, such
consideration shall also include whether the owner has corrected or remediated
the condition giving rise to the impoundment. The Animal Control Officer shall
inform the animal shelter receiving the animal of the officer's determination.
   (C)   Impoundment for the violations described in division (B) may take
place upon the Animal Control Officer's direct knowledge of the violation or
upon the submission of a written, verified complaint to the Animal Control
Officer if the Officer determines the complaint to be credible.
   (D)   In lieu of impoundment, the Animal Control Officer may, at the
discretion of the Officer, issue a written warning for violations described in
division (B).
   (E)   Within 24 hours of impoundment, the animal shelter receiving the
animal shall notify the owner, if known, of the impoundment. The notification
may be made by direct communication with the owner or by means of telephone or
by deposit of written notice in the ordinary United States mail, postage pre-
paid. The notice must advise the owner of whether and under what terms an
animal may be reclaimed and redeemed. In the event the owner is not known,
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the county is
permitted but not required.
   (F)   The Animal Control Officer shall comply with a court order that
directs the officer to impound an animal. The Animal Control Officer may apply
to the court for a bond to secure the costs of complying with such an order.
   (G)   In the case of an animal suffering from rabies, mange, or other
infectious or contagious disease or from a condition that leaves the animal
severely debilitated, the Animal Control Officer may determine that the animal
must be destroyed immediately. If the Animal Control Officer makes such a
determination under this division, the animal may be destroyed by the animal
shelter or other means without prior notice to the owner.
   (H)   Notwithstanding division (A), the Board of Commissioners may enter
into agreements, on a case-by-case basis, for impoundment of exotic animals,
large animals, or other animals for which the shelter(s) described in division
(A) are unable or unwilling to provide impoundment services or if, at the
discretion of the Board, circumstances justify the case-by-case placement.
Agreements under this division may include such terms as are reasonable under
the circumstances.
   (I)   Unless a veterinarian provides a written statement indicating that the
animal should not be microchipped due to health reasons, the Animal Control
Officer shall require that an animal impounded under division (B) be
microchipped. The microchipping may be done by the Animal Control Officer or
the animal shelter directly, with the owner required to pay the reasonable fee
of such microchipping. The Animal Control Officer may require an owner to
obtain the microchipping service and, at the Animal Control Officer's
discretion, may make the microchipping a condition of receiving a warning
instead of a citation under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.09 RECLAIMING AND REDEEMING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   This section applies when an impounded animal is permitted by the
Animal Control Officer to be reclaimed and redeemed.
   (B)   If the Animal Control Officer or other county employee was involved in
picking up or capturing the animal, the owner shall pay a redemption fee of
$25. This fee is in addition to the owner's liability for other costs which may
be associated with the impoundment.
   (C)    The animal shelter may, in addition, impose a sheltering fee for
animals impounded under this section not greater than the prevailing fees
charged by boarding kennels in the county for each day or part thereof the
animal is impounded. The shelter may also charge an impoundment fee to defray
costs of handling and record keeping.
   (D)   The shelter may, at its discretion, decline to release an animal until
the shelter receives sufficient proof or assurances that the animal has been or
will be inoculated as required by law.
   (E)   The shelter may, at its discretion, decline to release an animal until
the shelter receives sufficient proof or assurances that the animal has
received or will receive a microchip implant that contains ownership
information for the animal. Alternately, the shelter may provide the animal
with a microchip implant with ownership information on its own and charge the
owner a reasonable fee for the service. However, the shelter may not exercise
its discretion under this division if a veterinarian provides a written
statement indicating that the animal should not be microchipped due to health
reasons.
   (F)   An owner must redeem and reclaim or relinquish ownership of an animal
within three days of receiving notice of impoundment. If the owner fails to
redeem and reclaim the animal within three days of receiving notice of
impoundment, in addition to the penalties imposed under §
90.12, the owner is deemed to have relinquished ownership and the animal
shelter may dispose of the animal or place the animal with a new owner. If the
owner of the animal is unknown or if notification of the owner is not
reasonably practicable, the animal shelter may dispose of the animal or place
the animal with a new owner following not less than five days of impoundment.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.10 MANDATORY MICROCHIPPING AND STERILIZATION.
   (A)   Owners who commit a violation of §§
90.03 (Prohibited Acts),
90.04 (Inoculation),
90.05 (Restraint),
90.06 (Humane Treatment), or
90.07 (Habitual Offender), must, in addition to paying the fines imposed for
those violations, have the subject animal microchipped. The Animal Control
Officer may, at his discretion and subject to his ability to do so, offer to
provide the microchipping service for which he will charge a fee in the amount
of $25. This division does not apply to an animal that has already been
microchipped.
   (B)   Subject to division (D), owners who commit a violation of §§
90.03 (Prohibited Acts),
90.04 (Inoculation),
90.05 (Restraint),
90.06 (Humane Treatment), or
90.07 (Habitual Offender), must, in addition to paying the fines imposed for
those violations, have the subject animal sterilized or agree to do so. This
division does not apply to an animal that has already been sterilized.
   (C)   Subject to division (D), if an owner is required to have the owner's
animal sterilized under division (B), the owner shall sign an agreement to have
the animal sterilized within 30 days.
   (D)   Subject to the limitations in this division, an owner who is required
to have an animal sterilized under division (B) and enter into an agreement
under division (C) may, in the alternative, decline to enter into an agreement
and, instead, pay a fine of $250. This alternative fine is not available to the
following: habitual offenders under §
90.07, those who commit animal cruelty under §
90.06(B) and (C), those who have failed to abide by a prior agreement under
division (C), and those who fail to restrain a hazardous animal under §
90.05(C). Those owners who are not permitted to decline under this division
shall be deemed to have entered into an agreement under division (C) and are
subject to the penalties specified under division (E) if they fail to have
their animal sterilized.
   (E)   If the owner enters into an agreement under division (C) and fails to
comply with the agreement, the owner is subject to a fine of $2,500 and an
order of injunctive relief requiring specific performance of the agreement.
   (F)   If a veterinarian provides a written opinion that microchipping or
sterilizing an animal would be detrimental to the health of the animal, the
time for performing under an agreement under division (C) shall be delayed to
such time as is specified by the veterinarian. If no time is specified by the
veterinarian, the time for performance shall be delayed for six months.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall maintain a record of impounded
animals. The record shall show the date of impoundment, the reason for
impoundment, the individual delivering the animal to the shelter, and
identifying information about the animal including, to the extent known: kind,
gender, color, breed, and identifying collars, tags or marks. If known, the
record should also include identifying information about the owner.
   (B)   In addition to impoundment of an animal under §
90.08, if a person is in violation of this chapter, the Animal Control Officer
may issue a written warning or a notice of ordinance violation.
   (C)   If the Animal Control Officer issues a written warning, the warning
must state, if known to the officer, the name of the person being warned, the
nature of the violation, the date of the violation, and may include any other
information the Animal Control Officer deems pertinent. The Animal Control
Officer may make a warning conditional on an owner having the animal sterilized
and/or microchipped with a notice of ordinance violation to issue if the
sterilization and/or microchipping does not take place within such reasonable
time as the Animal Control Officer may specify. If the Animal Control Officer
issues a warning for violations under §§
90.03 (Prohibited Acts),
90.04 (Inoculation),
90.05 (Restraint),
90.06 (Humane Treatment), or
90.07 (Habitual Offender), he shall have discretion as to whether to require
microchipping or sterilization under the terms set forth in §
90.10.
   (D)   If the Animal Control Officer issues a notice of ordinance violation,
the notice must state the name of the person accused of a violation, the nature
of the violation, the date of the violation, the section of this chapter that
has been violated, the fine imposed for the violation, and any other
information pertinent to the violation and necessary for an understanding of
the circumstances surrounding the violation. The Animal Control Officer must
provide a copy of the notice of ordinance violation to the Clerk and to the
County Attorney. If the amount of the fine is less than $250, the notice shall
advise the person that the fine for the violation may be paid through the Clerk
of Tippecanoe County. The notice shall notify the person of the time and date
of a court hearing at which the person must appear if he or she wishes to
challenge the notice of violation or if the amount of the fine is over $250, in
which case, a court appearance is mandatory.
   (E)   If a person is aggrieved by the decision of the Animal Control Officer
under this chapter, the person may appeal the decision to a court of plenary
jurisdiction sitting in Tippecanoe County Indiana within 30 days of the
decision. This does not extend the times set forth in §
90.09 with respect to the disposition of an impounded animal.
   (F)   In addition to any other remedy available under this chapter, the
county or the Animal Control Officer may seek injunctive relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction to correct an ongoing violation under this chapter. Such
injunctive relief may include, without limitation, restriction or prohibition
of the violator's ability to possess or own animals in Tippecanoe County. The
Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer may take such immediate
action as is reasonably necessary to prevent the death or serious bodily injury
to an animal or the public.
   (G)   An owner shall be responsible for such reasonable fees and expenses as
are made necessary by the owner's failure to comply with this chapter
including, without limitation, impoundment and boarding fees, attorney's fees,
and damages and fees incurred in addressing a threat of death or serious bodily
injury.
   (H)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall maintain a Hazardous Animal
List. The presence of an animal on this list shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the animal is "hazardous" within the meaning of this chapter. An
animal may still be "hazardous" within the meaning of §
90.02 even if the animal is not present on the Hazardous Animal List. The
Animal Control Officer shall place an animal on the Hazardous Animal List if:
         (a)   The animal, without provocation, bites a child.
         (b)   The animal causes death or serious injury to a person or
domesticated animal.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the discretion to add other
animals to the list if the Animal Control Officer has reason to believe the
animal is one with a propensity to attack, bite, or injure humans or
domesticated animals without adequate provocation.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.12 ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the office of Auditor of Tippecanoe County
a separate fund to be known as the Animal Control Fund.
   (B)   All monies received from fines recovered under §
90.12(A), redemption fees under §
90.09, gifts and donations to the Animal Control Fund, shall be deposited into
such Fund.
   (C)   Monies may be expended from such Fund, subject to appropriation by the
County Council, only for the purpose of furthering the goals of humane
treatment and population control of animals in the county including, without
limitation, assisting with spaying, neutering, and microchipping the pet
population in the county.
   (D)   Interest on such Fund shall be deposited to the county general fund.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.13 FERAL CAT COLONIES.
   The Animal Control Officer shall administer a cat colony program to
encourage the spay and neutering of feral and abandoned cats.
(Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following fines apply to violations of this chapter:
Offense Fine
Offense                                                           Fine
Inoculation violation (§                                         $200
90.04)
Improper or absent restraint (§                                  $200
90.05(A))
Nuisance violation (§                                            $200
90.03(A)(11))
Failure to confine animal in heat (§                             $200
90.05(B))
Improper confinement of hazardous animal (§                      $200
90.05(C))
Failure to provide adequate food, potable water, and shelter (§  $200
90.06(A))
Animal cruelty (§                                                Up to $2,500
90.06(B), (C))
Abandonment of animal (§                                         $200
90.03(A)(10))
Failure to stop, assist, or report after injuring or killing
animal with motor vehicle (§                                     $200
90.06(D))
Exposing domestic animal to poison (§                            $200
90.06(E))
Failure to reclaim impounded animal (§                           $200
90.09(F))
Failing to microchip (§                                          $200
90.10(A))
Habitual offender                                                 Up to $2,500
Refusing to agree to sterilize (§                                $250
90.10(D))
Failure to comply with an agreement to sterilize (§              $2,500
90.10(E))
All other violations of this chapter not otherwise specified      $200
 
   (B)   In addition to the fines set forth herein, a violation of this chapter
that results in damages or injury to persons or property may be grounds for
compensatory damages for such damage or injury.
(Ord. 2014-24-CM, passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. 2019-30-CM, passed 12-2-19)
CHAPTER 91: RESERVED
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Application
   
92.03   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.04   Enforcement
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply throughout this chapter.
   (A)   The definitions in I.C. 22-9.5-2 shall have the meanings set forth
therein.
      DISCRIMINATORY ACT COMMITTED BECAUSE OF FAMILIAL STATUS. Has the meaning
set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-1-2.
      DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Those practices that are unlawful under
I.C. 22-9.5-5 and §
92.03 herein.
      FAMILY. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-2-9,24 CFR 5.403 and 24
CFR 574.3, The term includes, but is not limited to, the following, regardless
of actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status:
         (a)   A single person, who may be an elderly person, displaced person,
disabled person, near-elderly person, or any other single person; or
         (b)   A group of persons residing together, and such group includes,
but is not limited to:
            1.   A family with or without children (a child who is temporarily
away from the
home because of placement in foster care is considered a member of the family);
            2.   An elderly family;
            3.   A near-elderly family;
            4.   A disabled family;
            5.   A displaced family; and
            6.   The remaining member of a tenant family.
      HANDICAP. Has the meaning set forth in 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
(Ord. 2018-17-CM, passed 9-4-18)
§ 92.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter applies throughout Tippecanoe County except that this
chapter does not apply to the City of Lafayette, the City of West Lafayette, or
other incorporated parts of the County that have adopted ordinances with
respect to fair housing.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-3-2, this chapter does not prohibit a
religious organization, an association, or a society or a nonprofit institution
or an organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction
with a religious organization, an association, or a society from:
      (1)   Limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings that it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion; or
      (2)   Giving preference to persons of the same religion, unless
membership in the religion is restricted because of race, color, or national
origin.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-3-3, this chapter does not prohibit a private
club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary
purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than
a commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 2018-17-CM, passed 9-4-18)
§ 92.03 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   The exemptions described under I.C. 22-9.5-3-1 and I.C. 22-9.5-3-4 to
the application of I.C. 22-9.5-5 shall serve as exemptions to the application
of this section.
   (B)   Those acts set forth as prohibited under I.C. 22-9.5-5 are prohibited
under this chapter including without limitation:
      (1)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-1: Discrimination in connection with sale or rental;
      (2)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-2: Publication of notice indicating intent to
discriminate;
      (3)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-3: Discriminatory misrepresentation as to
availability;
      (4)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-4: Discriminatory inducement concerning sale or
rental;
      (5)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-5: Discrimination based on disability;
      (6)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-6: Discrimination in residential real estate related
transaction;
      (7)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-7: Discrimination related to the business of selling
or renting dwellings;
      (8)   I.C. 22-9.5-5-8: Intimidation or interference with exercise of
another’s rights.
(Ord. 2018-17-CM, passed 9-4-18)
§ 92.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Board of Commissioners hereby elects to refer
all formal complaints of violation under this Chapter to the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission for administrative enforcement actions under I.C. 22-9.5-
6 including, without limitation, investigation, resolution, and award of
appropriate relief with respect to such complaints.
   (B)   Departments and agencies of Tippecanoe County shall administer their
departments, programs, and activities with respect to housing and urban
development in a manner consistent with this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Board of Commissioners and the Indiana Civil Rights Commission with respect
to enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners or its designee shall provide information
concerning available remedies under this chapter to an aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2018-17-CM, passed 9-4-18)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
Regulations
   
93.15   Hours of operation for county parks and fairground
   
93.16   Speed regulations; exceptions
   
93.17   Traffic and parking regulations
   
93.18   Schedule of fees and charges
Park and Recreation Board
   
93.25   Purpose
   
93.26   Representation
   
93.27   Terms of members
   
93.28   Officers
   
93.29   Powers
   
93.30   Budget
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation non-reverting operating fund, see § 33.53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specify the hours of operation for the
Tippecanoe County Parks and Fairground and to regulate traffic and parking
therein.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAIRGROUNDS. The Tippecanoe County Fairgrounds.
   PARK. Any property owned or operated by the Tippecanoe County Park and
Recreation Board.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or roadway within property owned or
operated by the Tippecanoe County Park and Recreation Board or the Tippecanoe
County Fairgrounds.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
   REGULATIONS
§ 93.15 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR COUNTY PARKS AND FAIRGROUND.
   The Tippecanoe County parks and fairgrounds are open from the hours of one-
half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset daily and are closed
from the hours of one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise, unless
extended by action of the Board of Commissioners or the Park and Recreation
Board. No person may enter or remain upon the parks or fairgrounds during the
hours when they are closed, without the prior written permission of the agency
in charge of the property and/or its representative.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.16 SPEED REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon a roadway within the park or
fairgrounds at a speed that is greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
   (B)   The limits specified in this section shall be the maximum lawful
speeds on the roadways within the county parks and the county fairgrounds and
no person shall drive a vehicle on a roadway within property owned or operated
by the County Park and Recreation Board or the county fairgrounds at a speed in
excess of such maximum limits: 15 miles per hour.
   (C)   An exception to the above applies when a special hazard exists that
requires a lower speed for compliance with division (A) above of this section
and such lower speed is posted.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
§ 93.17 TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All motorized vehicles, bicycles and other traffic on any roadway
within the fairgrounds or the parks shall observe all designated traffic signs
at all times.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked at any time on any property of the
fairgrounds or the parks except in the area designated for such parking.
   (C)   No motorized vehicle, bicycles, or other vehicles shall be operated in
or parked in the fairgrounds or the parks outside of the hours in which they
are open except with the prior written approval of the agency in charge of the
property or their representative or when attending an event conducted upon the
property with the prior written approval of the agency in charge of the
property and/or their representative.
   (D)   No motorized vehicle, bicycles or other vehicles shall be operated or
parked in any manner except as stated above in divisions (A) through (C)
without the prior written approval of the agency in charge of the property on
which such vehicle is being operated or parked.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.18 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   There is hereby established the following uniform schedule of charges and
fees which shall be charged and collected for use of facilities and grounds at
the Tippecanoe County Fairgrounds:
BUILDING OR SPACE DIMENSIONS DEPOSIT DAILY RENT (Free DAILY RENT (Fee
                                     events)          generating events)
BUILDING OR SPACE DIMENSIONS        DEPOSIT DAILY RENT (Free DAILY RENT (Fee
                                            events)          generating events)
Home Economics    190' x 50'=9,500' $450    $450             $600
Kitchen/Dining
Room (in Home                       $150    $150/day or $20/
Economics                                   hour
Building)
Exhibit Hall      40' x 120'=4,800' $300    $300             $400
                  115' x
Coliseum          120'=13,800'      $250    $250             $400
                  Show ring =60' x
                  90'
Swine Barn/West   100' x            $650    $650             $800
Pavilion          230'=23,000'
Sheep Barn/       75' x             $300    $300
Parking           150'=11,250'
Dairy Barn        75' x             $300    $300
                  150'=11,250'
New Horse Barn    60' x 120'=7,200' $300    $300
Old Horse Barn    66' x 105'=6,930' $200    $200
Teal Road Parking
(between front                      $150    $150
gates)
Grassy Circle     One acre          $350    $350
Open space along
Teal Road/Wooded                    $500    $500
Area
Horse Show Arena                    $300    $300
Pull Strip        60' x             $400    $400
                  250'=15,000'
Beef Barn                           $300    $300             $400
 
(Ord. 2013-47-CM, passed 12-16-13)
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 93.25 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter re-establishes the Tippecanoe County Park and Recreation
Board as authorized by I.C. 36-10-3.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.26 REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Park and Recreation Board shall be re-
established in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3, and the Board shall be composed
of:
      (1)   Two members appointed by the judge of the circuit court.
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners.
      (3)   Two members appointed by the County Council.
      (4)   The County Extension Committee shall select one of its members, the
County Extension Director, or a County Extension Educator, to serve as an ex
officio Board member.
      (5)   The Mayor of Lafayette, Indiana, shall appoint one person as an ex
officio Board member. The member appointed by the Mayor must be affiliated with
a different party than the member appointed by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   Members appointed under divisions (A)(1), (2) and (3) above shall be
appointed on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and
recreation but no more than one member appointed under divisions (1) and (3)
shall be affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   Ex officio Board members shall have all the rights of regular members,
including the right to vote.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.27 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of its members shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The appointments by the circuit court judge shall be one- and
three-year terms, respectively.
      (2)   The appointment by the County Commissioners shall be for a two-year
term.
      (3)   The appointments by the Council shall be for two- and four-year
terms, respectively.
      (4)   The appointment by the Mayor shall be coterminous with the Mayor’s
term of office.
   (B)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year term.
All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Department. If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.28 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a president
and a vice-president. The vice-president shall have authority to act as the
president of the Board during the absence or disability of the president. The
Board may select a secretary either from within or without its own membership.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.29 POWERS.
   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to acquire and
develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are generally
understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the Board shall
have all the powers and duties listed in and shall be subject to all provisions
of I.C. 36-10-3.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.30 BUDGET.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of government as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and recreation
purposes.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 12-14-82)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for the violation of this chapter shall be a fine of not more
than $2,500.
(Ord. 2000-51-CM, passed 7-6-00)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Vector Control
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   Authority
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Enforcement
   
94.06   Abatement
   
94.07   Violations
   
94.08   Injunction; remedies
   
94.09   Procedure for hearing
Health Data Collection and Reporting
   
94.10   Health data collection and reporting
Alarm System Regulations
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Monitoring fee
   
94.17   Registration of alarm business
   
94.18   Identification cards required
   
94.19   Prohibited acts
   
94.20   Notice of violation
   
94.21   Hearing
 
   
94.99   Penalty
VECTOR CONTROL
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the Vector Control Ordinance of Tippecanoe County, and may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for a vector control program
which shall be under the direction of the Health Officer of Tippecanoe County.
This subchapter shall supersede all ordinances previously established for
vector control.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, as hereinafter defined, and the Health Officer’s agents
and representatives are hereby authorized to perform inspections order and
otherwise compel correction of violations of this subchapter and are otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the definitions of the
current Vector Control Ordinance requirements of the Indiana State Department
of Health and their interpretations shall apply to the enforcement of this
subchapter and the provisions of I.C. 16-41-33-1 et seq. and any amendments
thereto, are incorporated herein. In addition to or to otherwise supplement
those definitions contained in the above referenced code sections this
subchapter shall include the following additional definitions:
   BOARD OF HEALTH. Means or includes the Tippecanoe County Health Department.
   DEPARTMENT or HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The Tippecanoe County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Tippecanoe County, Indiana or his
authorized representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporate, association. Joint-stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, city, school, town, school district, school corporation, county,
any consolidated unit of government, political subdivision, or any legal
entity.
   PEST. Any arthropod, vertebrate, or microorganism of health significance to
humans.
   VECTOR. Any arthropod or feral animal responsible for the transmission of
pathogens from a host to another animal or human.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Health Officer and his or her authorized representative shall have those
powers and that authority indicated in I.C. 16-41-33-6, and any amendments
thereof, for vector abatement and pest control. It shall be the duty of the
Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. A violation of an
abatement order, issued by the Health Officer pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 16-20-1-25, or a similar statute, shall be considered a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.06 ABATEMENT.
   The Health Officer is authorized as part of his or her duties to issue an
order in writing to any person and requiring said person to take all necessary,
proper, and reasonable steps to control or abate vectors or pests and breeding
places thereof which have adverse health significance to humans or domestic
animals. The order may specify the actions that shall be taken for such control
or abatement and the time available for accomplishing the control or abatement.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94; Am. Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.07  VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any person or entity subject to
the provisions of this subchapter is in willful or continuing violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter, in addition to any other remedy or
penalty imposed by this subchapter, the Health Officer may furnish evidence of
the willful or continuing violation to the Prosecuting Attorney of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana or the attorney for the Department who shall seek all
appropriate legal remedies against the entity or person(s) violating the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.08  INJUNCTION; REMEDIES.
   The Health Officer may bring actions in the Tippecanoe Circuit Court or
Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief for the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Health Officer or to otherwise provide for the enforcement of this subchapter.
Any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action
to recover the penalties, costs and expenses provided in this subchapter. In
the event any legal action is necessary to enforce this subchapter, the Health
Officer may seek and recover costs and expenses reasonably incurred to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney’s fees and other costs. The remedies provided in this subchapter shall
be cumulative, and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy
provided by law.
(Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
§ 94.09 PROCEDURE FOR HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section, shall be open
to the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the party to the proceedings to appear and
participate in the hearing.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this subchapter, the Hearing Officer
shall be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who
is a party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to
cross-examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel as arranged by
the party to the proceedings. All such hearings shall be conducted in an
informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitive evidence may
be excluded.
   (C)   Within a reasonable time after such hearing, the Health Officer or the
Health Officer’s designee shall enter a final order, subject to the right of
appeal to a court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter
of the appeal.
   (D)   To exercise the right of appeal, a party to the final order must file
a petition for relief from the order with the Circuit or a Superior Court of
Tippecanoe County no later than as required by law or 60 days from the date of
the health officer’s final order, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
HEALTH DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING
§ 94.10 HEALTH DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.
   (A)   As used in this section, HEALTH DATA means data related to symptoms
and health syndromes from outbreaks or suspected outbreaks of diseases or other
health conditions that may be a danger to public health.
   (B)   A health care provider or other entity in Tippecanoe County that
collects health data as defined in division (A) of this section shall report
the data to the Health Officer in the manner established by the Health Officer.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to require health care providers
or other entities to collect new health data. Rather, this section is intended
to facilitate direct reporting to the Tippecanoe County Health Officer of
health data the provider or entities is reporting or will report to the Indiana
State Department of Health.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall adopt rules consistent with this section and
make them available to county health care providers, entities that collect
health data as defined in division (A) of this section, and such other entities
as the Health Officer may deem necessary.
(Ord. 2015-12-CM, passed 5-18-15)
ALARM SYSTEM REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is employed by an alarm business either directly
or indirectly, whose duties include selling, maintaining, leasing servicing,
repairing, altering, moving, or installing on or in any building, structure, or
facility, any alarm system.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity who
sells, leases, maintains, services, repairs, alters, replaces, moves or
installs any alarm system or causes to be sold, leased, maintained, serviced,
repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed any alarm system in or on any
building, structure or facility.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any device used for the detection of an unauthorized entry or
attempted entry into a building, structure or facility; or for alerting others
of the commission of an unlawful act within a building structure, facility or
grounds, which when activated causes notification to be made directly or
indirectly to the Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, an alarm system shall not
include:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
         (b)   An alarm designed and operated so that no notification is given
to the Sheriff’s Department until after the occupants, an agent of the owner or
lessee, or an agent of an alarm system business have checked the alarm site and
determined that the alarm was the possible or probable result of criminal
activity of the kind for which the alarm system was designed to give notice.
The alarm shall be equipped to disconnect any exterior sounding alarm
automatically within ten minutes of activation;
         (c)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
the State of Indiana, or any political subdivision thereof.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting a sheriff’s response when the situation does
not warrant such a response. For the purposes of this subchapter, this does not
include alarms triggered by severe atmospheric conditions or other
circumstances not reasonable under the control of the alarm user, installer or
maintainer.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.16 MONITORING FEE.
   Every person maintaining an alarm system, monitored by the county, as
defined in
§ 94.15, shall pay an annual monitoring fee of $300 to the Tippecanoe County
Sheriff for each alarm site monitored, payable on June 1 of each year, for the
following 12-month period. This fee shall be waived for any alarm removed from
the system within 12 months from the effective date of this subchapter. The
annual fee for an alarm installed after June 1 of any year shall be prorated
for each month or portion of a month that such an alarm is installed. The fee
paid to the Sheriff shall be deposited with the County Auditor for deposit into
the County Police Department Capital Outlay Account.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.17 REGISTRATION OF ALARM BUSINESS.
   (A)   Prior to doing business within the county, an alarm system business
shall register with the Sheriff’s office on a form designated by the county for
that purpose. On such form the business shall set forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the alarm system business;
      (2)   The full name, business address and home address of the manager;
      (3)   A telephone number at which the Sheriff’s Department can notify
personnel of the business of a need for assistance at any time;
      (4)   The name, address and date of birth of all alarm agents employed by
the alarm system business.
   (B)   An alarm system business doing business at the time this subchapter
becomes effective shall have 30 days to register as required above, with a fee
of $100.
   (C)   An alarm system business shall promptly notify the Sheriff in writing
of any change in the information contained in the registration form.
   (D)   The fee paid to the Sheriff shall be deposited in the Sheriff False
Alarm Fund in the Office of the Tippecanoe County Auditor.
   (E)   Money in the False Alarm Fund may be used to support the Sheriff’s
responsibilities with respect to alarm business registration, alarm monitoring,
and responding to alarms. Thereafter, remaining funds may be used in support of
operational and capital expenses of the Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 2021-
33-CM, passed 11-15-21)
§ 94.18 IDENTIFICATION CARDS REQUIRED.
   Every alarm agent shall carry on his person at all times while engaged in
the alarm system business an identification card which shall be displayed to
any police officer or Fire Department officer upon request.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.19 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be a prohibited act punishable by fine as provided in this
subchapter to do any of the following acts:
      (1)   For a person who owns or controls property on which an alarm system
is installed to issue, cause to be issued or permit the issuance of a false
alarm.
      (2)   For a person who owns or controls property to install, maintain or
permit to operate any alarm which automatically dials into any Sheriff’s
Department public or emergency telephone line when an alarm is activated.
      (3)   For a person participating in the ownership or management of an
alarm system business to do any business within the county without registering
as required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Each separate occurrence, under division (A)(1), and each separate
day, under divisions (A)(2)
and (3) shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.20 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Sheriff or designee may issue a notice of violation. Upon the
issuance of the first three violations per calendar year of
§ 94.19(A)(1) only for any specific property, any fine will be excused upon the
violator submitting a written report to the Sheriff’s Department on the cause
of the alarm within two weeks of service of notice of violation. Such report
must show that steps have been taken to correct the problem and that the
problem will not occur again in the future.
   (B)   The notice of violation shall state the name of the violator, the
location of the violation, the date and time of the violation, the section of
this subchapter which was violated, the penalties for the violation and the
violator’s right to an appeal under any section hereof, if applicable.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall be served upon the violator at the
violator’s last known address. Service shall be complete upon the mailing
(regardless of the receipt of the notice) or posting of the notice upon the
property where the alarm is located.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.21 HEARING.
   Any person noticed for a violation of
§ 94.19(A)(1) may petition the Board of County Commissioners for a hearing to
show that for some reason beyond the violator’s control, the false alarm was
activated. The petition for a hearing must state specifically the reasons
beyond the violator’s control for the activation of the alarm. The violator
must also furnish the Board with the names and addresses of any and all
witnesses as to the foregoing reasons. The petition must be filed within two
weeks of service of the notice of violation. After the hearing, the Board of
County Commissioners in its sole discretion, will determine whether the false
alarm was activated for reasons beyond the control of the violator, the
violation will be excused and no fine will be imposed.
(Ord. 88-44-CM, passed - -88; Am. Ord. 89-23-CM, passed 5-16-89)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision
of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall be served by the Health Officer with a written order stating the
nature of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
§§
94.01 through
94.06 shall be subject to penalty as hereinafter prescribed in this section. On
being found to have violated the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.06, the violator shall be punished by a fine or not more than $2,500. Each
day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any violation or
completing other actions as ordered by the County Health Department, or by the
duly appointed Health Officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall become liable to the county for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by reason of such violation, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 94-17-CM, passed 6-20-94)
   (B)   The fine imposed for violation of any provision of §§
94.15 through
94.21 will be not more than $2,500 for each violation.
   (C)   The Department has determined that one of the most efficient methods
of encouraging compliance with ordinances to protect the public health is to
assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to suppress
disease and minimize health risks. For purposes of tracking violations and
imposing fines under §§
94.01 through
94.09 the Department shall maintain inspection records for not less than one
year from the date of any inspection conducted consistent with §§
94.01 through
94.09. No fine is payable the first time a violation is noted within any one-
year period. For a second or subsequent violation of §§
94.01 through
94.09 within any one-year period, a civil penalty is payable as provided in §§
94.01 through
94.09.
      (1)   The following civil penalties (fines) shall apply for a violation
of §§
94.01 through
94.09 which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one-year
period:
         (a)   The second time the same violation is determined within any one-
year period, there will be a fine of $50.
         (b)   The third (and subsequent) time the same violation is determined
within any one-year period, there will be a fine of $100.
      (2)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of §§
94.01 through
94.09 or completing other actions as ordered by the Tippecanoe County Health
Department or the Health Officer, shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense; provided that, the total of all fines imposed for a continuing
violation of §§
94.01 through
94.09 shall not exceed the total sum of $10,000.
      (3)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Health Officer. Failure to pay fines by the due
date will result in an additional 10% late fee. Any fines and late fees may be
collected in any manner provided herein or as provided by law including any law
for collection of debts, along with attorney fees incurred to collect said
amounts owing and with all costs of collection.
      (4)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by §§
94.01 through
94.09 is subject to the right of appeal and a public hearing which will be
scheduled, conducted, and concluded as provided in §§
94.01 through
94.09. Any request for an appeal shall be filed in writing with the Health
Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil penalty.
(Am. ord. 2019-11-CM, passed 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Authority; private home exclusion
   
95.04   Adoption by reference
   
95.05   Definitions
Operating Regulations
   
95.20   Permits
   
95.21   Certified pool operator
   
95.22   Inspections
   
95.23   Minimum requirements
   
95.24   Unsafe pool; emergency closure
   
95.25   Permit revocation
   
95.26   Procedure for hearing
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.40   Enforcement
   
95.41   Violations
   
95.42   Injunction
   
95.43   Expense
   
95.44   Cumulative
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Public and Semi-Public Swimming Pool and Spa Ordinance of
Tippecanoe County, Indiana, and may be cited as such and will be referred to
herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure that
all public and semi-public pools and spas meet minimum safety standards. This
chapter and the regulations incorporated into this chapter establishes
definitions, sets standards for management and personnel, pool operations, and
equipment and facilities and provides for public and semi-public pool and spa
permits, inspections, fines, and employee restrictions.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.03 AUTHORITY; PRIVATE HOME EXCLUSION.
   The Tippecanoe County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue public
and semi-public pool and spa permits, collect permit fees and fines, perform
inspections, order or compel correction of violations of this chapter, and is
otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration
and enforcement of this chapter and protection of publip health incidental to
operation of public and semi-public pools and spas. This chapter shall apply
throughout Tippecanoe County, including the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to
any pool or spa constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling and maintained by
an individual for the sole use of the household and house guests.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.04 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Title 410 IAC 6-2.1, Public and Semi-Public Pools and Title 675 IAC 20-1.1
Indiana Swimming Pool Code are incorporated by reference in this chapter, as
those regulations may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.05 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to any definitions stated in regulations incorporated within
this chapter, the following definitions apply through this chapter. In the
event of a conflict, the definitions in this chapter shall govern.
   ACCREDITING ORGANIZATION. An independent organization, such as the National
Swimming Pool Foundation, that is qualified to train, certify, and recertify a
pool operator.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Tippecanoe County Board of Health.
   CERTIFICATION DOCUMENT. A certificate, letter, or other document which
includes the expiration date that verifies the individual has passed an
accredited examination given by an accredited testing-service.
   CPO. A certified pool operator that is recognized by an accredited
organization, such as the National Swimming Pool Foundation, or has been
recognized by the Tippecanoe County Health Department, as possessing knowledge
and skill sufficient to be regarded as the equivalent of a certified pool
operator.
   DEPARTMENT. The Indiana State Department of Health or its authorized
representative.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Tippecanoe County or its
authorized representative.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the Tippecanoe County Health
Department, and his or her authorized representatives.
   HEARING OFFICER. The person presiding over any meeting, hearing, or simitar
proceeding to consider or enforce this chapter. The HEARING OFFICER shall
normally be the Health Officer, or the Health Officer’s designee.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that
includes, but is not limited to, the reasons for closure set forth in other
parts of this chapter. An IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD is considered to exist when
there is evidence sufficient to show that a condition, product, practice,
circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate correction
or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the:
      (1)   Number of potential injuries or illnesses; and
      (2)   Nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated injury or
illness.
   INSPECTION. A visit by a regulatory authority to determine compliance with
this chapter and any other pool and spa rules.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Tippecanoe County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person or corporation that has primary oversight
responsibility for operation of the pool or spa through ownership, or lease or
contractual agreement. The term includes a permittee.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Tippecanoe County Health Department that
authorizes a person or corporation to operate a public or semi-public pool.
   PERMITTEE. The person, association, corporation, individual, partnership, or
other legal entity or establishment that owns or leases the premises upon which
the pool or spa is located and whose name appears on the permit.
   POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing an artificial body
of water for swimming, bathing, competition, relaxation, therapy, or
recreational use. The term POOL as used in this chapter also includes pool and
spa variations that recirculate water such as baby pools, lazy rivers, plunge
pools, wading pools, splash pads, and other aquatic venues.
   PUBLIC POOL. Any pool, other than those pools defined as a semi-public pool,
which is intended to be used for swimming or bathing and is operated by a
concessionaire, owner, lessee, operator, or licensee, regardless of whether a
fee is charged for use. However, this definition does not include any pool,
constructed at a one- or two-family dwelling, and maintained by an individual
for the sole use of the household and house guests.
   RE-CERTIFICATION. Requiring a pre-certified individual to pass an accredited
certification examination within five years from the date of issue of their
most recent certificate issue date or complying with the accredited testing
service’s written policy for re-certification.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The local, state, or federal enforcement body or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over public or semi-public pools
and spas.
   REPEAT VIOLATION. A violation that has been observed and recorded on a
previous inspection form and the violation was also observed and recorded again
on a subsequent inspection report.
   SEASONAL POOL OR SPA. A pool or spa that will be open for no more than a
continuous six-month period in any year.
   SEMI-PUBLIC POOL. Any pool that is intended to be used for swimming or
bathing and is operated solely for and in conjunction with:
      (1)   Schools, universities, and colleges;
      (2)   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfasts, or
similar lodgings;
      (3)   Camps or mobile home parks; or
      (4)   Memberships clubs or associations;
      (5)   Therapeutic pools such as those at rehabilitation and health care
facilities.
   SPA. A pool designed for recreational and/or therapeutic use, commonly known
as a hot tub or therapy pool, which is not drained, cleaned, and refilled after
each use, The term may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Hydrojet circulation;
      (2)   Hot water;
      (3)   Cold water;
      (4)   Mineral baths;
      (5)   Air induction systems; or
      (6)   Any combination thereof.
   THERAPEUTIC POOL. Any pool used for rehabilitation of patients or clients at
a health care facility. This chapter does not apply to any THERAPEUTIC POOL
which is drained and sanitized between uses.
   UNSATISFACTORY WATER SAMPLE. A water sample that contains more than 200
bacteria colonies per milliliter as determined by the heterotrophic 35 degree
Centigrade plate count, a test  positive (confirmed test) for coliform
organisms in any of the five to ten milliliter portions of a sample when the
multiple tube fermentation tube test is used, a test positive for more than one
coliform organism per 50 milliliters when the membrane filter test is used, or
the presence, in the water sample, of other recognized bacteria or harmful
chemicals or substances known to result in an imminent health hazard to users
of the pool or spa.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 95.20 PERMITS.
   (A)   For pools and spas regulated by this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person or entity to operate a public or semi-public pool or spa in
Tippecanoe County, Indiana, that does not possess a permit issued by the
Tippecanoe County Health Department or its designee. The Tippecanoe County
Health Department shall provide the appropriate application forms for permits.
The permit shall provide the name and address and contact information of the
permittee of the pool and spa, any operator, and such other information as
necessary to facilitate the purposes of this chapter. A pool or spa permit
shall be issued for a term of one year. The permit(s) shall be posted in the
establishment in a place conspicuous to the public.
   (B)   Each pool or spa within a permittee’s establishment will require a
separate permit. Therefore, if an establishment has a pool and a spa they will
be required to obtain two permits. This ensures that the Tippecanoe County
Health Department can suspend a permit when necessary and an unaffected pool or
spa may remain open, according to this chapter and the Indiana State Department
of Health’s Swimming Pool Rule, 410 IAC 6-2.1.
   (C)   Establishments applying for an annual or seasonal permit must provide
proof of a satisfactory water sample obtained from the pool or spa prior to
issuance or re-issuance of a permit. This criterion allows the Tippecanoe
County Health Department to ensure the annual pool can remain open and the
seasonal pool or spa has met all the mandatory bacteriological requirements
before it is allowed to open.
   (D)   Permit fees. Permit fees are required to be paid to the Tippecanoe
County Health Department prior to issuance of any pool or spa permit. Fees are
established in the Tippecanoe County Health Department Fee Ordinance as that
ordinance exists at the time of application for a pool or spa permit.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. All fees, fines, and penalties associated with a
pool or spa must be paid before a permit may be issued, renewed, or reinstated,
even if the pool or spa was operated by a prior permittee or different entity.
   (F)   Plan review. Any newly constructed, rehabilitated or altered public
pools or spas must show proof of plan approval from the Indiana Fire and
Building Services Department and any other applicable regulatory authority and
provide such plans to the health department for further plan review and
approval by the health department. A separate fee of $150 for each
establishment, which fee will include a combination of pools or spas, shall be
charged for such plan review. After submitting pool or spa plans for review, if
a permit application associated with those plans is denied, any corrective
action necessary for a pool or spa permit must be completed within 90 days or a
new plan review fee is payable.
   (G)   Application denial.
      (1)   If an application for a permit to operate a swimming pool or spa is
denied, the Tippecanoe County Health Department shall provide the applicant
with a notice that includes:
         (a)   The specific reasons and any applicable rule citations for the
permit denial;
         (b)   The actions, if any, that the applicant might take to qualify
for a permit; and
         (c)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal such denial
through the process indicated in this chapter for permit revocation and an
indication of estimated time frames for an appeal.
      (2)   After denial of a permit, any corrective action necessary for a
pool or spa permit must be completed within 90 days or a new permit application
and fee is payable.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.21 CERTIFIED POOL OPERATOR.
   All pool and spa permittees shall have at least one employee, or retain the
services of a professional, who is a certified pool or spa operator (CPO). The
CPO shall demonstrate knowledge of pool or spa operations and show proficiency
of required information through passing a test that is part of a certified pool
or spa operation training program. The CPO shall provide a certification
document in a form sufficient to verify authenticity of the certification. The
Tippecanoe Health Department shall consider other forms of documentation
establishing an operator’s qualifications to act as a CPO but the Tippecanoe
Health Department shall not be required to accept.such documentation as
equivalent to a certification document. Further requirements for a CPO include:
   (A)   Each operator shall physically visit and inspect each pool or spa not
less frequently than once per week and be available to service the pool or spa
whenever it is open for use by the public;
   (B)   The operator shall assume responsibility for compliance with this
rule;
   (C)   Proof of certification shall be made available to the health officer
upon request;
   (D)   The certification must be renewed whenever required by the relevant
certifying authority, but such certification shall not be recognized to exceed
a period of five years.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.22 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Department may inspect each public or semi-public pool or spa for
which a permit is required at any time during the pool or spa’s normal
operational hours or as may be scheduled with the operator of the pool or spa.
If, during an inspection of any pool or spa, the Health Department discovers a
violation of any of the requirements of this chapter, the Health Department’s
representative shall issue a written narrative report listing such violations
and a time for correction to the operator. A copy of the written report shall
be filed with the records of the Health Department.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.23 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All public and semi-public pools and spas shall comply at least with the
minimum requirements specified by 675 IAC 20-1.1, Swimming Pool Code, and 410
IAC 6-2.1, Public and Semi-Public Pools, and this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.24 UNSAFE POOL; EMERGENCY CLOSURE.
   (A)   If, during an inspection of any pool or spa, the health department
discovers a violation of any of the requirements of Indiana law including this
chapter, the health department’s representative may order the pool or spa
immediately closed if continued operation of the pool or spa is deemed to
present an imminent health hazard. Circumstances that may result in an
immediate pool or spa closure include the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to meet bacteriological requirements of 410 IAC 6-2.1, § 31
(f) Public and Semi-Public Pools;
      (2)   Failure to meet the disinfectant concentrations of 410 IAC 6-2.1, §
30(b) Public and Semi-Public Pools;
      (3)   Failure to meet water clarity requirements according to of 410 IAC
6-2.1, § 31(a) Public and Semi-Public Pools;
      (4)   A missing or broken grate for the pool or spa main drain;
      (5)   Failure to meet lifeguard requirements according to 410 IAC 6-2.1,
§ 35 Public and Semi-Public Pools, if applicable;
      (6)   Nonoperational pump, filter, and/or disinfectant feeders;
      (7)   A nonsolid fecal accident;
      (8)   Spa water temperature exceeding one 104 degrees Fahrenheit;
      (9)   Failure to maintain a pH between seven and seven and eight-tenths;
      (10)   Detecting any measurable concentration of chlorinated
isocyanurates and cyanuric acid stabilizers used in an indoor pool;
      (11)   Interference with the Health Officer’s performance of their
duties, including denial of access to the pool or spa premises;
      (12)   Failure to possess a valid permit;
      (13)   Any other condition that poses a serious and immediate risk of
illness or injury.
   (B)   Any closure order will be in writing. The order shall identify the
pool permittee, describe the specific grounds upon which closure is based,
direct the immediate closure of the pool or spa and vacating of the premises by
users of the pool or spa, list the corrective actions necessary to re-open the
pool or spa, and state that a hearing on the emergency closure may be requested
by permittee as the holder of the permit. The order shall be served in person
on the pool or spa permittee, or some other person in charge or in control of
the pool or spa.
   (C)   Resuming operation. If a permittee has discontinued operations for any
of the reasons stated above or otherwise according to law, the permittee must
obtain approval from the Tippecanoe County Health Department before resuming
operations, The Tippecanoe County Health Department may rescind any emergency
closure at any time with or without a hearing if it is determined that the
reason for the closure no longer exists.
   (D)   A pool operator shall immediately discontinue operations and notify
the Tippecanoe County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist
because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of
electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous toxic
materials, gross unsanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that
present an imminent health hazard.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.25 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Health Officer, after providing an opportunity
for a hearing, may revoke a pool or spa permit for serious or repeat violation
(s) of any of the requirements of any Indiana statutes and regulations or this
chapter; or, interference with the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s agent
(s) in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Prior to such action, the Health Officer shall provide written notice
to the pool or spa operator, The notice shall state the reasons for permit
revocation and advise the operator the permit shall be revoked after no less
than ten days following service of such notice, unless the permit holder files
with the Health Department of Tippecanoe County, Indiana a written request for
a hearing. Any hearing request must be filed prior to the date upon which the
permit revocation is to become effective. Consistent with the provisions for
emergency closure stated in this chapter, use of a pool or spa may be
prohibited through the closure process while permit revocation proceedings are
pending.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee by leaving or
mailing by certified mail the notice to the address listed on the permit
application as the permittee’s mailing address or such other address as the
permittee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer.
   (D)   If no request for a hearing is filed prior to the date the permit
revocation is to become effective, revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.26 PROCEDURE FOR HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section, shall be open
to the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the operator to appear and participate in
the hearing.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel as arranged by the
pool or spa permittee or operator. All such hearings shall be conducted in an
informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitive evidence may
be excluded.
   (C)   Within a reasonable time after such hearing, the Health Officer or the
Health Officer’s designee shall enter a final order, subject to the right of
appeal to a Court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter
of the appeal.
   (D)   To exercise the right of appeal, a party to the final order must file
a petition for relief from the order with the Circuit or a Superior Court of
Tippecanoe County no later than as required by law or 60 days from the date of
the health officer’s final order, whichever is less.
   (E)   If a pool or spa permit is revoked, subject to any court order, no
pool or spa permit will be issued, with respect to the pool or spa that was the
subject of the permit, until after one year from the date of the permit
revocation in the case of annual pools and for one month in the case of
seasonal pools (a mandatory continuing closure period); provided that, if the
pool or spa permittee or operator can show through plan review a significant
change of circumstances incidental to the maintenance, repair, or replacement
of the pool or spa facilities or equipment or other relevant circumstances
associated with the operation of the pool or spa (hat the reasons for a permit
revocation would be unlikely to re-occur, the Health Officer, in their
discretion, may waive mandatory continuing closure of the pool or spa and may
issue a new permit.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void. A violation of an abatement order issued by the Health
Officer pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 16-20-1-25, or a similar statute,
slrall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.41 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any person or entity subject to
the provisions of this chapter is in willful or continuing violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty
imposed by this chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said
willful or continuing violation to the Prosecuting Attorney of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana or the attorney for the Department who shall seek all
appropriate legal remedies against the entity or person(s) violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.42 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
any Superior Court of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, to restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation(s) to be
prevented, abated or removed, or to otherwise enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.43 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the Tippecanoe County Health Department for the expense, loss or damage
occasioned by reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s fees
and costs.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.44 CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   The Department has determined that one of the most efficient methods of
encouraging compliance with ordinances to protect the public health is to
assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to suppress
disease and minimize health risks. For purposes of tracking violations and
imposing fines under this chapter the Department shall maintain inspection
records for not less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted
consistent with this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a violation is
noted within any one-year period. For a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter within any one-year period, a civil penalty is payable as provided in
this chapter.
   (A)   The following civil penalties (fines) shall apply for a violation of
this chapter which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one-year
period:
      (1)   The second time the same violation is determined within any one-
year period, there will be a fine of $50.
      (2)   The third (and subsequent) time the same violation is determined
within any one-year period, there will be a fine of $100.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the
Tippecanoe County Health Department or the Health Officer, shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
or renewed, even if the permittee or operator subsequently acquire its interest
in the pool or spa, until all fines associated with the pool or spa have been
paid in, full. Any fines and late fees may be collected in any manner provided
herein or as provided by law including any law for collection of debts, along
with attorney fees incurred to collect said amounts owing and with all costs of
collection.
   (D)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by this chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in this chapter. Any request for an appeal shall be filed
in writing with the Health Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil
penalty.
(Ord. 2018-16-CM, passed 9-17-18)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND HIGHWAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Road improvements by private developers
   
96.02   Highway oiling/treatment permits
Highway Access Standards
   
96.15   Purpose
   
96.16   Private drive access standards
   
96.17   Public utility access standards
   
96.18   Permit application
   
96.19   Permit fees
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Thoroughfare Plan, see
Chapter 158
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 ROAD IMPROVEMENTS BY PRIVATE DEVELOPERS.
   (A)   An unimproved county road may be improved by a private developer at
his own expense.
   (B)   An unimproved road is a road that has not been surfaced according to
Tippecanoe County Road Standards.
   (C)   Each application to improve a county road must be submitted to the
County Commissioners.
   (D)   Detailed specifications and plans for each improvement as approved by
the County Highway Department.
   (E)   This section shall be exempt from any Unified Zoning Ordinance
requirement.
(Ord. 3-85-CM, passed 1- -85)
§ 96.02 HIGHWAY OILING/TREATMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides for the issuing of permits for oiling
or treating of highways in the county.
(‘82 Code, § 5-84-1)
   (B)   Compliance procedure.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to oil or
place any petroleum product, greasy material or other foreign substance upon
any portion of any highway in the county, or cause or permit same to be done
without first obtaining a permit for such from the County Highway Department.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for the placing of any oil, petroleum
product, greasy material or other foreign substance upon any highway maintained
by the County Highway Department unless the person so doing agrees in writing
that they will maintain the portion of the highway so treated, that the County
Highway Department will have the right to scarify and rework the portion of
highway so treated at any time without reoiling or retreating any portion of
the highway, and that the person so treating the highway shall agree to hold
harmless the Board of Commissioners and the County Highway Department for any
damages to any motor vehicle or other property of any person which result from
such oiling of the highway or placing any petroleum product, greasy material or
other foreign substance on the highway or permitting such to be done.
      (3)   All requests for permission to oil or place any petroleum product,
greasy material or other foreign substance on any portion of any highway in the
county maintained by the County Highway Department shall be in writing in a
form approved by the County Highway Engineer or the Engineer’s designee.
      (4)   No permission for placing oil or any other petroleum product,
greasy material or other foreign substance upon any highway shall be valid
unless approved in writing by the Board of Commissioners and the County Highway
Department by their duly authorized representative.
(‘82 Code, § 5-84-2) (Ord. 78-9, passed 4-3-78; Am. Ord. 2021-31-CM, passed 11-
15-21)
Penalty, see § 96.99
   HIGHWAY ACCESS STANDARDS
§ 96.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate access to county highways to
insure proper traffic flow, conformance with established standards and adequate
drainage.
(‘82 Code, § 5-83-1)
§ 96.16 PRIVATE DRIVE ACCESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   No private drive or other access way shall be made onto any county
highway, without a specific permit being first duly obtained from the County
Highway Department for that particular drive or access at that particular
location.
   (B)   No entrance shall be closer than five feet to the adjacent property
line and no approach shall be so constructed that any part of the same extends
in front of property belonging to a person other than the permittee, unless
both property owners sign a joint application for a permit, except for
deacceleration lanes, acceleration lanes, or passing lanes, as required by the
County Highway Department.
   (C)   All drainage pipes or tile used in the construction of driveways and
approaches shall be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter and as much larger as
the Department shall deem necessary for proper drainage, and on all new
driveways and approaches shall be furnished by the permittee. All pipe or tile
and other drainage structures used shall meet the approval of the County
Highway Department as to type, quality, size, and length.
   (D)   All driveways and approaches shall be so constructed that they shall
not interfere with drainage of, or cause erosion to the street or highway. If
it is proposed to construct any portion of an approach on a slope or grade
greater than 15%, the grade or slope shall be designated on the application. If
no designation of grade is shown on the application, the approach shall not be
constructed on a grade greater than 15%.
   (E)   All disturbed areas shall be fertilized and seeded or sodded to
prevent erosion.
   (F)   The construction of such driveways and approaches shall not interfere
with any existing structure, utility or any county right-of-way without
specific permission in writing from the County Highway Department or other
owner thereof.
   (G)   Concrete headwalls or other obstacles will not be permitted.
   (H)   All entrances and approaches shall be so located as to provide
adequate sight distance in both directions along the highway for safe access to
the highway without interfering with traffic on the highway.
   (I)   No entrance or approach shall be located or constructed so as to
interfere with or prevent the proper location of necessary highway signs.
   (J)   The permittee shall assume responsibility for all maintenance of such
approaches from the right-of-way line to the edge of the traveled roadway. If
the approach or driveway is built of loose aggregate, the aggregate shall be
bound with some material so as to prevent loose aggregate from being carried
onto the highway pavement, or the permittee shall keep the pavement free of
loose aggregate at all times.
   (K)   No such entrance or approach shall be relocated or its dimensions
altered without written consent of the County Highway Department.
   (L)   On the day preceding the beginning of work under any permit for
approach construction, the permittee shall secure special permission to proceed
from the County Highway Department.
   (M)   The permittee shall assume all responsibility for any injury or damage
to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from the construction
of any approach or driveway.
   (N)   The permittee shall remove or relocate any such entrances or
approaches when requested to do so by the Department in the interest of safety
to highway traffic. For the purpose of road or bridge construction or
improvement, said driveway entrances and approaches shall be removed at any
time upon the request of the County Highway Department. Permits issued for
driveway entrances and approaches may be rescinded at any time by the County
Highway Department. Driveway entrances and approaches must be complete within
one year after the permit is issued: otherwise, their permit will be canceled.
   (O)   The right-of-way area adjacent to or between the approaches may be
graded at the permittee’s expense, subject to drainage requirements as
determined by the County Highway Department. The permittee may plant in this
area, grass, flowers, or low growing shrubs that never attain sufficient height
to obstruct clear vision in any direction or interfere with drainage.
   (P)   All work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans; and the
latest issue of the Indiana State Highway Standard Specifications, and shall
meet the approval of the County Highway Department.
   (Q)   No driveway or other vehicle access road onto a public highway shall
be less than 12 feet in width where it crosses the side ditch and the drainage
pipe shall be exposed at least 12 inches at each side of the driveway or access
road.
   (R)   Each driveway permit shall specify the type of use permitted on the
driveway for which the permit is granted, and no alteration or other type use
of such driveway, when constructed, shall be permitted without reapplication
and the granting of a new permit for the additional or altered use of the
driveway.
(‘82 Code, § 5-83-2) (Ord. - -, passed 11-19-73)
§ 96.17 PUBLIC UTILITY ACCESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct, operate, maintain or install any
wire, cables or other equipment for the transmission of electric current,
impulses, sounds, voices or communications in, on, over, across or along any
street or highway or the right of way therefor, in the county without having
fully complied with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   No one shall construct, install, operate or maintain any wires, cables
or other lines of any nature on, over, across or along the right-of-way of any
street or highway of the county unless the person or entity has complied with
the National Electric Safety Code and has provided the County Building
Commissioner with a certificate of insurance in an amount not less than
$500,000 naming Tippecanoe County as the certificate holder. If the person or
entity does not provide a certificate of insurance, then all cables or other
lines of any nature on, over across or along the right-of-way of any street or
highway of the county shall be not less than 20 feet from the ground or other
surface immediately under such wire, cable or lines; and, if the wires, cables,
or other lines carry electric current of 110 volts or more, it shall be
unlawful to construct, install, operate or maintain any such wire, cable or
line at a height less than 25 feet from the ground or other surface immediately
under the wire, cable or line.
(‘82 Code, § 5-83-3) (Ord. 77-13, passed 5-23-77; Am. Ord. 84-1, passed 1-16-
84)
§ 96.18 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall cut, dig, trench, or otherwise interfere with the
surface, or subsurface, of any highway or street which is a part of the county
highway system, or the easement adjacent to any such highway unless such person
shall first obtain a permit from the office of the County Highway Engineer.
Requests for permits shall be made on forms acceptable to the County Highway
Engineer. Without limitation on forms that may be required by the County
Highway Engineer, the County Highway Engineer shall prepare forms acceptable
for the following:
      (1)   Permission to cut into a county highway or street or work within
the right- of-way.
      (2)   Permit bonds.
      (3)   Driveway and entrance construction intersecting with a county
highway or other county right-of-way.
      (4)   Installation of a pole line on, or across, any county highway or
street, or the right-of-way adjacent thereto.
      (5)   Permission to close, or block, any county highway or street.
      (6)   Permission to transport over weight and/or oversized objects of any
nature over, across, or along county highways or streets.
   (B)   The minimum bond required of any person obtaining a permit pursuant to
this section is $5,000, which bond shall be a continuing one and shall remain
in effect for a period of three years from the time the work is completed,
which bond is to assure the county that county specifications have been adhered
to and all work done in a workmanlike manner, except that the minimum bond
required of private property owners for work performed in the right-of-way
adjacent to their own property shall be $1,000. The County Highway Engineer
shall review bonds submitted under this section to determine that they are in
the proper form and, for any bond in an amount equal or less than $10,000, is
authorized to accept such bonds under this section on behalf of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The forms prepared by the County Highway Engineer under this section
are a part of the county highway engineering program, and are to be used in
accordance with all regulations of the County Highway Department.
(‘82 Code, § 5-83-4) (Ord. 76-24, passed 8-1-76; Am. Ord. 2021-31-CM, passed
11-15-21)
§ 96.19 PERMIT FEES.
   On the following page is a schedule of fees for uses of right-of-way and/or
interference with normal use of county highways charged by the County Highway
Department.
SCHEDULE OF FEES CHARGED BY THE COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
Driveways
Residential driveway               $25.00
   Farm field entrance            $25.00
   Existing driveway            $20.00
   Parcelization driveway         $100.00
   Commercial driveway            $100.00
   Minor subdivision            $100.00
   Major subdivision/rural estate         $200.00
   Temporary driveway            $10.00
Road cuts
Gravel road
   12' width or any part thereof         $7.50 * foot depth * lane
          Minimum gravel road cut fee         $50.00
   Hard surface (including chip and seal)
   12' width or any part thereof         $15.00 * foot depth * lane
    Minimum gravel road cut fee      $100.00
Note: Per Commissioner's Policy, formally accepted January 17, 1994, “No hard surface roads
(asphalt, concrete, chip and seal) should have open cuts, unless it is physically impossible to
push or bore under the roadway and/or is economically a hardship.” Therefore, all open road cut
applications shall be approved    by the Executive Director of the Highway Department. (For
further clarification see Commissioner's Meeting Minutes from January 14, 1994.)
Plowing in cable            $30.00 or $0.05 per linear foot, whichever is greater
Trenching
   To 24" top width         $0.25 per liner foot, with minimum fee of $30.00
   Over 24" top width         See Excavation below
Excavation
Maximum depth * Maximum length *      $0.25 per square foot (based on 1:1 side slopes)
   Minimum fee               $30.00
   Perimeter               $30.00
Boring or pushing under roadway
Total cost per location (including bore pits)$30.00 per bore
Overwidth objects
   Other than listed below            $75.00
   Home transport
   Per mobile home               $20.00
          Per modular home section            $20.00
Pole line
Per mile                     $250.00 ($0.04 per linear foot for less than 1 mile)
   Minimum fee                  $30.00
Note: The symbol * indicates the use of multiplication.
 
(‘82 Code, §5-83-5) (Ord. 76-25, passed 8-1-76; Am. Ord. 80-25, passed 11-3-80;
Am. Ord. 2002-40-CM, passed 11-4-02)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
CHAPTER 97: CONSUMER FIREWORKS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Use or discharge of consumer fireworks prohibited except on certain
dates and times
   
97.03   Enforcement
   
97.04   Seizure and forfeiture of consumer fireworks
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJUSTED URBAN AREA BOUNDARY. The boundary of urbanized areas in Tippecanoe
County as designated by the U.S. Bureau of the Census following the most recent
decennial census and thereafter adjusted by the Area Plan Commission of
Tippecanoe County.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK. As provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
   FIREWORK. As provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
(Ord. 2013-25-CM, passed 8-19-13)
§ 97.02 USE OR DISCHARGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS PROHIBITED EXCEPT ON CERTAIN
DATES AND TIMES.
   (A)   This chapter applies only to those unincorporated areas of the county
that are within the adjusted urban area boundary as defined in §
97.01.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks may only be used or discharged within the
unincorporated areas of the county on the following dates and times, as
provided in I.C. 22-11-14-10.5:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2013-25-CM, passed 8-19-13) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Tippecanoe County Sheriff’s Department is responsible for the
interpretation and civil enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-25-CM, passed 8-19-13)
§ 97.04 SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   Enforcement personnel from the Tippecanoe County Sheriff’s Department may
seize and dispose of consumer fireworks that are used in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-25-CM, passed 8-19-13)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the seizure and disposition of consumer fireworks that are
used in violation of this chapter, whoever violates any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $250. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2013-25-CM, passed 8-19-13)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
         
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
         
112.   HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES
         
113.   BODY MODIFICATION
CHAPTER 110: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Title
   
110.002   Purpose
   
110.003   Authority
   
110.004   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
110.005   Definitions
Permits
   
110.015   Permit requirements
   
110.016   Posting
   
110.017   Separate permits
   
110.018   Application for permit
   
110.019   Permit denial
   
110.020   Permit issuance
   
110.021   Term
   
110.022   Permit not transferable
Construction, Renovation, and Alteration of Food Establishments and Vending
Machines
   
110.035   Construction
   
110.036   Plans
   
110.037   Equipment
   
110.038   Prohibited equipment
   
110.039   Compliance
   
110.040   Grease trap
Application and Permit Fees
   
110.055   Fees
   
110.056   Application fees
   
110.057   Fees for renewals
   
110.058   Permit revoked
   
110.059   No permit or late renewal
   
110.060   Exemptions
   
110.061   Minimum standards insufficient
Minimum Sanitary Requirements
   
110.070   Sanitary requirements
Education
   
110.085   Food safety
Inspections
   
110.100   Frequency of inspection
   
110.101   Authority to inspect and copy records
Violations
   
110.115   Procedures when violations are noted
   
110.116   Examination and condemnation of food
   
110.117   Emergency closure
   
110.118   Temporary food service establishment permit suspension/closure
   
110.119   Permit revocation
   
110.120   Hearing
Enforcement
   
110.130   Enforcement
   
110.131   Violations
   
110.132   Injunction
   
110.133   Expense
   
110.134   Cumulative
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Food Establishments Regulations of Tippecanoe County, and may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the
preparation and distribution of food through food service operations within
Tippecanoe County, and to otherwise promote the mission of the food protection
program to protect the health of all persons in Tippecanoe County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.003 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer of Tippecanoe County, as hereinafter defined, and the
Health Officer's agents and representatives are hereby authorized to issue
permits, collect permit and incidental fees, perform inspections, order or
otherwise compel correction of violations of this chapter, and are otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.004 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the State of Indiana and Indiana State Department
of Health as found in I.C. 16-42-5.2, Title 410 IAC 7-15.5, Title 410 IAC 7-23,
and 410 IAC 7-24, are hereby incorporated by reference in this chapter and
shall include any later amendments to those regulations.
   (B)   Copies of the above referenced regulations are available and on file
in the office of the Tippecanoe County Health Department and the Tippecanoe
County Auditor.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07; Am. Ord. 2022-05-CM, passed 5-16-22)
§ 110.005 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the definitions of the
current food service requirements of the Indiana State Department of Health and
their interpretations shall apply to the enforcement of this chapter. In
addition to or to otherwise supplement or to conveniently provide definitions
for interpretation, this chapter shall include the following definitions.
   BOARD. The Tippecanoe County Board of Health of Tippecanoe County, Indiana.
   CERTIFIED FOOD HANDLER. As defined in I.C. 16-42-5.2-4 means a food handler
who holds a certificate, letter, or other document that verifies that the
individual has passed an accreditation examination given by an accredited
testing service recognized by the Conference for Food Protection or an
equivalent nationally recognized certification program as determined by the
State Department of Health.
   CRITICAL VIOLATIONS. Those violations designated as being critical in 410
IAC 7-24, and as may be amended hereafter.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. Includes those diseases which epidemiological evidence
indicates can be transmitted through food preparation or service.
   DEPARTMENT. The Tippecanoe County Health Department of Tippecanoe County,
Indiana, and its employees.
   FOOD OR BEVERAGE VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device offered for public
use which,  upon insertion of paper money, coins or tokens, or by other similar
means, dispenses unit servings of food or beverage products, either in bulk or
in package.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-137, any building, room,
basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar, or open or enclosed area occupied
or used for handling food. This definition also includes a retail food
establishment as defined in 410 IAC 7-24; however, it does not include a bed
and breakfast establishment.
   FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT.  Any commercial establishment in which food
is processed or otherwise prepared, packaged or manufactured for human
consumption.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the Tippecanoe County Health
Department, and his or her authorized representatives.
   MACHINE LOCATION. Includes, but not limited to, any room, enclosure, space
or area where one or more food or beverage vending machines are installed or
operated.
   MOBILE FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment without a fixed
location capable of being readily moved intact from location to location where
food, intended for human consumption outside of the facility, is stored, sold
or offered in prepackaged form, fresh or frozen.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment without a fixed
location capable of being readily moved intact from location to location where
food, intended for human consumption outside the facility is stored, sold or
offered in open form, fresh or frozen.
   NEW PERMITTEE. Shall be deemed to be any person, other than an immediate
family member, who acquires, through an asset purchase agreement, stock
purchase agreement, merger, consolidation, gift or other similar method, more
50% of the control of a prior permittee's business.
   NON-CRITICAL VIOLATIONS. Violations designated as being non-critical in 410
IAC 7-24, and as amended hereafter.
   OPERATE (and its derivatives). One that operates a business or operates as a
business.
   PERMIT.  A certificate or a permit number of a size and style previously
approved by the Health Officer.
   PERMITTEE. Includes the person who is the owner of or responsible for the
operation of a food establishment, including a food establishment's authorized
representative, and who shall be responsible for the acceptance of all notices
at the address listed on the application for any permit issued hereunder.
   PERSON. Includes, but not limited to, an individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, proprietorship, association, business organization, municipality
or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, trust or estate,
or the agent or legal representative thereof.
   RETAIL FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment, including, but not
limited to, a grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish market, egg market,
delicatessen, confectionery, candy kitchen, nut store, retail bakery store, or
any food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food, intended for
human consumption off the premises, is manufactured, produced, stored,
prepared, handled, transported, sold or offered with or without charge.
Provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not include meat
or poultry slaughterhouses.
   SAFE HOLDING TEMPERATURE. As indicated in 410 IAC 7-24, as it may be
hereafter amended, and as applied to potentially hazardous foods shall mean
food temperatures at 41º Fahrenheit or below, and 135º Fahrenheit or above, and
frozen foods at 0º Fahrenheit or below; provided, however, a tolerance of 5º
Fahrenheit shall be permitted on frozen foods only.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any food establishment in any
enclosure, stall or other facility, whether fixed or mobile, operating at one
site or location for a period of time not in excess of 14 consecutive days, in
conjunction with a single event or celebration, where food in open form
intended for human consumption on or off the premises is offered with or
without charge.
   UTENSIL. Any implement used in the storage, preparation, service,
consumption, display, transportation, or cleaning of food or drink products.
   VENDING OPERATOR. Includes, but not limited to, any person who by contract,
agreement, or ownership, takes responsibility for furnishing, installing,
servicing, operating, or maintaining one or more food or beverage vending
machines which dispense potentially hazardous food or beverage products.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07; Am. Ord. 2022-05-CM, passed 5-16-22)
PERMITS
§ 110.015 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away any food or to
operate a food establishment or to act, whether actually or ostensibly, as a
food establishment operator within Tippecanoe County, Indiana, without
possessing a valid permit for each such operation from the Health Officer,
unless otherwise exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.016 POSTING.
   All permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place in view of the public in
each food establishment. With respect to mobile food service establishments,
the name, address and telephone number of the permittee shall be conspicuously
displayed on each licensed mobile unit not less than two inches in height. In
addition, a copy of the permit must be located in each mobile unit at all times
for purposes of identification.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.017 SEPARATE PERMITS.
   (A)   Separate permits will be required for each food establishment or
vending operator regardless of whether or not they are contained in the same
building when:
      (1)   The management or ownership is separate at the same location; or
      (2)   The food establishment is operated by the same management, but as
or at separate locations.
   (B)   Separate permits will not be required for a food establishment that
serves alcoholic beverages and is operated under a lease management agreement
or similar agreement in which the operator of the food establishment is not the
same as the holder of the alcohol license issued by the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.018 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be made to the Health Officer on
forms provided by the Health Officer. Such forms shall show, among other
information which may be required by the Health Officer, the legal name,
address, and telephone number of the permittee, the name under which said
permittee intends to operate, the address of the establishment, and the number
of food establishment personnel employed at the establishment (which shall
include the permittee's manager, or other supervisory personnel). Said
application shall include the signature of the permittee or an authorized
representative of the permittee.
   (B)   Applications for the following list of establishments require
additional information:
      (1)   Vending machines. The number of vending machines intended to be
operated, the location of any commissary or commissaries, the number and type
of food or beverage vending machines, the locations maintained by the permittee
where supplies are kept or where vending machines are repaired or renovated,
and the type and form of the food or beverages to be dispensed from the vending
machines.
      (2)   Farmer's market. The location of any commissary or commissaries and
where any supplies will be kept.
      (3)   Temporary food service. The location of any commissary or
commissaries and where any supplies will be kept.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.019 PERMIT DENIAL.
   If an application for a permit is denied, the denial shall be in writing and
include the specific reasons, with citations to any applicable statute,
regulation, or other authority for the denial. In addition, the applicant's
right of appeal shall be noted with reference to the section of this chapter
providing for appeals.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.020 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A permit shall be issued subsequent to application and upon a determination
by the Health Officer that the permittee has complied with all of the
applicable provisions of this chapter, the permittee has tendered the
appropriate fee as hereinafter specified, and after approval by any other
applicable regulatory agency or department, including but not limited to the
Building Commissioner, City Engineer, and Fire Department and compliance with
any other state or local ordinance, statute, or regulation.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.021 TERM.
   (A)   (1)   The permit for a retail food service establishment, retail food
market establishment, mobile food service establishment, mobile food market
establishment, bed and breakfast, vending operator, commissary, or food
processing establishment shall be for a term of one year beginning upon the
date of issue.
      (2)   Said permits shall be renewed annually on or before the last day of
the anniversary month which is one year after issuance of the permit. However,
if the day of expiration of the permit falls on a weekend or government-
recognized holiday, the permittee will be given until the following business
day to renew the permit without late fees being assessed.
   (B)   The permit for a temporary food service establishment shall be for a
term not to exceed 14 consecutive days.
   (C)   Any permit for a farmers market shall be for a term of up to one year
running from May 1 the year of issue to April 30 the year after issue.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.022 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit issued to any permittee under this chapter shall be transferable
between locations or between operators.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION, AND ALTERATION OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND VENDING
MACHINES
§ 110.035 CONSTRUCTION.
   All food establishments which are hereinafter constructed or renovated shall
conform in their construction to the applicable requirements of 410 IAC 7-24,
as amended, as well as with this chapter and all applicable building, zoning
and fire codes.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.036 PLANS.
   No construction, renovation, or alteration for any food establishment shall
begin without the construction, renovation, or alteration plans being first
submitted to and approved by the Health Officer. Applications, including any
specificity required for particular materials required by any regulatory
agency, must be filled out in full or the application may be denied.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.037 EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment installed in a food establishment for use in the cleansing and
bactericidal treatment of utensils, or in the preparation, storing, handling,
cleaning, sanitizing, serving, or displaying of any food or beverage products,
shall be of a type conforming with all applicable requirements with regard to
proper holding temperatures, design, construction, location, and materials.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.038 PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT.
   The Health Officer may prohibit the further use of any equipment that fails
to meet the requirements of this chapter or any other rule, regulation, or
statute that applies to the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.039 COMPLIANCE.
   All individuals and entities regulated by this chapter must fully comply at
all times with all local and state building, zoning, and fire codes as a
condition of any permit. Failure of any permittee to fully comply with any
applicable building, zoning, and fire code shall be the basis for the
suspension, immediate closure or revocation or nonrenewal of any permit issued
hereunder.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
§ 110.040 GREASE TRAP.
   Unless exempted by that agency or authority having jurisdiction over sewer
lines, all food establishments shall be required to install a grease
interceptor in the waste line leading from sinks, drains and other fixtures or
equipment where grease may be introduced into the drainage or sewage systems in
quantities that can affect line stoppage or hinder sewage treatment. The grease
interceptor must be installed in such a manner that meets all applicable
requirements of any applicable Building Department and shall be located in such
areas as are easily accessible for cleaning.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEES
§ 110.055 FEES.
   Prior to the issuance or renewal of any permit, each permittee shall first
tender to the Tippecanoe County Health Department an application fee and a
permit fee for each such operation in accordance with the classification as
established in the following schedule of fees.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.056 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Each new food establishment or bed and breakfast or any existing food
establishment or bed and breakfast desiring to remodel or build any additions
requiring a building or other permit which includes renovations to the food
preparation area shall be required to pay an initial fee for the review of
plans and specifications and for the initial inspection of the food
establishment bed and breakfast. This fee is in addition to the permit fee. In
the instance where there are multiple food establishments or areas within one
building which will require staged final inspections at separate times, an
application fee as set out below will be required for each final inspection.
   (B)   Application fees shall be those set forth in §
112.20.
   (C)   Additional inspections or review.  In those circumstances where
building or remodeling of a food establishment results in more than three
inspections of the food establishment’s premises or continuing review of or
consultations regarding the plans thereof by the Health Officer, and which
inspections or review or consultations are necessitated due to failure to have
the plans completed or finalized at the time of application for a permit or the
failure to implement construction or remodeling consistent with the original
plans, or any other cause within the control of the food establishment which
results in continuing and extra review of or consultation regarding the plans
for the food establishment, there shall be an additional fee of $100 payable
prior to opening the food establishment.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07; Am. Ord. 2022-05-CM, passed 5-16-22)
§ 110.057 FEES FOR RENEWAL.
   Upon renewal or transfer (not requiring plan review) of permits, the fees
set forth in §
112.20 will apply.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07; Am. Ord. 2022-05-CM, passed 5-16-22)
§ 110.058 PERMIT REVOKED.
   A food service establishment permit shall be revoked if false information is
given on the application or the application is not properly or accurately
completed.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.059 NO PERMIT OR LATE RENEWAL. 
   Should any permittee fail to obtain the permit prior to the opening of the
food establishment for business, or should any permittee fail to renew a permit
as required by this chapter, then said annual fee shall be 125% of the annual
fee set forth above for that particular food establishment. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the Health Officer from exercising any other rights or
duties regarding suspension, closure, or revocation of the permit with regard
to any food establishment.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.060 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The permit fee provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any fruit
and vegetable stands maintained and operated by a person who sells directly to
a consumer fresh fruits, vegetables, honey or cider; provided that, nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the Health Officer's authority to inspect
any such stands in order to insure public health.
   (B)   Food establishments or vending operators which comply with the terms
and provisions of I.C.16-42-5-4 (as may be recodified and remaining applicable
to exempt organizations), shall upon proof of exemption be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter unless they waive said exemption. Exempt
organizations such as sports leagues, church- sponsored soup kitchens,
churches, and temporary senior citizen feeding sites are exempt from the permit
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Food establishments which sell or offer for sale directly to the
consumer only prepackaged confections such as candy, chewing gum, nut meats,
potato chips, pretzels, popcorn, coffee, juice, and soft drink beverages shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Vending machines which dispense non-potentially hazardous food or
drink products in prepackaged or pre-bottled form, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.061 MINIMUM STANDARDS INSUFFICIENT. 
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to provide standards for
licensing for and inspection of food establishments. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to require the Health Officer to issue or prevent
the revocation of a permit if, after investigation by the Health Officer, the
Health Officer concludes that issuance or continuation of a permit results in
unacceptable health risks resulting from the size or configuration of the food
establishment, change of use or type of food being served compared with
existing facilities for the food establishment, and the likelihood that efforts
to ameliorate increased health risks resulting therefrom will be unsuccessful.
Any decision by the Health Officer to refuse to issue a permit or to revoke a
permit for reasons found in this section shall entitle an aggrieved food
establishment to a public hearing as provided in this chapter and a right to
appeal as provided herein or by law.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
MINIMUM SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.070 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   All food establishments, retail food markets, farmers markets, bed and
breakfasts, vending operators, and food and beverage vending machines shall
comply with at least the minimum sanitary requirements specified by the Indiana
State Department of Health as provided in 410 IAC 7-24 and 410 IAC 7-22, and as
those regulations may be amended or superseded hereafter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
Penalty, see § 110.999
EDUCATION
§ 110.085 FOOD SAFETY.
   (A)   Every person who is employed, or is about to be employed in a food
establishment, shall be familiar with the requirements of 410 IAC 7-24. A copy
of 410 IAC 7-24 shall be kept on the premises at all times. All food
establishment personnel employed by a food establishment may be required to
attend a food safety education program given by the Department for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   If the establishment is subjected to immediate closure by the
Health Officer and the education program is deemed necessary by the Health
Officer.
      (2)   If the Health Officer determines the necessity of a food safety
education program as a result of a hearing dealing with violations of this
chapter.
      (3)   If upon inspection it is determined that remedial efforts have not
been made to correct prior violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The Department shall charge a flat fee of $200 to each food
establishment for conducting the food education program required by this
section.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
INSPECTIONS
§ 110.100 FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION.
   Each food establishment for which a permit is required under the provisions
of this chapter shall, and any other individual or entity which delivers or
transfers food, may be inspected as frequently as deemed appropriate by the
Health Officer.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.101 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND COPY RECORDS. 
   The provisions of I.C. 16-20-8-1 et. seq. or any amendment thereof shall
apply to inspections and access to records of inspections.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
VIOLATIONS
§ 110.115 PROCEDURES WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)   At the time of an inspection any violation(s) discovered by the Health
Officer shall be recorded on an inspection report that is equivalent to the
Indiana State Department of Health inspection report.
   (B)   A copy of the inspection report stating any violation(s) and their
corrective dates shall be given to the person-in-charge of the establishment,
or the report shall be delivered by mail to the address of the establishment
listed on the permit application, as required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (C)   The Health Officer, or the Health Officer's authorized representative,
shall have the final approval on all food establishment inspection reports and
related documents; and shall reserve the right to make changes as deemed
necessary in accordance with I.C. 16-20-8-5.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.116 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD. 
   The Health Officer may, along with any other enforcement agency (if
applicable), upon written notice to the owner or person in charge, place a hold
order on any food if that food is in violation of any state laws. A written
order must specify the reason for the hold order. The Health Officer or their
authorized agent shall tag, label, or otherwise identify any food subject to
the order and follow applicable statutes or regulations concerning disposal or
future use or disposition of the food.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.117 EMERGENCY CLOSURE.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall issue emergency closure for a retail food
establishment, bed and breakfast, vending machine operation, and farmers market
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to possess a valid food permit required by this chapter.
      (2)   The presence of any condition that poses an imminent health hazard
or substantial harm to the public health and safety.
   (B)   Procedure. Any closure order will be in writing. The order shall
identify the food establishment, describe the specified grounds upon which
closure is based, direct the immediate closure of the establishment and
vacating of the premises by consumers, list the corrective actions necessary to
re-open the food establishment, and state that a hearing on the emergency
closure may be requested by the owner or operator. The order shall be served in
person on the owner, or person in charge of the establishment.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.118 TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT SUSPENSION/ CLOSURE.
   (A)   The Health Officer may suspend a permit for a temporary food
establishment for any of the following reasons without prior notice or hearing:
      (1)   The operation of the temporary food establishment is deemed an
imminent health hazard by the Health Department due to certain conditions,
including but not limited to Title IAC 410 7-24 or this chapter.
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer to perform their duties,
including denial of access to the premises.
   (B)   When a permit is suspended the temporary food service establishment
shall cease operation immediately. The suspension shall become effective upon
service of a written notice to the permit holder or person in charge of the
establishment.
   (C)   The Health Department may end the suspension at any time with or
without a hearing if it is determined that the reason of the suspension no
longer exists.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.119 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer, after providing an opportunity for a hearing shall
permanently revoke a retail food establishment, bed and breakfast
establishment, vending machine operation, or farmers market establishment
permit for serious or repeat violation(s) of any of the requirements of Title
IAC 410 7-24 or this chapter; or, interference with the Health Officer or the
Health Officer's agent(s) in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Prior to such action, the Health Officer shall notify the permittee in
writing stating the reasons for the permit revocation and advising that the
permit shall be permanently revoked after no less than ten days following
service of such notice; unless a written request for a hearing is filed with
the Health Department by the permittee prior to the date upon which the permit
revocation is to become effective. The permit may be suspended for cause
pending its revocation or a hearing.
   (C)   If no request for a hearing is filed prior to the date the permit
revocation is to become effective, revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.120 HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section, shall be open
to the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the permittee to appear and participate in
the hearing. The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee by
leaving or mailing by certified mail the notice to the address listed on the
permit application as the permittee's mailing address or such other address as
the permittee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer's designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Health Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal to a court having jurisdiction of
the parties and of the subject matter of the appeal.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.130 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void. A violation of an order issued by the Health Officer
shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter and of Indiana law, when
applicable.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.131 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any entity subject to the
provisions of this chapter, is in willful violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty imposed by this
chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to
the Prosecuting Attorney of Tippecanoe County, Indiana or the attorney for the
Board who shall seek all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s)
violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.132 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
any Superior Court of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, to restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation(s) to be
prevented, abated or removed, or to otherwise enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.133 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the Health Department for the expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of such violation, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.134 CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this subchapter shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   The provisions of Title 410 IAC 7-23 provides local health departments with
authority to assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to
suppress disease and health risks associated with preparation and distribution
of food. For purposes of tracking critical item violations and imposing fines
under this chapter the Department shall maintain inspection records for not
less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted after the
effective date of this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a "critical
item" violation is noted within any one year period after the effective date of
this chapter. For a second or subsequent "critical item" violation of this
chapter after its effective date, or within one year of the date of an
inspection conducted after the effective date of this chapter, a civil penalty
is payable as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   Except as set forth under I.C. 16-42-5.2, the following civil
penalties (fine) shall apply for a “critical item” violation which reoccurs for
a second or subsequent time within any one year period after the effective date
of this chapter, regardless if that “critical item” can be corrected
immediately:
      (1)   The second time the same “critical item” violation is determined
within any one year period, there will be a fine of $50.
      (2)   The third time the same “critical item” violation is determined
within any one year period, there will be a fine of $100.
      (3)   If the same “critical item” reappears as a violation for a fourth
(or more) time within any one year period, there will be a fine of $200.
      (4)   Violations of I.C. 16-42-5.2 concerning food handling shall be
subject to the civil penalties set forth in I.C. 16-42-5.2-12.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the Health
Department or the Health Officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
or renewed until all fines have been paid in full. Any fines and late fees may
be collected in any manner provided herein or as provided by law including any
law for collection of debts, along with attorney fees incurred to collect said
amounts owing and with all costs of collection.
   (D)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by this chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in §
110.120 of this chapter. Any request for an appeal shall be filed in writing
with the Health Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil penalty.
(Ord. 2007-19-CM, passed 6-4-07; Am. Ord. 2022-05-CM, passed 5-16-22)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application for license; fee
   
111.04   Issuance
   
111.05   Term
   
111.06   Transfer prohibited
   
111.07   Exhibition upon request
   
111.08   Hours of validity
   
111.09   Exempted persons and sales
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates hawkers, peddlers, solicitors and itinerant vendors
in the county.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-1) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any hawker, peddler, solicitor, or itinerant
vendor, by wholesale or retail, in goods, wares or merchandise to offer the
same for sale in the county, in the State of Indiana, or to go from house to
house, office to office or place to place in the county and offer for sale any
such goods, wares of merchandise, or to solicit orders for any such merchandise
to persons not dealers in such commodities, for either present or future
delivery, without having first obtained a license so to do, except as herein
provided.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-2) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   A written application for the license required by the preceding
section shall be filed with the Sheriff not less than one day before such
license is desired, which application shall state the name and the residence of
the applicant, the kind of goods to be offered for sale, or the type of goods
for which solicitation is being made, and the length of time during which such
goods will be offered for sale, or such solicitations will be made. Such
application shall be sworn to by the applicant.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-3)
   (B)   The fees for the issuance of a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall be $1. All such fees shall be paid in advance.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-4) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE.
   Upon the filing of an application under this chapter, and not less than one
day after the date of such filing, a license shall be issued to the applicant
upon the payment of the fees prescribed therefore.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-5) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.05 TERM.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter for less than one day or for a
longer period than one month. If any licensee desires to continue in business
after the expiration of his license, he must secure a new license in the same
manner and upon the same terms as the original.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-6) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
§ 111.06 TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable, nor shall any
person other than the licensee named in the license be permitted to use the
same. No license shall protect any person other than the named licensee from
incurring penalties for violating this chapter.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-7) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
§ 111.07 EXHIBITION UPON REQUEST.
   No person to whom a license has been issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall refuse, upon request made, to show such license to any police
officer of the county or to any person to whom he shall offer to sell any
goods, wares or merchandise, or from whom he solicits any orders for
merchandise.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-8) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.08 HOURS OF VALIDITY.
   The license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be valid
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. and no person shall go from
house to house, office to office, or place to place in the county to offer
merchandise for sale, or to solicit orders for merchandise to persons not
dealers in such commodities, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-11) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.09 EXEMPTED PERSONS AND SALES.
   (A)   Any person exempted by the laws of this state from the payment of a
license fee shall, before beginning the business described in
§ 111.01, present to the Sheriff his credentials, showing that he is entitled
to such exemption, and the Sheriff shall issue such license forthwith without
such fee. No certificate issued under the provisions of this section shall be
transferable.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-9)
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales of seeds or
fertilizers to farmers, sales of vegetables, fruits or other articles of food
raised, prepared, cultivated or produced by the seller, or to the sale of
religious works.
(‘82 Code, § 2-21-10) (Ord. - -, passed 4-5-76)
CHAPTER 112: HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Authority
Fees and Charges
   
112.20   Schedule of fees and charges
Cross-reference:
   Health Department Fees, see also §
34.26
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Tippecanoe County Health Department Fee Regulations, and may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2006-30-CM, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord, 2007-20-CM, passed 5-21-07; Am. Ord.
2007-40-CM, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2016-03-CM, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2018-
15-CM, passed 9-4-18)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth a uniform schedule of charges
and fees to be collected by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2006-30-CM, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord, 2007-20-CM, passed 5-21-07; Am. Ord.
2007-40-CM, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2016-03-CM, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2018-
15-CM, passed 9-4-18)
§ 112.03 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-27, fees for services and records may be
established by the Board of Commissioners and collected by local health
departments.
(Ord. 2006-30-CM, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord, 2007-20-CM, passed 5-21-07; Am. Ord.
2007-40-CM, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2016-03-CM, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2018-
15-CM, passed 9-4-18)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 112.20 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
    There is hereby established the following uniform schedule of charges and
fees which shall be charged and collected for services and products provided by
the County Health Department:
Birth certificates (sleeve included)  $15.00
Death certificates (certified)*       $15.00
Death certificates (non- certified)*  $15.00
Paternity affidavit                   $30.00
Search/copy filed paternity affidavit $10.00
Affidavit of amendment                $15.00
Registration of home birth            $35.00
Affidavit correction                  $15.00
Genealogy search                      $25.00
Plastic sleeves                       $3.00
 
* fees for death certificates shall automatically increase in that amount equal
to any fee increase occurring after December 31, 2018 for the coroner’s
continuing education fee, as presently stated in I.C. 16-37-1-9.
 
Environmental Fees
New construction permits - septic $200.00 per permit
Repairs - septic                  $150.00 per permit
Onsite visit                      $100.00
Perimeter drain/tank replacement  $100.00
 
 
Lead Paint
Lead paint investigation  $150.00
Process lead paint sample $8.00
 
Nursing Division
Nursing Division
Mantoux skin test (TB)                                                         $20.00
TB administration fee                                                          $25.00
Head lice check, individual; prescription available                            $5.00
Head lice check, family; prescription available                                $10.00
STD testing (routine)                                                          $20.00
   may include treatment
Nursing visit/travel appointment                                               $55.00
Immunization administration fee, per vaccine                                   $20.00
Additional immunization charges:                                               - - -
   115% (1.15) of cost of vaccine, not to exceed highest insurance coverage - - -
   TB quantiferon test kit 115% (1.15) of cost of kit
Laboratory service, 115% (1.15) of cost
MAT prescription, insurance only billing
 
Annual Fees for Public/Semi Public Pool
Annual Fees for Public/Semi Public Pool
Water parks                                      $250.00
Swimming pools, seasonal                         $150.00
Swimming pools annual                            $225.00
   additional pools, per establishment        $125.00
Wading pools                                     $150
   additional wading pools, per establishment $75.00
Spas                                             $150.00
additional spas, per establishment               $75.00
Diving pools                                     $125.00
additional diving pools, per establishment       $75.00
Splash pads, other pools                         $150.00
Plan review                                      $150.00
 
 
Annual Fees for Body Modification
Body art establishment permit $200.00
Body art practitioner permit  $100.00
Temporary practitioner fee    $25.00
Apprentice permit fee         $20.00
 
 
Retail Food Market
Establishment Application Fees
1)   Under 3,000 square feet   $200.00
2)   3,001 to 30,000 square fee$225.00
3)   30,001 to 40,000 square fe$325.00
4)   40,001 to 60,000 square fe$500.00
5)   60,001 square feet and ove$75.00
 
 
Retail Food Service
Establishment Application Fees
1)   Application fee for plan review                     $225.00
      additional inspection or review, per follow-up  $50.00
2)   Application fee for plan review (mobile establishmen$150.00
 
 
Annual Permit Fees for Retail
Food Service Establishments
1)   1 through 5 employees$225.00
2)   6 through 9 employees$275.00
3)   10 through 40 employe$400.00
4)   41 employees and over$525.00
 
 
Annual Permit Fees for Retail
Food Market Establishments
1)   Up to 100 square feet     $175.00
2)   101 to 3,000 square feet  $225.00
3)   3001, to 30,000 square fee$275.00
4)   30,001 to 40,000 square fe$400.00
5)   40,001 to 60,000 square fe$425.00
6)   60,001 square feet and ove$700.00
 
Annual Permit Fees for Vending Machine Operators
Annual Permit Fees for Vending Machine Operators
1)   1 to 10 food or beverage vending machine$50.00
2)   11 to 20 food or beverage vending machin$100.00
3)   21 to 50 machines                       $150.00
4)   51 to 100 machines                      $175.00
5)   101 to 200 machines                     $250.00
6)   201 to 300 machines                     $325.00
7)   301 or more machines                    $425.00
 
 
Permit Fees for Temporary Food
Service Establishments
1)   For every 72 consecutive hours of operati$25.00
2)   Each additional day                      $10.00
 
 
Miscellaneous Food and Market Fees
Permit fees for mobile food service and market establishment, per unit, $150.00
annual
Micro markets (1-75 linear feet in length), annual                      $150.00
Permit fees for farmer’s markets, annual                              $25.00
Permit fees for bed and breakfast, annual                               $100.00
Permit replacement                                                      $10.00
Permit processing (excludes renewals only)                              $75.00
 
 
Miscellaneous Administration Fees
1)   If applicable, an additional credit card convenience fee may be
assessed by the credit card processor at a contractually agreed upon rate.
2)   Photo copies      per county rate
3)   No permit or late 125% (1.25) of cost
renewal
 
(Ord. 2006-30-CM, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord, 2007-20-CM, passed 5-21-07; Am. Ord.
2007-40-CM, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2011-09-CM, passed 3-7-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
03-CM, passed 2-1-16; Am. Ord. 2016-05-CM, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 2018-15-CM,
passed 9-4-18; Am. Ord. 2018-24-CM, passed 11-19-18; Am. Ord. 2023-05-CM,
passed 4-3-23)
CHAPTER 113: BODY MODIFICATION
Section
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Purpose
   
113.03   Authority
   
113.04   Definitions
   
113.05   Exemptions
   
113.06   Restrictions
   
113.07   Application for body art establishment permit
   
113.08   Application for body art practitioner permit
   
113.09   Inspections
   
113.10   Operation of body art establishments
   
113.11   Standards of practice
   
113.12   Exposure incident or injury report
   
113.13   Exposure incident or injury report filing
   
113.14   Investigation of complaints
   
113.15   Grounds for suspension, denial, revocation, or refusal to renew permit
   
113.16   Procedures when violations are noted
   
113.17   Emergency closure
   
113.18   Permit revocation
   
113.19   Procedure for hearing
   
113.20   Enforcement
   
113.21   Violations
   
113.22   Penalties
   
113.23   Injunction
   
113.24   Expense
   
113.25   Cumulative
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Body Modification Ordinance of Tippecanoe County, and may be cited
as such and will be referenced herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE.
   Body art is becoming prevalent and popular throughout Indiana. Knowledge and
practice of universal precautions, sanitation, personal hygiene, sterilization
and aftercare requirements on the part of the practitioner should be
demonstrated to prevent the transmission of disease or injury to the client and
body art practitioner. Accordingly, this chapter is passed for regulation of
the practice of body art in Tippecanoe County as part of the mission of the
Tippecanoe County Health Department to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is promulgated under the authority granted to the
Department under 410 IAC 1-5 Sanitary Operations of Tattoo Parlors and the
Department’s statutory authority to promote the public health.
   (B)   This chapter is a health ordinance within the meaning of I.C. 16-20-2-
2(c), applicable to the entire county.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions in 410 IAC 1-5 Sanitary Operation of Tattoo
Parlors, the following definitions apply throughout this chapter:
   AFTERCARE. Written instructions given to the client, specific to the body
art procedure(s) rendered, about caring for the body art and surrounding area,
including information about when to seek medical treatment, if necessary.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity that applies to the Department for either a
body art establishment permit or practitioner permit.
   APPRENTICE. A person learning the trade of tattooing or piercing.
   AUTOCLAVE. An apparatus for sterilization utilizing steam pressure at a
specific temperature over a period of time.
   AUTOCLAVING. A process which results in the destruction of all forms of
microbial life, including highly resistant spores, by the use of an autoclave
for a minimum of thirty minutes at 20 pounds of pressure (PSI) at a temperature
of 270 degrees Fahrenheit.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS STANDARD.  OSHA Guidelines contained in 29 CFR
1910.1030 entitled “Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens”.
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment by permitted
establishments and practitioners, including but not limited to those using the
following techniques: body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding,
and scarification. This definition does not include practices that are
considered medical procedures by the Indiana Medical Association or by another
regulatory body.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT or ESTABLISHMENT. A location, place, or business that
has been granted a permit by the Department, where the practices of body art
are performed, whether or not for profit.
   BODY ART PRACTITIONER or PRACTITIONER. A specifically identified individual
who has been granted a permit by the Department to perform body art in an
establishment that has been granted a permit by the Department.
   BRAIDING. The cutting of strips of skin of a person, which strips are then
to be intertwined with one another and placed onto such person so as to cause
or allow the incised and interwoven strips of skin to heal in such intertwined
condition.
   BRANDING. Inducing a pattern of scar tissue by use of a heated material
(usually metal) applied to the skin, making a serious burn, which eventually
becomes a scar.
   CLEANING AREA. The areas in a body art establishment used in the
sterilization, sanitation or other cleaning of instruments or other equipment
used for the practice of body art.
   CLIENT. A member of the public who requests a body art procedure at a body
art establishment.
   CONTAMINATED WASTE. As provided in 29 Code of Federal Regulation Part
1910.1030, which generally includes any liquid or semi-liquid blood or other
potentially infectious material; contaminated items that would release blood or
other potentially infectious material; contaminated items that would release
blood or other potentially infectious material in a liquid or semi-liquid state
if compressed; items on which there is dried blood or other potentially
infectious material and which are capable of releasing these materials during
handling; sharps and any wastes containing blood other potentially infectious
materials.
   COSMETIC TATTOOING. Also known as permanent cosmetics, micro-pigment
implantation or dermal pigmentation, means the implantation of permanent
pigment around the eyes, lips and cheeks of the face and hair imitation.
   CRITICAL ITEM. Any violation noted by the inspector which can contribute to
an increase in the potential for illness. CRITICAL ITEMS confer a high risk for
infection if they are contaminated with any microorganism.
   DEPARTMENT. The Tippecanoe County Health Department or its agents.
   DISINFECTANT. A product registered as a disinfectant by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   DISINFECTION. The destruction of disease-causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects safe for use or handling.
   EAR PIERCING. The puncturing of the lobe of the ear with a pre-sterilized
single-use stud-and-clasp ear-piercing system following the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sink, and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishments.
   EXPOSURE. An event whereby there is an eye, mouth or other mucus membrane,
non-intact skin or parenteral contact with the blood or body fluids of another
person or contact of an eye, mouth or other mucous membrane, non-intact skin or
parenteral contact with other potentially infectious matter.
   HAND SINK. A lavatory equipped with hot and cold running water under
pressure, used solely for washing hands, arms, or other portions of the body.
   HOT WATER. Water that attains and maintains a temperature over 100 degrees
F.
   INSTRUMENTS USED FOR BODY ART. Hand pieces, needles, needle bars, and other
instruments that may come in contact with a client’s body or may be exposed to
bodily fluids during any body art procedure.
   INVASIVE. Entry into the client’s body either by incision or insertion of
any instruments into or through the skin or mucosa, or by any other means
intended to puncture, break, or otherwise compromise the skin or mucosa.
Procedures such as dermal anchors, which do not fully pierce the skin, are not
considered INVASIVE as long as the location on the body is not considered high
risk.
   JEWELRY. Any ornament inserted into a pierced area, and which must be made
of surgical implant-grade stainless steel, solid 14k or 18k white or yellow
gold, niobium, titanium, or platinum, or a dense, low-porosity plastic, which
is free of nicks, scratches, or irregular surfaces and has been properly
sterilized prior to use.
   LIGHT COLORED. A light reflective value of 70% or greater.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   MOBILE BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. A mobile establishment or unit that is self-
propelled or otherwise movable from place to place and is self-sufficient for
utilities such as gas, water, electricity and liquid waste disposal.
   PERMIT. Department approval in writing to either (1) operate a body art
establishment or (2) operate as a body art practitioner within a body art
establishment. Department approval shall be granted solely for the practice of
body art pursuant to these regulations. Said PERMIT is exclusive of the
establishment’s compliance with other licensing or permitting requirements that
may exist within the Department’s jurisdiction.
   PERSON. An individual, any form of business or social organization or any
other nongovernmental legal entity, including but not limited to corporations,
partnerships, limited-liability companies, associates, trusts or unincorporated
organizations.
   PHYSICIAN. An individual licensed as a qualified physician by the Indiana
Medical Licensing Board.
   PROCEDURES SURFACE. Any surface of an inanimate object that contacts the
client’s unclothed skin during a body art procedure, skin preparation of the
area adjacent to and including the body art procedure, or any associated work
area.
   SANITARY. Clean and free of agents of infection or disease.
   SANITIZE. The process of reducing the number of microorganisms that are on a
properly cleaned surface to a safe level. A safe level is defined as 99.999%
reduction of the number of disease microorganisms that are of public health
importance.
   SCARIFICATION. Altering skin texture by cutting the skin and controlling the
body’s healing process in order to produce wounds, which results in permanently
raised wheals or bumps known as keloids.
   SHARPS. Any object, sterile or contaminated, that may intentionally or
accidentally cut or penetrate the skin or mucosa, including but not limited to,
needle devices, lancets, scalpel blades, razor blades, and broken glass.
   SHARPS CONTAINERS. A puncture-resistant, leak-proof container that can be
closed for handling, storage, transportation, and disposal and that is labeled
with the international biohazard symbol.
   SINGLE USE ITEMS. Products or items that are intended for one-time, one-
person use and are disposed of after use on each client, including, but not
limited to, cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic
cups, gauze and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, scalpel blades,
stencils, ink cups, and protective gloves.
   TATTOOING. Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin
or mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instrument used to puncture the
skin, resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. This term
includes all forms of cosmetic tattooing
   TEMPORARY BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS. A mobile establishment or unit that is
self-propelled or otherwise movable from place to place and is self-sufficient
for utilities such as gas, water, electricity, and liquid waste disposal; also
see the definition of a MOBILE BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT.
   TEMPORARY PRACTITIONER (GUEST ARTIST). Any person who obtains a practitioner
permit that will expire 14 days after the date of issue.
   THREE DIMENSIONAL “3D” BODY ART or BEADING or IMPLANTATION. The form of body
art consisting of or requiring the placement, injection or insertion of an
object, device or other thing made of matters such as steel, titanium, rubber,
latex, plastic, glass or other materials, beneath the surface of the skin of a
person. This term does not include body piercing.
   ULTRASONIC CLEANING UNIT. A unit approve by the Department, physically large
enough to fully submerge instruments in liquid, which removes all foreign
matter from the instruments by means of high frequency oscillations transmitted
through the contained liquid.
   WORK AREA/WORK STATION. The actual area where a tattoo is being applied,
including work surfaces and all sterile equipment being utilized during the
application of a tattoo.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Licensed physicians who perform body art procedures as part of patient
treatment are exempt from these regulations.
   (B)   Individuals who pierce only the lobe of the ear with a presterilized
single-use stud-and-clasp ear-piercing system are exempt from these
regulations.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No tattooing, piercing of genitalia, branding, or scarification shall
be performed on a person under the age of 16.
   (B)   Tattooing and Body piercing, other than piercing the genitalia, may be
performed on a person under the age of 18 provided that the person is
accompanied by a person properly identified as a parent, legal custodial parent
or legal guardian who has signed a form consenting to such a procedure.
“Properly identified” shall mean a valid government issued photo identification
of the adult and a birth certificate of the minor.
   (C)   No body art shall be performed on an animal.
   (D)   No person shall perform a body piercing procedure, in a location or
manner that does not meet the safety and sanitation standards established under
Rule 5, 410 IAC 1-5.
   (E)   The following practices hereby are prohibited: tongue splitting;
braiding; three dimensional/beading/implantation tooth, filing/fracturing/
removal/tattooing; cartilage modification; amputation; genital modification;
and introduction of saline or other liquids.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15) Penalty, see §
113.22
§ 113.07 APPLICATION FOR BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a body art establishment except with a valid
permit from the Department.
   (B)   Applications for a permit shall be made on forms prescribed by and
available from the Department. An applicant shall submit all information
required by the form and accompanying instructions. The term “application” as
used herein shall include the original and renewal applications.
   (C)   An establishment permit shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance unless suspended or revoked sooner by the Department.
   (D)   The Department shall require that the applicant provide, at a minimum,
the following information in order to be issued an establishment permit:
      (1)   (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the body art
establishment;
         (b)   Copy of a photo ID of applicant;
         (c)   The identity of the operator of the establishment;
         (d)   The identity of body art practitioner(s) working at the
establishment;
         (e)   The manufacturer, model number, model year, and serial number of
any autoclave used in the establishment;
         (f)   A signed and dated acknowledgment that the applicant has
received, read and understood the requirements of this chapter;
         (g)   A “to scale” drawing of the floor plan of the proposed
establishment for a plan review by the Department, as part of the permit
application process; and
         (h)   An exposure report plan.
      (2)   Such additional information as the Department may reasonably
require.
   (E)   The annual fee for the body art establishment permit shall be $200.00
or as may from time to time be established by applicable ordinance or rule.
   (F)   A permit for a body art establishment shall not be transferable from
one place or person to another.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15) Penalty, see §
113.22
§ 113.08 APPLICATION FOR BODY ART PRACTITIONER PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall practice body art or perform any body art procedure
within Tippecanoe County without first obtaining a practitioner permit from the
Department. The fee for a practitioner permit shall be $100.00 or as may from
time to time be established by applicable ordinance or rule.
   (B)   A practitioner shall be a minimum of 18 years of age.
   (C)   A practitioner permit shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance unless revoked or suspended sooner by the Department.
   (D)   Application for a practitioner permit shall include:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Date of birth;
      (3)   Residence address;
      (4)   Mailing address;
      (5)   Phone number;
      (6)   Copy of a photo ID;
      (7)   Place(s) of employment as a practitioner; and
      (8)   Training and/or experience as set out hereunder.
   (E)   Practitioner training and experience.
      (1)   In reviewing an application for a practitioner permit, the
Department may consider experience, training and/or certification acquired in
this or other states that regulate body art.
      (2)   Training for all practitioners shall be in a manner approved by the
Department and, at a minimum, shall include the following:
         (a)   Bloodborne pathogen training program (or equivalent) which
includes infectious disease control, waste disposal, handwashing techniques,
disinfection and sterilization methods and techniques; and
         (b)   Current certification in first aid and cardiopulmonary
resuscitation (CPR). Examples of courses approved by the Department include
“Preventing Disease Transmission” (American Red Cross) and “Bloodborne Pathogen
training” (U.S. OSHA). Training/courses provided by professional body art
organizations or associations or by equipment manufacturers may also be
submitted to the Department for approval.
      (3)   The applicant for any permit shall submit evidence satisfactory to
the Department of at least two years actual experience in the practice of
performing body art activities of the kind for which the applicant seeks a body
art practitioner permit to perform, whether such experience was obtained within
or outside of the county.
   (F)   A practitioner’s permit shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter and any other applicable
statutes and regulations. A practitioner’s yearly permit fee will be $100.00.
   (G)   A temporary practitioner (guest artist) must have proof of permit/
experience from another jurisdiction and must register with the Department
prior to performing body art. A temporary practitioner fee shall be $25.00 per
length of stay which may not exceed fourteen (14) days after issuance of the
temporary practitioner permit.
   (H)   Apprentice permit. An apprentice applicant must not be a minor. The
permittee must practice under a permitted practitioner (mentor). The mentor’s
name shall be included in the application. The apprentice shall only practice
in the presence of the mentor. The annual apprentice permit fee is $10.00.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15) Penalty, see §
113.22
§ 113.09 INSPECTIONS.
   The Tippecanoe County Health Department shall conduct a minimum of two
inspections per year of Body Art Establishments permitted under this chapter.
Additional inspections may be conducted by the Department, as it deems
necessary and/or in response to complaints submitted. Violations noted by the
Department shall be corrected immediately by the permitee. The results of the
inspection shall be provided to the establishment. Inspection reports are
public records available to the general public and media.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.10 OPERATION OF BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Unless otherwise ordered or approved by the Department, each body art
establishment shall be constructed, operated and maintained to meet the
following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Physical facilities.
      (1)   Walls, floors, ceilings and procedure surfaces shall be smooth,
durable, free of open holes or cracks, light-colored, washable, and in good
repair. Walls, floors and ceilings shall be maintained in clean condition. All
procedure surfaces, including client chairs and benches, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned and sanitized after each client.
      (2)   Solid partitions or walls extending from floor to ceiling shall
separate the establishment’s space from any other room used for human
habitation, any food establishment or room where food is prepared, any hair
salon, any retail sales, or any other such activity that may cause potential
contamination of work surfaces.
      (3)   The establishment shall take all measures necessary to ensure
against the presence or breeding of insects, vermin and rodents within the
establishment. Pest control records are to be available during normal business
hours.
      (4)   Each operator area shall have a minimum of 45 square feet of floor
space for each practitioner. Each establishment shall have an area that may be
screened from public view for clients requesting privacy. Multiple body art
stations shall be separated by a divider or partition, at a minimum.
      (5)   The establishment shall be well ventilated and provided with an
artificial light source adequate for daily operations and sufficient lighting
shall be provided at the level where the body art procedure is being performed,
where instruments and sharps are assembled, and all cleaning areas.
      (6)   All electrical outlets in operator areas and cleaning shall be
equipped with approved ground fault (GFCI) protected receptacles.
      (7)   A separate, readily accessible hand sink with hot and cold running
water under pressure, equipped with wrist or foot operated controls and
supplied with liquid soap, and disposable paper towels stored in fixed
dispensers shall be readily accessible within the establishment. Each operator
area shall have access to a hand sink.
      (8)   There shall be a sharps container in each operator area and each
cleaning area.
      (9)   There shall be a minimum of one toilet room containing a toilet and
sink. The toilet room shall be provided with toilet paper, liquid hand soap and
paper towels stored in a fixed dispenser. A body art establishment permanently
located within a retail shopping center, or similar setting housing multiple
operations within one enclosed structure having shared entrance and exit
points, shall not be required to provide a separate toilet room within such
body art establishment if Department approved toilet facilities are located in
the retail shopping center within 300 feet of the body art establishment so as
to be readily accessible to any client or practitioner.
      (10)   The public water supply entering a body art establishment shall be
protected by a testable, reduced pressure back flow prevention device installed
in accordance with applicable plumbing codes.
      (11)   At least one covered, foot operated waste receptacle shall be
provided in each operator area and each toilet room. Receptacles in the
operator area shall be emptied daily, or as needed to prevent overflow. Solid
waste shall be stored in covered, leak proof, rodent-resistant containers.
      (12)   A least one janitorial sink shall be provided in each body art
establishment for use in cleaning the establishment and proper disposal of non
contaminated liquid wastes in accordance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws. Said sink shall be of adequate size and equipped with hot and cold
running water under pressure.
      (13)   All instruments and supplies shall be stored in clean, dry, and
covered containers. Containers shall be kept in a secure area specifically
dedicated to the storage of all instruments and supplies.
      (14)   The establishment shall have an equipment cleaning area. Every
cleaning area shall have an area for the placement of an autoclave or other
sterilization unit located or positioned a minimum of 36 inches from the
required ultrasonic cleaning unit.
      (15)   The establishment shall have a customer waiting area, exclusive
and separate from any workstation, instrument storage area, cleaning area or
any other area in the body art establishment used for body art activity.
      (16)   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art
establishment except service animals used by persons with disabilities (e.g.,
Seeing Eye dogs). Fish aquariums shall be allowed in waiting rooms and
nonprocedural areas.
      (17)   Smoking, eating, or drinking shall be strongly discouraged in
areas where body art is performed and shall not be routinely permitted, with
the exception of nonalcoholic fluids and soda crackers being offered to a
client during or after a body art procedure.
      (18)   There shall be adequate lighting available for all areas where any
modification is occurring.
      (19)   The Department shall have the discretion to issue a permit to a
body art establishment that is in operation at the time of the adoption of this
chapter even if that establishment fails to meet all of the minimum
requirements for physical facilities, so long as the establishment meets all
this chapter’s requirements for sanitation and sterilization and the
establishment’s physical facilities are otherwise configured and maintained in
a manner consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Requirements for single use items including inks, dyes and pigments:
      (1)   Single-use items shall not be used on more than one client for any
reason. After use, single-use sharps shall be immediately disposed of in
approved sharps containers.
      (2)   All products applied to the skin, such as but not limited to body
art stencils, applicators, and gauze and razors shall be single use and
disposable.
      (3)   Hollow bore needles, solid core needles or needles with cannula
shall not be reused.
      (4)   All inks, dyes, pigments, solid core needles, and equipment shall
be specifically manufactured for performing body art procedures and shall be
used according to manufacturer’s instructions.
      (5)   Inks, dyes or pigments may be mixed and may only be diluted with
water from an approved potable source. Immediately before a tattoo is applied,
the quantity of the dye to be used shall be transferred from the dye bottle and
placed into single-use paper cups or plastic cups. Upon completion of the
tattoo, these single-use cups or caps and their contents shall be discarded.
      (6)   Any tattooing products, such as dyes and needles, can only be sold
to a licensed body art practitioner or establishment.
   (C)   Sanitation and sterilization measures and procedures.
      (1)   All nondisposable instruments used for body art, including all
reusable solid core needles, pins, and stylets shall be cleaned thoroughly
after use by scrubbing with an appropriate soap or disinfectant solution and
hot water, (to remove blood and tissue residue), and shall be placed in an
ultrasonic unit sold for cleaning purposes under approval of the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration and operated in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions.
      (2)   After being cleaned, all nondisposable instruments used for body
art shall be packed individually in sterilizer packs and subsequently
sterilized in a steam autoclave sold for medical sterilization purposes under
approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. All sterilizer packs shall
contain either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature indicator.
Sterilizer packs must be dated within an expiration date not to exceed six
months.
      (3)   The autoclave shall be used, cleaned, and maintained according to
manufacturer’s instructions. A copy of the manufacturer’s recommended
procedures for the operation of the autoclave must be available for inspection
by the Department. Autoclaves shall be located away from workstations or areas
frequented by the public. Cleaning and log books are to be maintained and
available for inspection.
      (4)   Each holder of a permit to operate a body art establishment shall
demonstrate that the autoclave is capable of attaining sterilization by monthly
spore destruction tests. These tests shall be verified through an independent
laboratory. The permit shall not be issued or renewed until documentation of
the autoclave’s ability to destroy spores is received by the Department. These
test records shall be retained by the operator for a period of three years and
made available to the Department upon request.
      (5)   All instruments used for body art procedures shall remain stored in
sterile packages until just prior or the performance of a body art procedure.
After sterilization, the instruments used in body art procedures shall be
stored in a dry, clean cabinet or other tightly covered container reserved for
the storage of such instruments and are to be stored no less than 6" off the
floor.
      (6)   Sterile instruments may not be used if the package has been
breached or after the expiration date without first repackaging and
resterilizing those instruments.
      (7)   If the body art establishment uses only single-use, disposable
instruments and products, and uses sterile supplies, an autoclave shall not be
required.
      (8)   When assembling instruments used for body art procedures, the
operator shall wear disposable medical gloves and use medically recognized
sterile techniques to ensure that the instruments and gloves are not
contaminated.
      (9)   Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed with detergent
and mechanically dried after each use. The cloth items shall be stored in a
dry, clean environment until used. Should such items become contaminated
directly or indirectly with bodily fluids, the items shall be washed in
accordance with standards applicable to hospitals and medical care facilities,
at a temperature of 160° F with the use of chlorine disinfectant.
   (D)   Posting requirements. The following shall be prominently displayed:
      (1)   A disclosure statement, a model of which shall be available from
the Department. A disclosure statement shall be given to each client, advising
them of the risks and possible consequences of body art procedures.
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the Tippecanoe County Health
Department.
      (3)   An emergency plan, including:
         (a)   A plan for the purpose of contacting the police, fire or
emergency medical services in the event of an emergency.
         (b)   A telephone in good working order shall be easily available and
accessible to all employees and clients during all hours of operation; and
         (c)   A sign at or adjacent to the telephone indicating the correct
emergency telephone numbers.
      (4)   An occupancy and use permit as issued by the local building
official.
      (5)   A current establishment permit.
      (6)   Each practitioner’s permit.
      (7)   It is the responsibility of the operator of the body art
establishment to be in possession of most recent Department Ordinance
applicable to the establishment.
   (E)   Establishment recordkeeping. The establishment shall maintain the
following records in a secure place for a minimum of three years, and such
records shall be made available to the Department upon request:
      (1)   Establishment information, which shall include:
         (a)   Establishment name;
         (b)   Hours of operation;
         (c)   Owner’s name and address;
         (d)   A complete description of all body art procedures performed;
         (e)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps,
and all ink used for any and all body art procedures, including name of
manufacturers and serial or lot number, if applicable. Invoices or packing
slips shall satisfy this requirement;
         (f)   Copies of waste hauler manifests;
         (g)   Copies of commercial biological monitoring tests;
         (h)   Exposure or injury incident report (kept permanently);
         (i)   A copy of this chapter, as it may be updated;
         (j)   Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for all materials.
      (2)   Employee information, which shall include:
         (a)   Full legal names and exact duties;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Home address;
         (d)   Home/work phone numbers;
         (e)   Identification photograph;
         (f)   Dates of employment;
         (g)   Hepatitis B vaccination status of declination notification; and
         (h)   Training records.
      (3)   Client information shall be kept confidential at all times and
shall include the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the client;
         (b)   Age and valid photo identification of the client;
         (c)   Address of the procedure;
         (d)   Date of the procedure;
         (e)   Name of the practitioner who performed the procedure(s);
         (f)   Description of procedure(s) performed and the location on the
body;
         (g)   A signed consent form;
         (h)   If the client is a person under the age of 18, proof of parental
or guardian identification, presence and consent including a copy of the
photographic identification of the parent or guardian.
      (4)   Exposure control plan. Each establishment shall create, update, and
comply with an exposure control plan. The plan shall be submitted to the
Department for review so as to meet all of the requirements of OSHA
regulations, to include, but not be limited to, 29 Code of Federal Regulation
1910.1030 OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens Standards, et seq., as amended from time to
time. A copy of the plan shall be maintained at the body art establishment at
all times and shall be made available to the Department upon request.
   (F)   No person shall establish or operate a mobile or temporary body art
establishment.
   (G)   Mobile, temporary, and/or commercial operations of body art
establishments are prohibited in private homes and unlicensed facilities are
forbidden to operate and are subject to all applicable fines and legal
proceedings.
   (H)   The establishment shall require that all body art practitioners have
either completed or were offered and declined, in writing, the hepatitis B
vaccination series. Records documenting compliance with this requirement shall
be provided to the Department upon request.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.11 STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
   Practitioners are required to comply with the following minimum health
standards:
   (A)   A practitioner shall perform all body art procedures in accordance
with universal precautions set forth by the U.S. Center for Disease Control and
Prevention.
   (B)   A practitioner shall refuse service to any person who may be under the
influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (C)   Practitioners who use ear-piercing systems must conform to the
manufacturer’s directions for use, and to applicable U.S. Food and Drug
Administration requirements. No practitioner shall use an ear-piercing system
on any part of the client’s body other than the lobe of the ear.
   (D)   A client health history and client informed consent shall be obtained.
Prior to performing a body art procedure on a client, the practitioner shall:
      (1)   Inform the client, verbally and in writing that the following
health conditions may increase health risks associated with receiving a body
art procedure:
         (a)   History of diabetes;
         (b)   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
         (c)   History of skin disease, skin lesions, or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants and the like;
         (d)   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigment, dyes, or
other sensitivities;
         (e)   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting, or narcolepsy;
         (f)   Use of medications such as anticoagulants, which thin the blood
and/or interfere with blood clotting; and
         (g)   Other conditions such as hepatitis or HIV.
      (2)   Require that the client sign a form confirming that the above
information was provided, that the client does not have a condition that
prevents them from receiving body art, that the client consents to the
performance of the body art procedure and that the client has been given the
aftercare instructions as required by division (K) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   A practitioner shall maintain the highest degree of personal
cleanliness, conform to best standard hygienic practices, and wear clean
clothes when performing body art procedures, the practitioner must thoroughly
wash their hands in hot running water with liquid soap, then rinse hands and
dry with disposable paper towels. This shall be done as often as necessary to
remove contaminants.
      (2)   Masks, in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles
or glasses with solid side shield shall be worn when contamination from splash,
spray or droplets of blood can be reasonably anticipated. The owner of the body
art establishment shall provide said protection to all employees involved in
any at risk procedures.
   (F)   In performing body art procedures, a practitioner shall wear
disposable single-use gloves. Gloves shall be changed if they become pierced,
torn, or otherwise contaminated by contact with any unclean surfaces or objects
or by contact with a third person. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum,
after the completion of each procedure on an individual client, and hands shall
be washed in accordance with division (E) of this section before the next set
of gloves is put on. Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be
used on more than one person. The use of disposable single-use gloves does not
preclude or substitute for hand washing procedures as part of a good personal
hygiene program.
   (G)   The skin of the practitioner shall be free of rash or infection. No
practitioner affected with boils, infected wounds, open sores, abrasions,
weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory infection shall work in any
area of a body art establishment in any capacity in which there is a likelihood
that that person could contaminate body art equipment, supplies, or working
surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
   (H)   Any item or instrument used for body art that is contaminated during
the procedure shall be discarded and replaced immediately with a new disposable
item or new sterilized instrument or item before the procedure resumes. Any
items that cannot be sterilized such as cords shall be bagged to lower the
chance of contamination.
   (I)   Preparation and care of a client’s skin area must comply with the
following:
      (1)   Any skin area or mucosa surface to receive a body art procedure
shall be free of rash or any visible infection.
      (2)   Before a body art procedure is performed, the immediate skin area
and the areas of the skin surrounding where body art procedure is to be placed
shall be washed with soap and water or an approved surgical skin preparation.
If shaving is necessary, single-use disposable razors or safety razors with
single-use blades shall be used. Blades shall be discarded after each use, and
reusable holders shall be cleaned and autoclaved after each use. Following
shaving, the skin and surrounding area shall be washed with soap and water. The
washing pad shall be discarded after a single use.
      (3)   In the event of bleeding, all products used to stop the bleeding or
to absorb blood shall be single use, and discarded immediately after use in
appropriate covered containers, and disposed of in accordance with local, state
and federal regulations.
   (J)   Petroleum jellies, soaps, and other products used in the application
of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on the area to receive a body art
procedure with sterile gauze, paper towels or other sterile applicator to
prevent contamination of the original container and its content. The applicator
or gauze shall be used once and then discarded.
   (K)   The practitioner shall provide each client with verbal and written
instructions on the aftercare of the body art site. The written instructions
shall advise the client:
      (1)   On proper cleansing of the area which received the body art;
      (2)   To consult a health care provider for:
         (a)   Unexpected redness, tenderness or swelling at the site of the
body art procedure;
         (b)   Any rash;
         (c)   Unexpected drainage at or from the site of the body art
procedure; or
         (d)   A fever within 24 hours of the body art procedure; and
      (3)   Of the address, and phone number of the establishment. A copy of
aftercare instructions shall be provided to the client. A model set of
aftercare instructions shall be made available by the Department.
   (L)   Contaminated waste shall be stored, treated and disposed in accordance
with applicable local, state and federal guidelines. It is the responsibility
of the operator of the body art establishment to be in possession of the most
recent regulation for contaminated waste.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.12 EXPOSURE INCIDENT OR INJURY REPORT.
   (A)   An exposure incident or injury report shall be completed by the close
of the business day during which an exposure has or might have taken place or
an injury to a client has occurred. That report shall be completed by the
involved or knowledgeable body art practitioner for every exposure incident or
injury occurring during any body art activity.
   (B)   Each report shall contain:
      (1)   A copy of the application and consent form for body art activity
completed by any client or minor client involved in the exposure incident;
      (2)   A full description of the exposure incident, including the portion
of the body involved therein;
      (3)   Instrument(s) or other equipment implicated;
      (4)   A copy of the body art practitioner license of the involved art
practitioner;
      (5)   Date and time of exposure;
      (6)   A copy of any medical history pertaining to the effected client
released to the body art establishment or body art practitioner; and
      (7)   Information regarding any recommendation to refer to a physician or
waiver to consult a physician by persons involved; and
      (8)   The corrective action plan provided to the client.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.13 EXPOSURE INCIDENT OR INJURY REPORT FILING.
   The exposure incident or injury report shall be filed with the department no
later than 72 hours after the incident or on the next business day, whichever
is less, following the incident or injury.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.14 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The Department shall investigate complaints received about an
establishment or practitioner’s practices or acts which may violate any
applicable rule, law, regulation, and this chapter (all referred to as “this
chapter”).
   (B)   If the Department finds that further investigation is not required
because the alleged act or practice is not in violation of this chapter, then
the Department shall notify the complainant, establishment, and practitioner of
that finding and the reasons on which it is based.
   (C)   If the Department finds that an act or practice is in violation of
this chapter, then the Department shall apply whatever enforcement action is
appropriate to remedy the situation and shall notify the complainant,
establishment, and practitioner of its action.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.15 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION, DENIAL, REVOCATION, OR REFUSAL TO RENEW
PERMIT.
   (A)   The Department may suspend a permit, deny a permit, revoke a permit or
refuse to renew a permit for a practitioner and an establishment on the
following grounds, each of which, in and of itself, shall constitute full and
adequate grounds for suspension, denial, revocation or refusal to renew a
permit.
      (1)   Any actions which would put the health or safety of the public at
risk;
      (2)   Fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in obtaining a permit, or its
renewal;
      (3)   Criminal conduct, as evidenced by filing of criminal proceedings
and regardless if such charge has resulted in a conviction, and which conduct
the Department determines to be of such a nature as to render the
establishment, practitioner, or applicant unfit to practice body art;
      (4)   Any present or past violation of the Department’s regulations
governing the practice of body art;
      (5)   Practicing body art while the ability to practice safely and
competently is impaired for any reason.
      (6)   Knowingly permitting, aiding or abetting an unauthorized person to
perform activities requiring a permit.
      (7)   Continuing to practice while his/her permit is lapsed, suspended,
or revoked;
      (8)   Having been disciplined in another jurisdiction by the proper
permitting authority for reasons substantially the same as those prohibited by
this chapter; and
      (9)   Other just and sufficient cause which the Department may determine
would render the establishment, practitioner or applicant unfit to practice
body art.
   (B)   The Department shall notify an applicant, establishment or
practitioner in writing of any violation of this chapter, for which the
Department intends to suspend, deny, revoke, or refuse to renew a permit. The
applicant, establishment or practitioner shall have seven days after receipt of
such written notice in which to comply with this chapter or the Health
Officer’s Order. The Department may deny, revoke or refuse to renew a permit,
if the applicant, establishment or practitioner fails to comply with this
chapter or the Health Officer’s Order after said seven days.
   (C)   Applicants denied a permit may reapply at any time after denial.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.16 PROCEDURES WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)   At the time of an inspection any violation(s) discovered by the Health
Officer or Health Officer’s authorized representative shall be recorded on an
inspection report that is equivalent to the Indiana State Department of Health
inspection report.
   (B)   A copy of the inspection report stating any violation(s) and dates by
which violations must be corrected shall be given to the person-in-charge of
the establishment, or the report shall be delivered by mail to the address of
the establishment listed on the permit application.
   (C)   The Health Officer, or the Health Officer’s authorized representative,
shall have the final approval on all Establishment inspection reports and
related documents; and shall reserve the right to make changes as deemed
necessary.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.17 EMERGENCY CLOSURE.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Health Officer shall order an emergency closure
for an Establishment for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to possess a valid permit required by this chapter.
      (2)   The presence of any condition that poses an imminent health hazard
or substantial harm to the public health and safety.
   (B)   Procedure. Any closure order will be in writing. The order shall
identify the establishment, describe the specified grounds upon which closure
is based, direct the immediate closure of the establishment and vacating of the
premises by clients, list the corrective actions necessary to re-open the
establishment, and state that a hearing on the emergency closure may be
requested by the holder of the permit. The order shall be served in person on
the holder of the permit, or person in charge of the establishment.
   (C)   The Tippecanoe County Health Department may rescind any emergency
closure at any time with or without a hearing if it is determined that the
reason for the closure no longer exists.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.18 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Tippecanoe County Health Officer, after providing an opportunity
for a hearing shall permanently revoke an Establishment’s permit for serious or
repeat violation(s) of any of the requirements of any Indiana statutes and
regulations or this chapter; or, interference with the Health Officer or the
Health Officer’s agent(s) in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Prior to such action, the Health Officer shall provide written notice
to the holder of the permit. The notice shall state the reasons for permit
revocation and advise the permit holder (permittee) the permit shall be
permanently revoked after no less than ten days following service of such
notice, unless the permit holder files with the Health Department of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana a written request for a hearing. Any hearing request must be
filed prior to the date upon which the permit revocation is to become
effective. Consistent with the provisions for emergency closure, the permit may
be suspended for cause pending its revocation or a hearing.
   (C)   The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee by leaving or
mailing by certified mail the notice to the address listed on the permit
application as the permittee’s mailing address or such other address as the
permittee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer.
   (D)   If no request for a hearing is filed prior to the date the permit
revocation is to become effective, revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.19 PROCEDURE FOR HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section, shall be open
to the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the permittee to appear and participate in
the hearing.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Health Officer of the Health
Officer’s designate shall enter a final order, subject to the right of appeal
to a Court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter of the
appeal.
   (D)   To exercise the right of appeal, a party to the final order must file
a petition for relief from the order with the Circuit or a Superior Court of
Tippecanoe County no later than 60 days from the date the final order was
entered.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. For the first 90 days after the effective date of this chapter, the
Health Officer has discretion to waive enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter to allow time for body art establishments existing at the time of the
effective date this chapter to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Any
permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null and
void. A violation of an abatement order issued by the Health Officer pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 16-20-1-25, or a similar statute, shall be considered
to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.21 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any entity subject to the
provisions of this chapter is in willful violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty imposed by this
chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to
the Prosecuting Attorney of Tippecanoe County, Indiana or the attorney for the
Department who shall seek all appropriate legal remedies against the entity or
person(s) violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.22 PENALTIES.
   The Department has determined that one of the most efficient methods of
encouraging compliance with ordinances to protect the public health is to
assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of laws intended to suppress
disease and minimize health risks. For purposes of tracking violations and
imposing fines under this chapter the Department shall maintain inspection
records for not less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted
consistent with this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a violation is
noted within any one year period. For a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter within any one year period, a civil penalty is payable as provided in
this chapter.
   (A)   The following civil penalties (fine) shall apply for a violation of
this chapter which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one year
period:
      (1)   The second time the same violation is determined within any one
year period, there will be a fine of $100.00.
      (2)   The third (and subsequent) time the same violation is determined
within any one year period, there will be a fine of $200.00.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the
Tippecanoe County Health Department or the Health Officer of the County, shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
or renewed until all fines have been paid in full. Any fines and late fees may
be collected in any manner provided herein or as provided by law including any
law for collection of debts, along with attorney fees incurred to collect said
amounts owing and with all costs of collection.
   (D)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by this chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in this chapter. Any request for an appeal shall be filed
in writing with the Health Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil
penalty.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.23 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
any Superior Court of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, to restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation(s) to be
prevented, abated or removed, or to otherwise enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.24 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the Tippecanoe County Health Department for the expense, loss or damage
occasioned by reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s fees
and costs.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
§ 113.25 CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 2015-13-CM, passed 6-15-15)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Possession of deadly weapons in county buildings
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section DEADLY WEAPON is defined as follows:
      (1)   A loaded or unloaded firearm;
      (2)   A weapon, device, instrument, material, or substance, animate or
inanimate, that is used for, or is readily capable of, causing death or serious
bodily injury, except that such term does not include a pocket knife with a
blade of less than 2½ inches in length.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Judicial officers or law enforcement personnel on active duty; or
      (2)   The lawful possession of firearms or other deadly weapons by county
officers or employees or persons under contract with the county, for lawful
purposes connected with their office, employment or contract with the county.
   (C)   No person shall possess a deadly weapon in the County Courthouse or
the County Jail.
   (D)   The County Sheriff and all other law enforcement officers may detain
persons whom they have reason to believe possess such deadly weapons in
violation of this section long enough to obtain proper name, address, date of
birth, social security number, and to seize such deadly weapon.
   (E)   The County Sheriff and all other law enforcement officers may seize
any deadly weapon possessed in violation of this section. All seized deadly
weapons shall be held by the Sheriff’s Department until further order of the
court, after a hearing on the proper disposition of the weapon pursuant to I.C.
35-47-2-7, 35-47-3-2, 35-47-3-3 and 35-47-4-1.
(Ord. 2000-53-CM, passed 9-18-00; Am. Ord. 2011-17-CM, passed 7-5-11)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of
§ 130.01 shall be a fine not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2000-53-CM, passed 9-18-00)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   AIRPORT AREA HIGH STRUCTURE REGULATIONS
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151A.   BUILDING CODE FEES
         
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
153.   FLOOD PLAIN CONTROL REGULATIONS
         
154.   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES
         
155.   STORM DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
         
156.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
         
157.   ZONING
         
158.   THOROUGHFARE PLAN
         
159.   SUBDIVISION
         
160.   AREA PLAN COMMISSION FEES
         
161.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
         
162.   PROHIBITION OF QUARRIES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
CHAPTER 150: AIRPORT AREA HIGH STRUCTURE REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Building permit restrictions
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates construction of buildings near airports located
within the county.
(‘82 Code, § 4-64-1) (Ord. 77-32, passed 11-7-77)
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMIT RESTRICTIONS.
   No building permits to do the following will be issued by the Office of
Building Permits until a proper permit issued by the Aeronautics Commission of
Indiana is presented to such office showing permission for such construction:
   (A)   Erect, add to the height of or replace any structure, unless the
replacement only involves the repair, maintenance or restoration of a structure
in existence on August 31, 1977;
      (1)   Within 2,000 feet from the nearest airport boundary, that will
result in a structure extending higher than a height above the level of such
runway or landing strip determined by the ratio of 1 foot vertically to every
20 feet horizontally measured from the nearest boundary;
      (2)   At any other place within this state not otherwise covered in this
section which will result in a structure extending more than 500 feet above the
highest point of land within a one mile radius from the structure;
      (3)   At any other place within the state which will result in a
structure extending to a height of more than 100 feet above the level of the
runway or landing strip within a three and one-half nautical mile radius of the
geographical reference point of the airport;
      (4)   Within the established guidelines for airport approach zone or
zones as set forth in applicable Federal Air Regulations including but not
limited to Federal Air Regulations Part 77; or
      (5)   Where such structure would impose a restriction to or increase the
instrument minimum heights of an approach to any existing or proposed airport
as set forth in Federal Air Regulations Part 77 or as approved airport master
plan or airport layout plan;
   (B)   Erect a residential building or other building designed for noise
sensitive uses within an area lying 1,500 feet of either side of the extended
center line of a runway for a distance of one nautical mile from the boundaries
of any public use airport.
(‘82 Code, § 4-64-2) (Ord. 77-32, passed 11-7-77) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
151.06   Application for permits; digital data submission
   
151.07   Permit required; other ordinances
   
151.08   Compliance required; accepted standards
   
151.09   Review of application; inspections
   
151.10   Right of entry
   
151.11   Stop order
   
151.12   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.13   Violations
   
151.14   Right of appeal
   
151.15   Remedies
   
151.16   Building permit conflicts of interest
Bonding of Contractors
   
151.25   Bond required
   
151.26   Trades requiring bonding of contractors and subcontractors
   
151.27   Permits
   
151.28   Use of bond
   
151.29   Reinstatement and termination
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Building Code of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as "this subchapter".
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever in
the buildings regulations, it is provided that anything must be done to the
approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any
other officer of the Board of Commissioners, this shall be construed to give
such officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such provision shall
be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what such
regulation, codes, or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer
of a single agency to administer and enforce building regulations, shall be
authorized to issue building permits, collect fees, perform inspections, order
correction of violations of building regulations, and authorize occupancy of
buildings and structures situated within the unincorporated areas of the
county.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, demolition,
alterations, use, occupancy, and additions to all buildings and structures
other than fences, mobile structures, and/or industrialized buildings certified
under I.C. 22-15-4 in the county, except storage buildings of 120 square feet
or less and not constructed on a masonry or concrete foundation.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.05 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules Indiana Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of
the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this
subchapter and shall include later amendments to those Articles as the same are
published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with dates
as fixed therein:
   (A)   Article 13 - Building Code:
      (1)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
      (2)   Indiana Building Code;
      (3)   Indiana Building Code, Appendix C Group U (Agricultural Buildings).
   (B)   Article 14 Indiana Residential Code.
   (C)   Article 16 Indiana Plumbing Code.
   (D)   Article 17 Indiana Electrical Code.
   (E)   Article 18 Indiana Mechanical Code.
   (F)   Article 19 Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
   (G)   Article 20 Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (H)   Article 22 Indiana Fire Code.
   (I)   Article 24 Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code.
   (J)   Article 25 Indiana Fuel and Gas Code.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§151.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; DIGITAL DATA SUBMISSION.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by plans and specifications showing
the work to be done, and listing the area of each level of the building and of
the garage in square feet. All plans for building construction under the
authority of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the State of
Indiana must also be filed with the Office of the State Building Commissioner
if a state construction design release is required. No local permits shall be
issued hereunder until a copy of a construction design release from the State
Building Commission is received by the County Building Commissioner if such
construction design release is required.
   (A)   The uniform digital data submission standards for established pursuant
to §
31.124 are hereby adopted as the standards for the submission of data to the
office of the County Building Commission.
   (B)   All documents submitted to the County Building Commission which exceed
11" by 17" in overall size, shall also be submitted digitally in a format which
complies with the digital submission requirements set forth in §
31.124.
   (C)   The County Building Commission shall have 30 days from the date of the
submission to review and approve the digital data submission, otherwise the
submission shall be deemed acceptable.
   (D)   If the County Building Commission determines that the digital data
submission fails to meet the standards, the County Building Commission shall
notify the party submitting the digital data of the determination in writing
and the submitting party shall have 30 days from the date of the notification
to correct and resubmit the data.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05; Am. Ord. 2012-13-CM, passed 3-5-12)
§ 151.07 PERMIT REQUIRED; OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained before beginning
construction, demolition or alteration of any building or structure, using
forms furnished by the Building Commissioner. All permits shall be issued by
the Building Commissioner, and all fees provided for herein shall be paid to
the county.
      (1)   A building permit expires and becomes void if:
         (a)   The work authorized by the permit is not started within one year
from the date of issuance;
         (b)   The work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for
one year;
         (c)   The work authorized by the permit is not completed within two
years from the date of issuance.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may grant extensions to the time
limitations provided that the extension request is submitted prior to the
expiration date.
      (3)   All permits issued prior to September 1, 1999, shall expire and
become null and void 90 days after the effective date of this subchapter or
September 1, 2005, whichever is the later. The Building Commissioner may grant
extensions to these permits upon cause shown by the permit holder.
   (B)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit issued hereunder
shall be in full compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and in
addition to the fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid
the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
   (C)   Compliance with zoning ordinance. No building permit shall be issued
for the construction, extension, remodeling or alteration of any proposed or
existing building until the project has been checked forcompliance with the
Unified Zoning Ordinance of Tippecanoe County. Certain construction projects
may require a site plan for the project to be approved by the County Surveyor,
a driveway permit or letter to be issued by the County Highway Engineer, and/or
a septic permit or letter to be issued by the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05) Penalty, see
§ 151.99
§ 151.08 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; ACCEPTED STANDARDS.
   (A)   No final approval of construction for any building or structure
erected or altered after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless
such building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   All work on the construction, demolition or alteration of buildings
and other structures shall be performed according to the accepted standards and
procedures.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05) Penalty, see
§ 151.99 
§ 151.09 REVIEW OF APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (3)   An application for a permit becomes null and void if the applicant
does not secure the permit within 30 days after its approval.
   (B)   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under such permit as are necessary to insure full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 2005-07-CM, passed 2-07-05; Am. Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.11 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever work is being done contrary to the provisions of this subchapter,
the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing,
served on any person engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.12 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No final approval of construction for any building or structure erected or
altered after such adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected or altered in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.13 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, oroccupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use or occupy any building or
structure, other than fences, in the county or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05) Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.14 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's
decision first through the County Commissioners and then to the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 22-13-2-7 or I.C. 4-21.5-3-7, as applicable.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.15 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the County Commissioners,
bring actions in the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioners, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.16 BUILDING PERMIT CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of I.C. 36-
1-27-4 .
   (B)   As used in this section, “conflict of interest” means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit .
   (C)   As used in this section, “permit” has the meaning set forth in I.C.
36-7-4-1109(b).
   (D)   The Building Commissioner, a building code official, or building
inspector may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a
subordinate if the person has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   If a permit is requested or required that raises a conflict of
interest for the Deputy Building Commissioner, inspector, or other subordinate
of the Building Commissioner, the person shall report the conflict to the
Building Commissioner who shall either conduct the building permit process
directly or refer the matter to another subordinate who does not have a
conflict.
   (F)   If a permit is requested or required that raises a conflict of
interest for the Building Commissioner, the Commissioner shall report the
conflict to the President of the Board of Commissioners who shall appoint a
qualified temporary replacement Commissioner for the purpose of determining
whether the permit should issue and otherwise overseeing the permit process as
it pertains to the conflict.
   (G)   The code enforcement officials of the City of Lafayette and the City
of West Lafayette shall be regarded as qualified temporary replacements for
purposes of this section and shall be given consideration as potential
replacements if willing and able to serve.
(Ord. 2019-26-CM, passed 9-3-19)
BONDING OF CONTRACTORS
§ 151.25 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company not already under bond to the county, shall contract to
perform any of the trades listed in § 151.26 of this subchapter in or upon any
building in the county unless they shall first give bond to the Board of
Commissioners with one or more sureties, in the penal sum of $10,000 (each
trade), conditioned that they will in good faith perform all things required of
them under the provisions of the various ordinances and building codes then in
effect, and conditioned further that they will pay all damages and save the
county harmless on account of negligence, want of skill, or failure to comply
with the various building codes and county ordinances in the county. Such bond
must be submitted to and approved by the County Building Commissioner.
   (B)   No person, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company not already under bond to the county, shall do business as a
general contractor in the county, unless they shall first give bond to the
Board of Commissioners with one or more sureties, in the penal sum of $15,000,
conditioned further that they will pay all damages and save the county harmless
on account of negligence, want of skill or failure to comply with the various
building codes and county ordinances then in effect in the county. Such bond
must be submitted to and approved by the County Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05) Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.26 TRADES REQUIRING BONDING OF CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
   The following trades shall supply a compliance bond as described in §
151.25:
   (A)    Brick and block mason;
   (B)   Building demolition;
   (C)   Building movers;
   (D)   Carpentry;
   (E)   Concrete;
   (F)   Drywall, lathing and plastering;
   (G)   Electrical;
   (H)   Fire protection equipment installation;
   (I)   Glazing;
   (J)   Heating and air conditioning;
   (K)   Insulation;
   (L)   Plumbing;
   (M)   Painting;
   (N)   Roofing;
   (O)   Siding;
   (P)   Sign installation;
   (Q)   Structural iron;
   (R)   Swimming pool installation;
   (S)   Any other construction trade.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.27 PERMITS.
   No permit to perform the trades listed in § 151.26 of this section shall be
issued unless a compliance bond is on file with the County Building Commission.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.28 USE OF BOND.
   (A)   Should the county be required to expend its funds in enforcing its
ordinances pertaining to a permit against any contractor or sub-contractor
whose compliance bond it holds, the county may seek reimbursement against that
bond for its cost of enforcement.
   (B)   Should the county be required to expend its funds to repair damages
caused by non-compliance with its ordinances pertaining to a permit against any
contractor or sub-contractor whose compliance bond it holds, the county may
seek reimbursement against the bond.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.29 REINSTATEMENT AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   Compliance bonds shall be maintained in the full amount required by
this subchapter. If the bond, or a portion of it is used to reimburse the
county for costs of enforcement or compliance, the contractor or sub-contractor
must replenish the bond in the full amount and maintain it on an annual basis.
   (B)   No bond shall be terminated without written notice to the county 30
days before the termination date.
(Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§ 151.01 through 151.17 or shall do an act prohibited therein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Building Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of
those sections, for each violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or
corporation shall be fined in the sum of $100. Each day of such unlawful
activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§ 151.25 through 151.29 shall be
subject to the provisions of § 10.99.
(Ord. 2005-07-CM, passed 2-07-05; Am. Ord. 2005-14-CM, passed 5-16-05)
CHAPTER 151A:
BUILDING CODE FEES
Section
   
151A.01   Title
   
151A.02   Purpose
   
151A.03   Application
   
151A.04   Fees
§ 151A.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory, shall be known
as the Building Code of Tippecanoe County, Indiana Fee Schedule, may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 2005-13-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151A.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a schedule of fees to provide
for the enforcement of the Building Code of Tippecanoe County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2005-13-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151A.03 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to do work for which a permit is required by the
Building Code of Tippecanoe County, Indiana, (Tippecanoe County Code
Chapter 151), shall make written application with the Tippecanoe County
Building Commissioner in accordance with Tippecanoe County Code §
151.07.
(Ord. 2005-13-CM, passed 5-16-05)
§ 151A.04 FEES.
   The following fees shall be assessed for permits and inspections required by
the Building Code of Tippecanoe County, Indiana and the Tippecanoe County Wind
Energy Conversion System Ordinance:
   (A)   Building permit fees for one-family and two-family dwelling, attached
garage, finished basements, room additions and remodeling thereof, are based on
the square footage of the buildings with the exterior measurements used in
determining the building area. The fee is $0.17 per square foot, The minimum
fee is $50.
   (B)   Building permit fees for detached garages, agricultural buildings,
pole barns, yard barns over 120 square feet, swimming pools, grain bins, decks,
and other miscellaneous structures, are based on square footage with the
exterior measurements used in determining the building area. The fee is $0.14
per square foot. The minimum fee is $50.
   (C)   Building permit fees for Class One structures, as defined by I.C. 22-
12-1-4, are $0.24 per square foot or $50, whichever greater.
   (D)   Electrical permit fees are $40 for electrical services for mobile
homes and manufactured homes and manufactured housing within mobile home parks.
Electrical permit fees for all other electrical services, up to and including
200 amperes, are $75. The fee for electrical services over 200 amperes through
400 amperes is $150. The fee for electrical services over 1,000 amperes is
$250.
   (E)   Demolition permit fees are $75.
   (F)   Land fill permit fees are $150.
   (G)   A reinspection fee of $50 will be charged for the third and subsequent
inspections on a project for the same violations. Reinspection fees must be
paid before subsequent inspections will be made, If the inspections are on an
electrical service, the fee shall be paid before the service will be approved
for connection.
   (H)   If construction is staffed without first obtaining a building permit,
a surcharge equal to 50% of the permit fee may be assessed, Construction is
deemed started when the first building element is put in place.
   (I)   Wind energy conversion system (WECS) applicants shall pay all costs
associated with the review and processing of applications for WECS LP building
permits and WECS operating permits by the county, including without limitation
the Board of Commissioners, Building Commissioner, Economic Development
Commission, Surveyor and Area Plan Commission. Applicants shall submit a
minimum application fee with the application in the amount set forth in the
following fee schedule. Applications for aggregated WECS projects will be
assessed separate application fees for each construction phase within a single
project. If the costs of reviewing and processing the application exceed the
minimum fees set forth below, the Building Commissioner shall notify the
applicant of the amount of such additional costs and the amount thereof shall
be promptly paid by the applicant.
WECS ILP Building Permit
Application Fee Deposits
 
Commercial WECS towers     $2,500 plus $200 per tower
Non-commercial WECS towers $2,500 plus $200 per tower
Micro WECS towers          $100
Meteorological towers      $500 per tower
 
WECS Operating Permit Fees
 
Commercial WECS towers     $1,250 plus $100 per tower
Non-commercial WECS towers $1 ,250 plus $100 per tower
Micro WECS towers          $50
Meteorological towers      $100
 
   (J)   The fee for a transient rental permit (as provided for under section
4-11-13(b) of the Unified Zoning Ordinance) shall be $100 per location. A
change in ownership for the location shall require a new permit and fee.
(Ord. 2010-03-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2019-08-CM, passed 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Thoroughfare Plan, see
Chapter 158
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   This section adopts the elements of the Comprehensive Plan for the
county.
(‘82 Code, § 6-103-1)
   (B)   The following elements of the Comprehensive Plan are hereby
incorporated by reference and made part of this code:
      (1)   The Introduction;
      (2)   The Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan;
      (3)   The Housing Element;
      (4)   The Transportation Plan (known as the Greater Lafayette Area
Transportation and Development Study);
      (5)   The Thoroughfare Plan;
      (6)   The Land Use Potentials Study Technical Manual;
      (7)   The Land Use Plan;
      (8)   The Transportation Plan for 2030;
      (9)   The 2045 Metropolitan Transportation Plan; and
      (10)   The Bike Walk Greater Lafayette Safety Plan.
      (11)   The 2022 Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan.
      (12)   The Stockwell Land Use Plan.
   (C)    Whereas this plan has been approved by the Tippecanoe County Area
Planning Commission and all procedural requirements have been met the Board of
Commissioners does hereby adopt all elements of said plan.
(‘82 Code, § 6-103-2) (Ord. 81-15, passed 10-19-81; Am. Res. 87-14-CM, passed
5-18-87; Am. Res. 87-17-CM, passed 11-2-87; Am. Res. 91-18-CL, passed 9-10-91;
Am. Res. 96-13-CM, passed 11-11-96; Am. Res. 2005-12-CM, passed 3- 7-05; Am.
Res. 2007-12-CM, passed 7-2-07; Am. Res. 2011-21-CM, passed 8-1-11; Am. Res.
2012-16-CM, passed 7-2-12; Am. Res. 2017-20-CM, passed 8-7-17; Am. Res. 2018-3-
CM, passed 1-2-18; Am. Res. 2022-23, passed 7-5-22; Am. Res. 2022-36-CM, passed
10- 3-22; Am. Res. 2023-04-CM, passed 3-6-23)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD PLAIN CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Responsibility and authority
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Flood hazard boundary map
   
153.04   Permit requirements
   
153.05   Application; review of applications
   
153.06   Water and sewage systems
   
153.07   Base flood elevation data
   
153.08   Watercourse relocation/alteration
   
153.09   Mobile homes
§ 153.01 RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This section enables the regulation of land use and control measures
to reduce future flooding losses in flood plain and flood hazard areas in the
county.
(‘82 Code, § 6-102-1)
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby assures the Federal Insurance
Administration that it will enact as necessary, and maintain in force for those
areas having flood or mudslide hazards, adequate land use and control measures
with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set forth in
Section 1910 of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations; and
   (C)   The County Area Plan Commission and its Building Code Section are
vested with the responsibility, authority, and means to:
      (1)   Delineate or assist the administrator, at his request, in
delineating the limits of the areas having special flood (and/or mudslide)
hazards on available local maps of sufficient scale to identify the location of
building sites;
      (2)   Provide such information as the Administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the flood plain (and/or mudslide
area);
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify flood plain or mudslide
areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to management of
adjoining flood plain and/or mudslide areas in order to prevent aggravation of
existing hazards;
      (4)   Submit on the anniversary date of the community’s initial
eligibility an annual report to the Administrator on the progress made during
the past year within the community in the development and implementation of
flood plain (and/or mudslide area) management measures.
   (D)   The County Building Inspection Department and County Area Plan
Commission shall maintain for public inspection, and furnish upon request, a
record of elevations (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures located in
the special flood hazard areas. If the lowest floor is below grade on one or
more sides, the elevation of the floor immediately above must also be recorded.
(‘82 Code, § 6-102-2) (Ord. - -, passed 11-13-75)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of “flood”).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers. The term includes but it is
not limited to, the definition of MOBILE HOME as set forth in the regulations
governing the Mobile Home Safety and Construction Standards Program (24 CFR
3282.7(a)).
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   STRUCTURE. For flood plain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if
the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either (1) any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions or (2) any alteration of
a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain
management regulation.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-3) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.03 FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP.
   The Flood Hazard Boundary Map issued by the Federal Insurance Administration
for this community, dated with Panel Numbers, and any officially published
revisions to this map, is adopted as the official map for the enforcement of
this document. Zone A on this map delineates the area within which the
requirements of this document will be enforced.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-10) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move, or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate
permit for each building or structure from the designated responsible person.
   (B)   No man-made changes to improved or unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be commenced until a
separate permit has been obtained from the designated responsible person for
each change.
   (C)   No mobile home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real estate
without first obtaining a separate permit for each mobile home from the
designated responsible person.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-2) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.05 APPLICATION; REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit
application on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed
and submitted to the designated responsible person before the issuance of a
permit will be considered.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-4)
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners referred to as the responsible person, is
appointed as the person responsible for receiving applications and examining
the plans and specifications for the proposed construction or development.
After reviewing the application, the responsible person shall require any
additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this document.
   (C)   The responsible person shall review proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
   (D)   The responsible person shall review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a proposed building site is in a floodprone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and mobile homes) shall: (1) be designed (or modified)
and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of
the structure, (2) be constructed with materials and utility equipment
resistant to flood damage and (3) be constructed by methods and practices that
minimize flood damage.
   (E)   The responsible person shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably
safe from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development
is in a flood-prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that
all such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage within
the flood-prone area; all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-5) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.06 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The responsible person shall require within flood-prone areas new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   (B)   The responsible person shall require within flood-prone areas new and
replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems
into flood waters and on-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-6) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.07 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA.
   (A)   The responsible person shall require that all subdivision proposals
and other proposed new developments greater than 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is the lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation
data.
   (B)   The responsible person shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state, or other source,
until such other data has been provided by the Administrator, as criteria for
requiring that all new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood level and all new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
or floodproofed to or above the base flood level.
   (C)   For the purpose of the determination of applicable flood insurance
risk premium rates within Zone A on a community’s FHBM, the responsible person
shall obtain, or require the applicant to furnish, the elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all
new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not such structures
contain a basement, obtain, or require the applicant to furnish, if the
structure has been floodproofed, the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the structure was floodproofed, and maintain a record of all such
information.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-7) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.08 WATERCOURSE RELOCATION/ALTERATION.
   (A)   The responsible person shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent
communities and the State Coordinating Office prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such notifications to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   (B)   The responsible person shall assure that the flood carrying capacity
within the altered relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-8) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
§ 153.09 MOBILE HOMES.
   The responsible person shall require that all mobile homes to be placed
within Zone A on the community’s flood hazard boundary map shall be anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-the-top and
frame ties to ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be that over-the-top
ties be provided at each of the four corners of the mobile home, with two
additional ties per side at intermediate locations and mobile homes less than
50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side; frame ties be provided at
each corner of the home with five additional ties per side at intermediate
points and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties
per side; all components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a force
of 4,800 pounds; and any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
(‘82 Code, § 4-65-9) (Ord. 78-20, passed 7-24-78)
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Rules and regulations
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes standards that govern the construction, alteration,
placement and repair of manufactured (factory built) building units including
modular housing and mobile homes in the county.
(‘82 Code, § 4-63-1) (Ord. 76-13, passed 6-7-76)
§ 154.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations are hereby established, adopted
and approved and shall govern the construction, alteration, placement and
repair of manufactured (factory built) building units including modular housing
and mobile homes in the county:
      (1)   Revised Official Rule: ACB 1-IBD, Standard Rules and Regulations
for Application, Certification and Inspection of Manufactured (factory built)
Building Units, Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Components, Volume A.
      (2)   New Official Rule: ACB 2-IBD, Required Rules and Regulations for
‘Reciprocity’ Between States for Certification and Inspection of Manufactured
(factory built) Building Units, Mobile Homes and for Mobile Home Components,”
Volume B.
      (3)   Revised Official Rule: ACB 3-IBD, Rules and Regulations for the
Inspection and Certification of Manufactured (Factory Built) Mobile Home
Dealers,” Volume C.
      (4)   Revised Official Rule: ACB 4-IBD, Standard, Rules and Regulations
for Application, Certification and Inspection of Manufactured (factory built)
Building Units including; Modular Housing, Modular Buildings, Modular Panels,
and all other Closed Units, Volume D.
      (5)   Revised Official Rule: ACB 5-IBD, Required Rules and Regulations
for the ‘Reciprocity’ between States for Certification and Inspection of
Manufactured (factory built) Building Units including Modular Housing, Modular
Buildings, Modular Panels, and all other Closed Units,” Volume E.
   (B)   Indiana State Board of Health HSE 21R hereby is adopted and approved
and shall govern mobile home parks located in the county.
   (C)   All mobile homes located in the county shall have tie-downs with
provisions for distributing the load of these tie-downs and such tie-downs
shall be attached to ground anchors so as to resist wind over- turning and
sliding. Each tie-down shall be designed to resist an allowable working load
equal to or exceeding 3,150 pounds and shall be capable of withstanding a 50%
overload without failure. Such tie-downs shall be placed not more than 24 feet
apart on centers beginning from the front wall (first stud or first cross
member). The rear tie-down shall be no more than six feet front the rear end of
the mobile home. Diagonal ties between the ground anchor and the mobile home
shall be made in conjunction with each vertical tie-down. Tie-downs exposed to
weathering shall be resistant to weathering deterioration at least equivalent
to that provided by a coating of zinc on steel of not less than .30 ounces per
square foot of surface coated.
(‘82 Code, § 4-63-2) (Ord. 76-13, passed 6-7-76)
CHAPTER 155: STORM DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
Storm Drainage and Sediment Control Ordinance
   
155.01   Storm drainage and sediment control ordinance and stormwater technical
standards manual adopted by reference
Drainage Board
   
155.10   Establishment
   
155.11   Definitions
   
155.12   Composition; members
   
155.13   Officers; meetings; actions
   
155.14   Power to sue
   
155.15   Conflicts of interest
   
155.16   Jurisdiction over regulated drains
   
155.17   Private and mutual drains exempt from chapter
   
155.18   Uniform fee schedule
STORM DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE
§ 155.01 STORM DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE AND STORMWATER TECHNICAL
STANDARDS MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Stormwater Management Ordinance of Tippecanoe County and
the Tippecanoe County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual as adopted by the
Board of Commissioners of Tippecanoe pursuant to Ord. 2023-02-CM, passed
February 6, 2023, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code
the same as if set forth in full herein. The ordinance in its entirety is on
file in the Office of the Tippecanoe County Surveyor and two copies of the
material are on file in the office of the Tippecanoe County Auditor for public
inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 88-40-CM, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. 89-37-CM, passed 11-1-89; Am. Ord. 90-
12-CM, passed 5-7-90; Am. Ord. 92-18-CM, passed 9-8-92; Am. Ord. 93-18-CM,
passed 2-22-94; Am. Ord. 94-53-CM, passed 12-19-94; Am. Ord. 94-54-CM, passed
12-19-94; Am. Ord. 2001-18-CM, passed 6-18-01; Am. Ord. 2002-24-CM, passed 8-5-
02; Am. Ord. 2005-04- CM, passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. 2011-27-CM, passed 12-5-11;
Am. Ord. 2017-04-CM, passed 5-1-17; Am. Ord. 2023-02-CM, passed 2-6-23)
Cross-reference:
   County Drainage Board Engineering Fee Fund, see §
34.61
DRAINAGE BOARD
§ 155.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established a drainage board, which shall act in the name of “The
Tippecanoe County Drainage Board.”
(I.C. 36-9-27-4) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 155.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED LAND. Land within a watershed that is affected by the construction,
reconstruction, or maintenance of a regulated drain.
   BOARD. The Drainage Board of the county.
   CROSSING. A drainage structure that passes over, under, or through a
location used for the passage of people, livestock, or vehicles.
   MUTUAL DRAIN. A drain that:
      (l)   Is located on two or more tracts of land that are under different
ownership;
      (2)   Was established by the mutual consent of all the owners; and
      (3)   Was not established under or made subject to any drainage statute.
   OPEN DRAIN. A natural or artificial open channel that:
      (1)   Carries surplus water; and
      (2)   Was established under or made subject to any drainage statute.
   OWNER. The owner of any interest in land.
   PRIVATE DRAIN. A drain that:
      (1)   Is located on land owned by one person or by two or more persons
jointly; and
      (2)   Was not established under or made subject to any drainage statute.
   REGULATED DRAIN. An open drain, a tiled drain, or a combination of the two.
   RURAL DRAIN. A regulated drain that provides adequate drainage for rural
land.
   RURAL LAND. Affected land that:
      (1)   Will not appreciably benefit from more drainage than is necessary
to expediently remove water after frequent or periodic flooding; and
      (2)   Is generally used for crop production, pasture, forest, or similar
purposes.
   TILED DRAIN. A tiled channel that:
      (1)   Carries surplus water; and
      (2)   Was established under or made subject to any drainage statute.
   URBAN LAND. Affected land that:
      (1)   Will appreciably benefit from drainage that will provide the
maximum practicable protection against flooding; and
      (2)   Is used or will in the reasonably foreseeable future be used
generally for commercial, industrial, large estate, higher density residential,
or similar purposes.
   WATERSHED. An area of land from which all runoff water drains to a given
point.
(‘82 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 155.12 COMPOSITION; MEMBERS.
   (A)   The County Drainage Board consists of the County Executive.
(I.C. 36-9-27-5) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-3)
   (B)   When the membership of the County Drainage Board is reduced to less
than three because of disqualifications, the Board shall immediately certify
that fact to the Circuit Court of the county. The Court shall then restore the
membership of the Board to three by appointing the appropriate number of
resident freeholders of the county to serve as special members for the
particular drainage proceedings.
   (C)   A special member of the Board has the same duties and powers as a
regular member of the board, and is entitled to a per diem, to be paid as an
expense of the Board, in an amount not to exceed the sum of $35 for each day or
major part of a day spent in actual attendance at any meeting of the Board or
in the performance of official business of the Board.
(I.C. 36-9-27-6) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 155.13 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; ACTIONS.
   (A)   The Drainage Board shall organize at a meeting each January, by
electing one of its members as chair and one of its members as vice chair. At
the same time, the Board shall elect a secretary, who need not be a member of
the Board.
   (B)   The County Surveyor may not hold an office on the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall meet the first Wednesday of each month at 10:00 a.m.
in the Tippecanoe Room, County Office Building.
   (D)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the chair, any two
members, or the County Surveyor, by mailing a written notice setting forth the
time, date, and place of the meeting to each member not less than five days
before the date of the meeting. A member may waive the mailing of notice of a
special meeting by filing a written waiver with the secretary or by the
member’s presence at the meeting.
   (E)   Meetings of the Board may be adjourned from day to day or to a day
certain without written notice being given.
   (F)   All meetings of the Board must be open to the public, and the minutes
of the meetings are open to public inspection.
   (G)   A majority of the voting members of the Board constitutes a quorum,
and the concurrence of a majority of the voting members present at a meeting is
necessary to authorize any action under this chapter.
(I.C. 36-9-27-7) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 155.14 POWER TO SUE.
   The Board may bring civil actions in its own name to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter. (I.C. 36-9-27-8) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 155.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Whenever it appears, in any proceeding for the construction, reconstruction,
or maintenance of a regulated drain, that a member of the Drainage Board has an
interest in the proceedings because of the member’s ownership of real property
affected by the drain, that member shall immediately disqualify himself or
herself from serving on the Board in those proceedings. However, the fact that
county highways will be affected by any proceedings does not disqualify a
regular member of the Board.
(I.C. 36-9-27-12) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 155.16 JURISDICTION OVER REGULATED DRAINS.
   Each regulated drain in a county is under the jurisdiction of the Drainage
Board and subject to this chapter, except as otherwise provided by this
chapter. (I.C. 36-9-27-15) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-8)
§ 155.17 PRIVATE AND MUTUAL DRAINS EXEMPT FROM CHAPTER.
   Private and mutual drains are not subject to this chapter. However, land
drained by a private or mutual drain is subject to assessment for the
construction, or reconstruction, or maintenance of a regulated drain if the
land is also drained by the regulated drain.
(I.C. 36-9-27-16) (‘82 Code, § 1-5-9)
§ 155.18 UNIFORM FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Stormwater management permits.
      (1)   The fees for review of drainage submittals, preliminary plans, and/
or construction plans and accompanying information and data in accordance with
the Tippecanoe County Stormwater Management Ordinance ("Stormwater Ordinance"),
adopted by reference in §
155.01 shall be as follows:
PHASE II BASE PERMIT FEES
Acreage Residential Commercial Industrial
PHASE II BASE PERMIT FEES
Acreage                  Residential       Commercial        Industrial
0 up to less than ½     $150              $250              $250
Equal to or greater than $200              $300              $300
1/2 up to less than 1
Equal to or greater than $350              $500+$40 per acre $500+$40 per acre
1 up to less than 3
Equal to or greater than $500              $750+$40 per acre $750+$40 per acre
3 up to less than 5
Equal to or greater than $500+$20 per acre $750+$40 per acre $750+$40 per acre
5
Utility work annual certification processing fee             $50
The Phase II base permit fees set forth shall include three on-site
inspections, administrative fees, and three annual post-construction
inspections. The foregoing fees shall be charged for each phase of multi-
phased projects.
 
      (2)   The following fees shall be charged for services required in
addition to those included in the foregoing Phase II  base fees:
 
ADDITIONAL PERMIT FEES
                                   During the construction process
Additional inspections             resulting from inadequate site  $50 each
                                   conditions or additional post-
                                   construction inspections
Grading plan revisions and amended For each additional revision or $25 each
notices of intent                  amended notice
 
      (3)   The following drainage review base fees for stormwater application
permits shall be charged for services required in addition to those set forth
in divisions (1) and (2) of this section:
DRAINAGE REVIEW BASE FEES
DRAINAGE REVIEW BASE FEES
(a)   Major Subdivision
   0 to less than 8  $3,500
acres
   8 to less than 20 $4,500
acres
   20+ acres         $6,000 + $50/additional acre
(b)   Minor subdivision or parcelizations that require detention storage per
the Stormwater Ordinance will follow the same base fees as major subdivisions.
If no detention storage is required, the project will be reviewed in house (No
review fee but Phase II fees may still apply).
(c)   Planned Developments
   0 to less than 8  $4,200
acres
   8 to less than 20 $5,500
acres
   20+ acres         $7,000 + $50/additional acre
(d)   Rural Estates
   0 to less than 2  $3,000
acres
   8 to less than 20 $4,000
acres
   20+ acres         $5,500 + $50/additional acre
(e)   Commercial and Industrial Sites
   0 to less than 2  $3,000
acres
   2 to less than 10 $4,200
acres
   10+ acres         $5,000 + $100/additional acre
(f)   One single family residence (constructed on ten or more acres of land) -
Outbuildings, swimming pools, etc. will be reviewed in-house (no review fee
but Phase II may still apply).
Note A:   Drainage Review Base Fee covers the cost up to three reviews and
associated review memos (typical for most projects).
Note B:   If needed there will be a $750 charge for each additional review
above the three typically covered in the drainage review base fee.
Note C:   All private non-linear utility projects shall follow same base fees
as commercial and industrial sites, i.e., Electric Substations, Wastewater
Plants, Drinking Water Facilities, other like or similar projects, etc.
Note D:   If a project is located within a privately master-planned site/
campus previously approved by the Tippecanoe County Drainage Board, there will
be a flat $1,000 fixed review fee.
Note E:   Any site that has been previously approved by the Tippecanoe County
Drainage Board and is being submitted again because changes have been made to
the previously-approved design will be charged a flat $1,500 fee.
Note F:   If a site is located within a Drainage Impact Area Watershed per
resolution, there will be an additional $5,000 fee added to the review cost.
Note G:   All public facilities such as libraries, fire stations, schools,
public waste water treatment facilities, etc., will be charged a flat fee of
$1,500.
Note H:   All linear utility projects will be charged as follows:
   a.   0 to less than 1 mile         $1,000
   b.   1 to less than 5 miles         $2,000
   c.   5+ miles            $3,500 + $50/additional mile
Note I:   All transportation roads will be charged as follows:
   a.   0 to less than 1 mile         $2,000
   b.   1 to greater than 5 miles      $2,500
   c.   5+ miles            $4,500 + $50/additional mile
Note J:   All projects requesting preliminary approval by the Tippecanoe
County Drainage Board will pay a flat fee of $1,200. When the project is re-
submitted for final approval the above base fees will be required at that
time.
Note K:   When the Tippecanoe County Drainage Board is only approving
discharge into a county-regulated drain because project is located inside city
limits, a flat fee will be charged as follows:
   a.   0 to less than 8 acres         $1,000
   b.   8 to less than 20 acres         $1,250
   c.   20+ acres            $1,500 + $50/additional acre
Note L:   All projects located within F-Lake, J. Berlowitz or A. Ross
watersheds will be charged $15,000 per acre foot of storage needed in the
Regional Detention Ponds.
In the event of a conflict between the fees listed in this division (3) and
any provision of the Stormwater Ordinance or Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, the fees listed herein shall govern.
 
      (B)   Outlets.
      (1)   The County Surveyor's Office shall charge the following application
fees to any person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity filing an
application to discharge private or mutual drains into a regulated drain under
the jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board:
 
 
Direct Outlets
   Individual residences                      $75
   Subdivision, multi-family, or commercial us$150
Indirect Outlets
   Subdivision, multi-family, or commercial us$150
These rates shall be charged for both permanent outlets and temporary outlets.
 
      (2)   No fee shall be required for those discharges to be made indirectly
to a regulated drain for individual residential lots and agricultural drains.
However, any such indirect discharge within the drainage shed of a regulated
drain shall be required to file an application.
   (C)   Crossings.  The County Surveyor's Office shall charge the following
application fees to any person, partnership, corporation, or association who
applies for authority to cross under, over, or through a regulated drain, with
any structure of improvement.
      (1)   Individual residences               $75
      (2)   Subdivisions, multi-family, or commercial uses      $150
      (3)   These rates shall be charged for both permanent crossings and
temporary crossings.
   (D)   Encroachments.
      (1)   The County Surveyor's Office shall charge the following application
fees to any person, partnership, corporation, or association filing an
application for an Encroachment Agreement pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27-33:
   Subdivision: Per each secondary plat            $100
   Individual: agricultural and single unit residential      $75
   Commercial, multi-family, and business            $100
   Utility:
      Underground construction, grading, trenching or
      excavation parallel to the drain for up to 400 feet
      of continuous construction:               $100
      For each 400 feet or part thereof of continuous
      construction parallel to the drain thereafter      $70
      (2)   In addition to the above fees for each type of request there shall
be collected an additional fee equal to the amount charged by the County
Recorder for recording the Encroachment Agreement.
   (E)   Fill permit fees.  The fee for individual fill permit reviews shall be
$30.
   (F)   Building permit reviews.  The fee for individual building permit
reviews shall be $30.
   (G)   Individual site plan reviews. The fee for review of each individual
site plan for sites disturbing one acre or more, or for individual site plan
reviews authorized by the Drainage Board shall be $100.
   (H)   Obstruction petitions. The filing fee for obstruction petitions filed
in accordance with I.C. 36-9-27.4 shall be $150.
   (I)   Alcoholic beverage verification permits. The fee for certification of
alcoholic beverage permit locations shall be $100.
   (J)   General provisions.
      (1)   All filing fees are non-refundable. All monies shall be payable to
the Tippecanoe County Treasurer. The County Surveyor’s Office shall maintain
records of the fees collected hereunder on forms prescribed by the State Board
of Accounts. The fees collected hereunder for outlets, crossings and
encroachments shall be deposited in the maintenance fund, if any, for the
regulated drain affected thereby, and if none, to the General Drain Improvement
Fund. The fees collected for obstruction petitions shall be deposited in the
County General Fund. All other fees collected hereunder shall be deposited in
the Phase II Stormwater Fund established pursuant to Resolution 2005-19-CM. No
fee shall be required to be paid by any unit of the county for construction,
maintenance, or remodeling of any public facility.
      (2)   The fees for outlets and crossings include application review,
initial inspection, and one re-inspection. The fee for each additional re-
inspection shall be equal to two times the initial application fee. After the
third re-inspection, the County Surveyor shall order the work necessary for
compliance to be done in accordance with Indiana Code 36-9-27-46 and 36-9-27-
47.
      (3)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a civil infraction and be subject to the Enforcement
Provisions of the Comprehensive Stormwater Management Ordinance, which
provisions are incorporated herein by reference, and include fines of not less
than $500 for a first offense, and not less than $1,000 for each subsequent
offense, plus damages, expenses, costs and attorney fees.
(Ord. 2005-51-CMBD, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 2011-01-CMDB, passed 1-18-11; Am.
Ord. 2018-11-CM, passed 4-2-18; Am. Ord. 2019-29-CM, passed 11-18-19)
CHAPTER 156: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
156.01   State law incorporated
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Unsafe buildings declared public nuisance
   
156.04   Work to meet accepted standards
   
156.05   Unsafe Building Fund
   
156.06   Administration and enforcement
   
156.07   Violations
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 STATE LAW INCORPORATED.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
Tippecanoe County Unsafe Building Ordinance.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in
the County Unsafe Building Ordinance. All proceedings within the unincorporated
areas of the county for the inspection, repair, and removal of unsafe buildings
shall be governed by the applicable state law and the provisions of this
chapter. In the event the provisions of this chapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state
statute shall control.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the county, by adding the following definition:
   UNSAFE BUILDING means any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the
public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one- half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one- third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non- supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
of committing unlawful acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or of any law or ordinance of the state or the county relating
to the condition, location, or structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Health Office (health official)
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the appropriate fire
official and/or State Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard;
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public;
      (18)   Not withstanding the foregoing a building may be inventoried for a
period of 12 months upon a permit issued by the Building Commissioner, after
submission by the applicant of a plan for securing said property, as well as, a
plan for rehabilitation and/or removal of said property.
   (B)   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-
7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.03 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the unincorporated areas of the
county which are determined after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be
unsafe as defined in this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.04 WORK TO MEET ACCEPTED STANDARDS.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair, or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the
building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this chapter or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.05 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
county in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner, as Chief Administrative Officer,
shall be authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of the
applicable state law in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found
to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified hereafter.
   (B)   Wherever in the building regulations of the State of Indiana, County
of Tippecanoe or the Tippecanoe Unsafe Building Ordinance, it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the
Building Commissioner, or any other officer of the county, this shall be
construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining whether the
rules and standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no
such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers
as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions
no prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary
or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.07 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28
shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
   (B)   Any and all costs incurred to enforce or implement the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a lien on the subject real estate, in favor of
the county.
(Ord. 94-23-CM, passed 7-25-94)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
Zoning
   
157.01   Adopted by reference
Monuments
   
157.10   Section corner markers
§ 157.01 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Zoning Ordinance enacted by the County Commissioners and the
Common Councils of the Cities of Lafayette and West Lafayette, and the Town
Councils of Battle Ground, Clarks Hill and Dayton, Indiana, being Ordinance 97-
51-CM, passed 11-24-97, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
code the same as if set forth in full herein. The ordinance in its entirety is
on file in the Area Plan office and one copy is on file in the Auditor’s
office, and is available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 97-51-CM, passed 11-24-97; Am. Ord. 98-12-CM, passed 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 98-
13-CM, passed 4-6-98; Am. Ord. 98-36-CM, passed 7-6-98; Am. Ord. 98-41-CM,
passed 9-21-98; Am. Ord. 98-47-CM, passed 11-2-98; Am. Ord. 98-50-CM, passed
11-2-98; Am. Ord. 98-51-CM, passed 11-2-98; Am. Ord. 99-08-CM, passed - -99;
Am. Ord. 99-08-CM, passed - -99; Am. Ord. 99-09-CM, passed 3-1-99; Am. Ord. 99-
20-CM, passed 5-3-99;Am. Ord. 99-24-CM, passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 99-29-CM,
passed 7-6-99; Am. Ord. 99-41-CM, passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. 99-43-CM, passed 10-
1-99; Am. Ord. 2000-01-CM, passed 1-3-00; Am. Ord. 2000-05-CM, passed 2-7-00;
2000-39-CM, passed 6-5-00; Am. Ord. 2000-40-CM, passed 6-5-00; Am. Ord. 2000-
56-CM, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2000-64-CM, passed 9-6-00; Am. Ord. 2001-04-CM,
passed 2-5-01; Am. Ord. 2001-19-CM, passed 7-2-01; Am. Ord. 2001-20-CM, passed
10-1-01; Am. Ord. 2001-25-CM, passed 9-5-01; Am. Ord. 2001-42-CM, passed 12-3-
01; Am. Ord. 2002-04-CM, passed 2-4-02; Am. Ord. 2002-14-CM, passed 3-4-02; Am.
Ord. 2002-21-CM, passed 6-3-02; Am. Ord. 2002-28-CM, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord.
2002-29-CM, 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2002-34-CM, passed 9-4-02; Am. Ord. 2003-07-CM,
passed 2-3-03; Am. Ord. 2003-15-CM, passed 5-5-03; Am. Ord. 2003-26-CM, passed
6-2-03; Am. Ord. 2003-33-CM, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2003-38- CM, passed 8-3-
04; Am. Ord. 2003-41-CM, passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord. 2004-04-CM, passed 2-2-04; Am.
Ord. 2004-10-CM, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2004-12-CM, passed 5-3-04; Am. Ord.
2004-30- CM, passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 2004-32-CM, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2004-
36-CM, passed 11-1-04; Am. Ord. 2005-05-CM, passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. 2005-22-CM,
passed 7-5-05; Am. Ord. 2006-05- CM, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2006-05-CM, passed
3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2006-13-CM, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 2006-23-CM, passed 10-2-
06; Am. Ord. 2007-01-CM, passed 1-2-07; Am. Ord. 2007-24- CM, passed 7-2-07;
Am. Ord. 2007-30-CM, passed 8-6-07; Am. Ord. 2008-06-CM, passed 3-3-08; Am.
Ord. 2008-09-CM, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord. 2008-10-CM, passed 4-7-08; Am. Ord.
2009-10-CM, passed 6-1-09; Am. Ord. 2009-14-CM, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-
15-CM, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-27-CM, passed 12-7-09; Am. Ord. 2010-07-CM,
passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-09-CM, passed 6-7-10; Am. Ord. 2010-12-CM, passed
8-2-10; Am. Ord. 2010-13-CM, passed 8-2-10; Am. Ord. 2010-17-CM, passed 9-7-10;
Am. Ord. 2010-18-CM, passed 9-7-10; Am. Ord. 2010-21-CM, passed 10-4-10; Am.
Ord. 2011-04- CM, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 2011-07-CM, passed 2-7-11; Am. Ord.
2011-15-CM, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2012-33-CM, passed 11-5-12; Am. Ord. 2013-
16-CM, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2013-18-CM, passed 5-6-13; Am. Ord. 2013-24-CM,
passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 2013-36-CM, passed 10-7-13; Am. Ord. 2013-43-CM, passed
12-2-13; Am. Ord. 2014-01-CM, passed 2-3-14; Am. Ord. 2014-04-CM, passed 5-5-
14; Am. Ord. 2014-10-CM, passed 7-7-14; Am. Ord. 2014-13-CM, passed 9-2-14; Am.
Ord. 2015-19-CM, passed 10-5-15; Am. Ord. 2015-20-CM, passed 10-5-15; Am. Ord.
2016-26-CM, passed 11-7-16; Am. Ord. 2017-02-CM, passed 4-3-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
03-CM, passed 4-3-17; Am. Ord. 2017-07-CM, passed 5-1-17; Am. Ord. 2017-14-CM,
passed 8-7-17; Am. Ord. 2017-19-CM, passed 10-2-17; Am. Ord. 2018-14-CM, passed
6-4-18; Am. Ord. 2019-09-CM, passed 4-1-19; Am. Ord. 2019-12-CM, passed 5-6-19;
Am. Ord. 2020-14- CM, passed 9-8-20; Am. Ord. 2020-19-CM, passed 11-2-20; Am.
Ord. 2021-05-CM, passed 2-1-21; Am. Ord. 2021-19-CM, passed 8-2-21; Am. Ord.
2021-20-CM, passed 8-2-21; Am. Ord. 2021-26-CM, passed 9-7-21; Am. Ord. 2022-
02-CM, passed 3-21-22; Am. Ord. 2022-08-CM, passed 6-6-22; Am. Ord. 2022-12-
CM, passed 8-1-22; Am. Ord. 2022-13-CM, passed - -22; Am. Ord. 2023-03-CM,
passed 2-6-23; Am. Ord. 2023-06-CM, passed 3-20-23)
MONUMENTS
§ 157.10 SECTION CORNER MARKERS.
   (A)   Except as provided by this section, it is made unlawful for any person
to move, change, damage or otherwise alter a monument marking a section corner
without complying with the provisions of I.C. 36-2-12-13.
   (B)   It is made unlawful for any person to damage or remove a monument
marking a section corner or HARN point. Any person who damages or removes a
monument marking a corner or high accuracy reference network (HARN) point shall
reimburse the county for the cost of repairing or replacing the monument.
   (C)   A person may, for excavation, mineral extraction, or other purposes
related to the person's business, including the activities described in
division (E) below, temporarily remove a monument marking a corner. The person
must notify in writing the County Surveyor at least 30 days before removing the
monument. The person must, within a reasonable time, either replace the
monument at the person's expense utilizing a registered land surveyor under the
supervision of the County Surveyor or, if the County Surveyor is not registered
under I.C. 25-21.5 or I.C. 25-31, the registered person who is appointed by the
Board of Commissioners under I.C. 36-2-12-11, or have the County Surveyor
replace the monument. The person shall reimburse the county for the cost of
such supervision or replacement by the County Surveyor. The Surveyor shall file
a copy of the notice in the Corner Record Book.
   (D)   Only the County Surveyor or his or her designee may change the
location of any monument. A person who wishes to have the location of a
monument changed must make a request to the surveyor in writing and furnish
written approval of all landowners whose property is affected by the proposed
change. The Surveyor may approve, reject, or modify the request and shall file
a copy of the notice and the landowners' consents in the Corner Record Book.
   (E)   When, in the construction or maintenance of a state, county, or
municipal road or street, it isnecessary to remove or bury a monument marking a
corner, the owner of the public right-of-way shall notify the County Surveyor
in writing at least 15 days before commencing the work.
   (F)   Any person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of an
infraction and may be fined up to $2000 for each monument damaged or removed
and all costs, including court costs, for each violation, and shall reimburse
the county for all costs of repairing or replacing each such monument.
   (G)   The County Sheriff or his designee, any deputy of the County Sheriff's
Department or the County Surveyor may issue a citation under the terms and
conditions of this section.
   (H)   All fines imposed for violations of this section shall be deposited in
the Tippecanoe County Surveyor's Corner Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 2003-39-CM, passed 8-4-03)
CHAPTER 158: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
Section
   
158.01   Thoroughfare Plan adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   For general traffic provisions, see
Chapter 70
   Streets and highways, see
Chapter 96
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Chapter 152
§ 158.01 THOROUGHFARE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Thoroughfare Plan enacted by the County Commissioners and the Common
Councils of the Cities of Lafayette and West Lafayette, and the Town Councils
of Battle Ground, Clarks Hill and Dayton, Indiana, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
The Plan in its entirety is on file in the Area Plan office and one copy is on
file in the Auditor's office, and is available for public inspection during
regular office hours.
(Am. Res. 87-14-CM, passed 5-18-87; Am. Res. 87-17-CM, passed 11-2-87; Am. Res.
89-2-CM, passed 3-21-89; Am. Res. 91-16-CM, passed 9-4-91; Am. Res. 96-04-CM,
passed 3-4-96; Am. Res. 96-08-CM, passed 7-1-96; Am. Res. 96-13-CM, passed 11-
11-96; Am. Ord. 97-36-CM, passed 9-2-97; Am. Res. 98-41-CM, passed - -98; Am.
Res. 2000-07-CM, passed 2-7-00; Am. Res. 2001-24-CM, passed 6-4-01)
CHAPTER 159: SUBDIVISION
Section
   
159.01   Subdivision ordinance adopted by reference
§ 159.01 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Subdivision Ordinance enacted by the County Commissioners and
the Common Councils of the Cities of Lafayette and West Lafayette, and the Town
Councils of Battle Ground, Clarks Hill and Dayton, Indiana, being Ordinance 79-
31-CM, passed 11-19-79, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
code the same as if set forth in full herein. The ordinance in its entirety is
on file in the Area Plan office and one copy is on file in the Auditor's
office, and is available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 79-31-CM, passed 11-19-79; Am. Ord. 81-01-CM, passed 1-19-81; Am. Ord.
82-15-CM, passed 8-30-82; Am. Ord. 85-07-CM, passed 3-18-85; Am. Ord. 87-04-CM,
passed 2-2-87; Am. Ord. 88-24-CM, passed 6-6-88; Am. Ord. 96-27-CM, passed 3-
22-96; Am. Ord. 98-11-CM, passed 3-3-98; Am. Ord. 2000-05-CM, passed 2-7-00;
Am. Ord. 2002-26-CM, passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. 2002-27-CM, passed 7-1-02; Am.
Ord. 2003-06-CM, passed 2-3-03; Am. Ord. 2009-13-CM, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2013-01-CM, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2013-02-CM, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 2014-
02-CM, passed 2-3-14; Am. Ord. 2014-05-CM, passed 5-5-14; Am. Ord. 2017-09-CM,
passed 6-5-17; Am. Ord. 2019-05-CM, passed 2-4-19; Am. Ord. 2021-30-CM, passed
10-4-21)
CHAPTER 160: AREA PLAN COMMISSION FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
160.01   Title
   
160.02   Purpose
Fees and Charges
   
160.10   Schedule of fees and charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the Area Plan Commission Fee Chapter, and may be cited as such and
will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 2006-31-CM, passed 12-18-06)
§ 160.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to approve and establish a uniform schedule
of charges and fees to be collected by the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2006-31-CM, passed 12-18-06)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 160.10 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following uniform schedule of charges and fees, including those
established by the Area Plan Commission, which shall be charged and collected
for services and products provided by the Area Plan Commission, is hereby
approved and established.
MAPS
   BASE MAPS:
   Lafayette North, South, Far-South, Southwest, East & West Lafayette (500')$5.00
                                                                                ea
   Urban Area Base and Urban Area Base Subdivision (1,000')                  $5.00
                                                                                ea
   County (3,000') & Township Bases (1,000')                                 $5.00
                                                                                ea
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAPS: (U.S.G.S. BASE)
   County (3,000'), Township (1,000')                                        $5.00
                                                                                ea
   ZONING MAPS:
   Lafayette North, South, Far-South, Southwest, East & West Lafayette (500')$5.00
                                                                                ea
   Battle Ground, Dayton, Clarks Hill, Montmorenci, Romney, Stockwell & West $5.00
Point, Buck Creek, Americus, Colburn, (Shadeland & Otterbein NOT available)     ea
   Township Zoning - scales vary (Union NOT available)                       $5.00
                                                                                ea
   Traffic Count Maps                                                        $3.00
                                                                                ea
   Aerial Photos (1990 & 2000)                                               $5.00
                                                                                ea
   Final Subdivision Plats (as available)                                    $5.00
                                                                                ea
   Precinct Maps                                                             $10.00
                                                                                ea
   Blueprints                                                                $5.00
                                                                                ea
   F.I.R.M. & FEMA Maps Photocopies only                                     see
                                                                                below
   Shipping/Handling is $1.50 for the first map plus $.50 for each additional map
ORDINANCES
                                                                                $20.00
   Unified Zoning Ordinance                                                  ea +
                                                                                $4.00
                                                                                Postage
                                                                                $20.00
   Unified Subdivision Ordinance                                             ea +
                                                                                $3.00
                                                                                Postage
PLANS
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR TIPPECANOE COUNTY                                  $100.00
                                                                                ea
   Intro                                                                     $1.60
   Land Use Technical Manual                                                 $4.80
   Land Use Plan & Maps and SIA Amendment                                    $17.95
   Dayton and Vicinity & Amendment                                           $1.50
   Clarks Hill$2.00
   Battle Ground Area$4.10
   Union Salem Corridor$1.35
   Lincoln Neighborhood$1.15
   St. Mary's Historic Neighborhood$0.85
   Ellsworth-Romig Historic Neighborhood$1.50
   Historic Jeff Neighborhood$1.00
   Columbian Park Neighborhood$1.60
   St. Lawrence/McAllister Neighborhood$2.00
   Housing Element$8.20
   Park & Recreation Plan$3.95
   Thoroughfare Plan$5.40
   Transportation Plan for Year 2025$9.55
   Transportation Plan for Year 2030 (available soon)—
   Bicycle/Pedestrian Plan$3.95
   Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
Plan only
Maps—on CD
Maps—printed$13.60
$6.60
$7.00
$6.00 ea or $24.00/set
MISCELLANEOUS
   Cemetery Map with alphabetical listing$5.00 ea
   Cemetery Book (Data Printout)$7.65
 
 
PHOTO COPIES
BLACK AND WHITE                   COLOR
      .05 (per    8½ x 1.10 (per side)
      .05 (per    8¼ x 1.10 (per side)
      .10 (per    11 x 17.15 (per side)
Additional $0.25 per order required for receipt preparation
   Fax                         .25 (per page)
 
SIGNS
   Rezone, Variance, Special Exception, Subdivision, Plat Vacation, RV Park, $10.00 each
Manufactured Home Park
FILING FEES
Service                                                                         Fee
Standard rezone                                                                 $500
                                                                                $1,000
                                                                                $200
                                                                                $600 + $30/
                                                                                du
PD rezone                                                                       $600 + $30/
   Draft                                                                     du + $0.10/
   Preliminary                                                               sf non-
   Final detailed plan - residential                                         residential
   Final detailed plan - mixed use                                           GFA
   Final detailed plan - non-residential                                     $600 +
   Plat review/recordation                                                   $0.10/sf
   Minor modification                                                        non-
                                                                                residential
                                                                                GFA
                                                                                $100
                                                                                $500
                                                                                $100 + $50
Variance - single-family residential                                            for each
                                                                                additional
                                                                                request
                                                                                $500 + $50
Variance - other                                                                for each
                                                                                additional
                                                                                request
Special exception                                                               $500
Appeals from decisions of administrative officers                               $500
Parcelization                                                                   $150
Dissolution of parcelization                                                    $25
Plat vacations                                                                  $250
                                                                                $100 per
                                                                                property/lot
Zoning verifications                                                            for official
                                                                                written
                                                                                verification
                                                                                With rezone:
                                                                                $500 + $100
                                                                                per
                                                                                commitment;
Commitments                                                                     $100 for
                                                                                recorded
                                                                                change,
                                                                                modification
                                                                                or release
                                                                                $500
                                                                                $500 + $30/
                                                                                lot for lots
Subdivisions                                                                    1 through
   Minor sketch                                                              200 + $20/
   Major sketch - residential (1 & 2 family)                                 lot for
   Major sketch - (multi-family)                                             each lot
   Major sketch - non-residential                                            over 200
   Prelim                                                                    $500 + $10/
   Const                                                                     du
   Final                                                                     $500 + $10/
   Belated extension requests                                                acre
   Extensions                                                                $500
                                                                                $500
                                                                                $500
                                                                                $50
                                                                                $200
 
(Ord. 2006-31-CM, passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 2013-46-CM, passed 12-16-13)
CHAPTER 161: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
161.01   Title
   
161.02   Purpose
   
161.03   Applicability
   
161.04   Authority
   
161.05   Conflict with other regulations
   
161.06   Permits and certificates required for construction and operation
   
161.07   Application procedure for permits
   
161.08   Application requirements
   
161.09   Safety design and installation standards
   
161.10   Operation and maintenance standards
   
161.11   Decommissioning plan
   
161.12   Liability insurance
   
161.13   Pre-construction requirements
   
161.14   Construction requirements
   
161.15   Post-construction requirements
   
161.16   Fees
   
161.17   Right of entry for inspections
   
161.18   Stop order
   
161.19   Violations
   
161.20   Right of appeal
   
161.21   Remedies
   
161.22   Definitions
§ 161.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the Wind Energy Conversion System Ordinance, may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Provide minimum standards for the protection of life, limb, health,
environment, public safety and welfare, and for the conservation of energy in
the design and construction of wind energy systems.
   (B)   Assure that any development and production of wind-generated
electricity in the county is safe and effective;
   (C)   Facilitate economic opportunities for local residents; and
   (D)   Promote the supply of wind energy in support of Indiana’s alternative
energy sources potential and other such economic development tools.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter govern the construction of wind energy
conversion systems (WECS) and substations that generate electricity to be sold
to wholesale or retail markets, or that generate electricity for private use.
   (B)   No applicant shall construct, operate, or locate a wind energy
conversion system (WECS) within the county after March 1, 2010 without having
fully complied with the provisions of this chapter and the County Unified
Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   No final approval of construction for any wind energy conversion
systems (WECS) or structure erected, altered or repaired after March 1, 2010
shall be granted unless such wind energy conversion systems (WECS) or structure
was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.04 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever in this
chapter it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject
to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the Board
of Commissioners, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion (reasonably exercised) of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulation, codes, or standards shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in
an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall be authorized to issue wind energy
conversion systems (WECS) construction permits and inspection certificates,
collect fees, perform inspections, order correction of violations of WECS
regulations, and authorize occupancy of WECS and structures situated within the
unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.05 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to preempt other applicable state and
federal laws or regulations, including compliance with all Federal Aviation
Administration rules, regulations and notification requirements. Nor is
anything intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance,
rule, or regulation, statute or other provision of law. In the event that any
provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or provision of law, the provisions that
are more restrictive or that imposes higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.06 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   No wind energy conversion system (WECS) shall be constructed in the
county without first obtaining a WECS construction permit in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   No wind energy conversion system shall be operated in the county
without a valid WECS inspection certificate in accordance with this chapter.
Each WECS inspection certificate shall be valid for a period of one year from
the date of issuance. Notwithstanding the terms of the preceding sentence, an
inspection certificate shall not be considered invalid so long as a timely and
generally complete application to renew is pending.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.07 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for a WECS construction permit shall be submitted to the
Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Applicant shall provide notice of the intent to build any WECS or WECS
project to all property owners upon whose property the WECS or WECS project is
to be constructed, and all adjoining property owners, to the extent and in the
manner required of applicants for a special exception from the County Board of
Zoning Appeals, prior to making application for a WECS construction permit.
Provision of such notice in connection with an application for such a special
exception shall constitute compliance with this section, and duplicate notice
shall not be required.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall, with assistance from such staff,
consultants, committees or commissions as it deems appropriate, determine
whether the application for a WECS construction permit is complete and contains
all of the materials, information, agreements, deposits and payments required
to be submitted with an application under §
161.08. If an application is not complete, the applicant shall be so advised,
and no further action shall be taken by the county until a complete application
is received.
   (D)   After the Building Commissioner determines that an application for a
WECS construction permit is complete, the Building Commissioner shall determine
whether the application meets all requirements of this chapter. In determining
whether the application meets the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Commissioner may obtain assistance from such staff and consultants as it deems
appropriate. The Building Commissioner shall process the complete application
as soon as reasonable and feasible, given the complexity of the application,
other business facing the county, staff and other resources, questions that
arise during the review process, and other matters affecting the time needed to
complete the review process.
   (E)   If an application for a WECS construction permit is complete and meets
all requirements of this chapter, and the applicant has paid all fees and costs
pursuant to §
161.16 of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall approve the application
and issue a WECS construction permit for the WECS. If an application does not
meet all requirements of this chapter or the applicant has not paid all fees
and costs pursuant to §
161.16, the Building Commissioner may deny the application or approve the
application with conditions that will assure compliance with this chapter. If
an application is approved with conditions, a WECS construction permit for the
WECS shall be issued when all conditions of approval have been satisfied.
   (F)   If a WECS inspection certificate has not been issued within 30 months
after a WECS construction permit for the WECS has been issued, the WECS
construction permit shall expire.
   (G)   Applications for a WECS inspection certificate shall be submitted to
the Building Commissioner. The application for a WECS inspection certificate
shall include a completed WECS inspection certificate application form as
provided by the Building Commissioner, and shall include such information as
may be required by the Building Commissioner to verify continued compliance
with all requirements of this chapter which were in effect when the original
WECS construction permit for the WECS or WECS project was issued and payment of
the annual inspection certificate fee required by §
161.16.
   (H)   The Building Commissioner shall determine whether the application for
a WECS inspection certificate is complete and that the applicant continues to
comply with all requirements which were in effect when the original WECS
construction permit for the WECS or WECS project was issued. If an application
is complete, the applicant continues to comply with all such requirements, and
has paid the annual inspection certificate fee, the Building Commissioner shall
promptly approve the application and issue the WECS inspection certificate.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.08 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Permits shall be applied for and reviewed under the procedures established
by this chapter. A complete application shall include a completed application
form as provided by the Building Commissioner, which shall include all of the
information, documents, plans, deposits and other items required to be
submitted with an application under this section and Unified Zoning Ordinance §
6-2-5.
   (A)   Applications for all wind energy conversion systems construction
permits. All applications for WECS construction permits shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Contact information of project applicant. The name(s), address(es),
and phone number(s) of the applicant(s), as well as a description of the
applicant’s business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
      (2)   Contact information of current project owner. The name(s), address
(es), and phone number(s) of the owner(s), as well as a description of the
owner’s business structure and overall role in the proposed project, and
including documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property on
which the WECS is proposed to be located. The Building Commissioner shall be
informed of any changes in ownership.
      (3)   Contact information of project operator. The name(s), address(es),
and phone number(s) of the operator(s), as well as a description of the
operator’s business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
      (4)   Legal description. The legal description, address, and general
location of the project.
      (5)   Project description. A WECS project description, including
information on each wind turbine proposed, including:
         (a)   Number of turbines;
         (b)   Type;
         (c)   Name plate generating capacity;
         (d)   Tower height;
         (e)   Rotor diameter;
         (f)   Total height;
         (g)   Anchor base;
         (h)   The means of interconnecting with the electrical grid;
         (i)   The potential equipment manufacturer(s);
         (k)   All related accessory structures;
         (l)   A site plan, drawn at an appropriate scale, showing distances
pertaining to all applicable setback requirements and certified by a registered
land surveyor; and
         (m)   A unique identification number which shall be affixed to and
shall identify each tower, and the GPS coordinates of the location of each
tower.
      (6)   Engineering certification. For all WECS except micro WECS, a
registered professional engineer shall certify, as part of the WECS
construction permit application, that the foundation and tower design of the
WECS is within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions. An engineering analysis of each WECS tower showing compliance with
the applicable regulations and certified by a registered professional engineer
shall also be submitted. The analysis shall be accompanied by standard drawings
of the wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, and footings.
      (7)   Proof of correspondence and cooperation with wildlife agencies. For
all WECS except micro WECS, for the purposes of preventing harm to migratory
birds and in compliance with the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the applicant shall
provide written documentation that he or she is in direct correspondence and
cooperation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, and will comply with the statutes and regulations
administered thereby.
      (8)   Fire prevention and emergency response plan and proof of notice to
affected emergency responders. Each application for all WECS except micro WECS,
shall include a fire prevention and emergency response plan which describes the
potential fire and emergency scenarios that may require a response from fire,
emergency medical services, police or other emergency responders. The plan
shall designate the specific agencies that would respond to potential fire or
other emergencies. The fire prevention and emergency response plan shall be
developed in cooperation with each such agency, and shall include:
         (a)   Proof of delivery of written notice of the filing of such
application to each such agency.
         (b)   A description of all emergency response training and equipment
needed to respond to a fire or other emergency.
         (c)   An assessment of the training and equipment currently available
to each such agency.
         (d)   A description of what additional training and equipment may be
needed by each of the designated agencies in order to respond to a potential
fire or other emergency.
         (e)   The means for providing any such special training or emergency
response equipment needed to the designated agencies at applicant’s cost.
      (9)   Zoning compliance. Evidence (i) of final, non-appealable approval
of a special exception by the County Board of Zoning Appeals for any commercial
WECS and the issuance of an improvement location permit therefor, or (ii) that
a non-commercial WECS or micro WECS is permitted as an accessory use under the
County Uniform Zoning Ordinance and issuance of an improvement location permit
therefor.
      (10)   Any other item reasonably requested by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Applications for non-commercial wind energy conversion systems
construction permits. In addition to the application requirements listed in
division (A), applications for non-commercial WECS construction permits shall
also include the following information:
      (1)   Statement of Federal Aviation Administration compliance. A copy of
applicant’s Federal Aviation Administration permit application and a statement
of compliance with all applicable Federal Aviation Administration rules and
regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations within close
proximity to an airport.
      (2)   Utility notification. No non-commercial WECS shall be installed
until evidence has been given that the local utility company has been informed
of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator.
Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (3)   Compliance with National Electrical Code. A line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code. This
information is frequently supplied by the manufacturer.
      (4)   Pre-construction sound measurements. A pre-construction noise study
meeting the requirements of division (C)(3), approved by a qualified
independent acoustical consultant selected by the Building Commissioner.
      (5)   Shadow flicker assessment and requirements. A shadow flicker
assessment model and plan meeting the requirements of division (C)(14).
      (6)   Post-construction sound measurement procedures. A protocol for
conducting post-construction sound measurements to verify that the WECS project
will meet the requirements of §
161.09 which has been approved by a qualified independent acoustical consultant
retained by the county.
   (C)   Applications for commercial wind energy conversion systems. In
addition to the application requirements listed in division (A), applications
for commercial WECS shall also include the following information:
      (1)   Site plan. Applications for commercial WECS shall include a site
plan with distances drawn to an appropriate scale illustrating the following:
         (a)   Property lines, including identification of adjoining
properties;
         (b)   The latitude and longitude of each individual WECS tower, along
with individual identification of each WECS tower;
         (c)   Dimensional representation of the structural components of the
WECS tower construction including the base and footings;
         (d)   WECS access roads;
         (e)   Substations;
         (f)   Electrical cabling;
         (g)   Ancillary equipment;
         (h)   Primary structures within one-quarter mile of all proposed WECS
towers;
         (g)   Distances from each individual WECS tower to each setback
requirement;
         (i)   Location of all public roads which abut, or traverse the
proposed site;
         (j)   The location of all above-ground utility lines within a distance
of two times the height of any proposed WECS structure;
         (k)   The location of any historic or heritage sites as recognized by
the Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology of the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, within one mile of a proposed WECS tower;
         (l)   The location of any wetlands based upon a delineation plan
prepared in accordance with the applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
requirements and guidelines, within one mile of a proposed WECS tower; and
         (m)   Location of all regulated drains which abut or traverse the
proposed site.
      (2)   Topographic map. A topographical map of the property and the
surrounding area, using standards consistent with the most recent County GIS
Map, including any other WECS tower within a ten rotor distance, but no less
than a one-quarter mile radius from the proposed project site, with contours of
not more than two foot intervals.
      (3)   Pre-construction sound measurements.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a pre-construction noise study
approved by a qualified independent acoustical consultant, which provides
sufficient information for the Building Commissioner to verify after
consultation with a qualified independent acoustical consultant retained by the
county, that the WECS project will meet the requirements of §
161.09 of this chapter, including without limitation:
            1.   The make and model of the proposed wind turbine generators
(WTG).
            2.   Electrical output of the proposed wind turbine generators.
            3.    Octave band sound power levels (Lw) from 63 Hz through 8,000
Hz or one-third octave band sound power levels (Lw) from 50 Hz through 10,000
Hz for the proposed wind turbine generators (WTG).
            4.   Predicted A-weighted (dBA) and C-weighted (dBC) sound levels
within the WECS project properties and adjoining properties during full load
operation of the WECS calculated using industry-recognized international
modeling standards (i.e., ISO 9613-2, Acoustics B Attenuation of sound during
propagation outdoors B Part 2: General method of calculation) and including a
description of all meteorological conditions and ground absorption factors. The
prediction will use manufacturer’s octave band or one-third octave band sound
power levels (Lw) based on industry-recognized measurement standards (i.e., IEC
61400-11, Wind turbine generator systems B Part 11: Acoustic noise measurement
techniques). A-weighted (dBA) predicted results will be displayed as a sound
level contour map (isopleths) throughout the project area. The results will
also be provided in tabular format, showing the predicted A-weighted (dBA) and
C-weighted (dBC) broadband levels as well as linear (unweighted) octave band
sound pressure levels from 63 Hz to 8 KHz for each turbine location and
dwelling within the project area, the closest point on each adjoining non-
participating property owner’s property line, and each adjoining
nonparticipating landowners primary structure and dwelling, if any.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner will refer the applicant’s information
and sound studies to a qualified independent acoustical consultant for review
and a determination, at applicant’s cost, whether the proposed WECS will comply
with the sound limits set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   Location of all known WECS towers within one mile of the proposed
WECS tower, including a description of the potential impacts on said WECS tower
and wind resources on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Communications study. The applicant shall complete a communications
study prior to construction verifying that the WECS project will not interfere
with any public or public serving utility microwave transmissions, and
including any actions which may be required to mitigate interference with
electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves, or
television signals caused by any WECS project.
      (6)   Statement of Federal Aviation Administration compliance. A copy of
applicant’s Federal Aviation Administration permit application and a statement
of compliance with all applicable Federal Aviation Administration rules and
regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations within close
proximity to an airport.
      (7)   Compliance with National Electrical Code. A line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code. This
information is frequently supplied by the manufacturer.
      (8)   Decommissioning plan. A fully executed copy of the decommissioning
plan in accordance with §
161.11 of this chapter and approved by the County Commissioners.
      (9)   Economic development agreement. A fully executed copy of an
economic development agreement prepared in conjunction with the County Economic
Development Commission and approved by the County Commissioners.
      (10)   Road use and maintenance agreement. A fully executed road use and
maintenance agreement prepared in conjunction with the Executive Director of
the County Highway Department and approved by the County Commissioners.
      (11)   Drainage agreement. A fully executed drainage agreement prepared
in conjunction with the County Surveyor and approved by the County Drainage
Board. The drainage agreement must prescribe or reference provisions to address
crop and field tile damages and include verification of compliance with the
County Stormwater Control Ordinance and Indiana Department of Environmental
Management Rule 5.
      (12)   Erosion control plan. A fully executed erosion control plan
developed in consultation with the County Surveyor, which shall comply with any
storm water quality management regulations plan adopted by the applicable
jurisdiction.
      (13)   Utility plan. A utility plan drawn to the same scale as the site
plan illustrating the location of all underground utility lines associated with
the total WECS project.
      (14)   Shadow flicker assessment and requirements. An application for a
commercial or non-commercial WECS construction permit shall include a detailed
shadow flicker assessment model and plan prepared by a registered professional
regularly engaged in this type of work with not less than three years
experience, which contains the following information and meets the following
requirements:
         (a)   The study area will examine areas where shadow flicker will
occur within a one mile radius of each wind turbine.
         (b)   The study will include:
            1.   The location of each turbine.
            2.   The location of each receptor (dwelling or occupied structure,
structure permitted for construction or intersections between any of the
following road types: interstate, principal arterial, minor arterial, major
collector or minor collector) where the WECS may cause shadow flicker to occur.
            3.   Existing topography (elevation contours and vegetation).
            4.   Rotor diameter and hub height.
            5.   Joint wind speed and direction distribution (wind rose table).
            6.   Hours of sunshine (long term monthly references).
         (c)   The study may be prepared by use of current aerial photography,
GIS, and topographical maps. A site visit by the preparer is required to
identify receptors and verify the existing conditions.
         (d)   The study shall calculate the locations and durations of shadow
flicker caused by the proposed WECS within the study area, and model shall
clearly indicate the duration of shadow flicker at each receptor and across the
entire study area showing the total number of hours per year anticipated.
         (e)   Wind turbines shall be sited such that shadow flicker will not
fall on a receptor, except that shadow flicker expected to fall on a dwelling
or intersection as described in §
161.08(C)(14)(b)(2) be allowed if the flicker will not exceed 40 hours per
year, or the number of hours that the owner of such dwelling or intersection as
described in §
161.08(C)(14)(b)(2) has agreed to in writing, at any one receptor measured as
the sum of those times during which shadow flicker occurs during any calendar
year.
         (f)   Problem zones where shadow flicker will interfere with existing
and future receptors shall be identified, and measures to mitigate problems
shall be described, including but not limited to siting changes, operational
procedures, grading or landscaping.
      (15)   Post-construction sound measurement procedures. A protocol for
conducting post-construction sound measurements to verify that the WECS project
will meet the requirements of § 161.09 which has been approved by a qualified
independent acoustical consultant retained by the county.
   (D)   Applications for all WECS meteorological towers. Applications for all
WECS meteorological towers shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the agreement where landowner has authorized the
placement of a WECS meteorological tower on their property.
      (2)   Preliminary site plan. A preliminary site plan with distances drawn
to an appropriate scale including the following:
         (a)   Property lines, including identification of adjoining
properties;
         (b)   The latitude and longitude of each individual WECS
meteorological tower;
         (c)   Dimensional representation of the structural components of the
tower construction, including the base and footings;
         (d)   Prior to implementation of the existing procedures for the
resolution of such default(s), the appropriate county body shall first provide
written notice to the owner and/or electrical cabling;
         (e)   Ancillary equipment;
         (f)   Required setback lines;
         (g)   Location of all public roads which abut, or traverse the
proposed site;
         (h)   The location of all above-ground utility lines within a distance
of two times the height of any proposed tower;
         (i)   The location of all underground utility lines;
         (j)   Location of all regulated drains which abut or traverse the
proposed site; and
         (k)   Any other items reasonably requested by the Building
Commissioner.
   (E)   Aggregated WECS project applications. A single application may be
filed for a WECS project located on multiple parcels.
   (F)   Fees.
      (1)   Commercial WECS, non-commercial WECS, micro WECS, and WECS
meteorological towers shall be assessed the fees prescribed in County Code
Chapter 151.
      (2)   Aggregated WECS projects. Aggregated WECS projects will be assessed
separate fees prescribed in County Code Chapter 151 for each construction phase
within a single project.
      (3)   Buildings and other structures associated with the construction and
operation of WECS shall comply with the Unified Zoning Ordinance, and shall be
assessed the building permit and improvement location permit fees prescribed in
County Code
Chapter 151 and Unified Zoning Ordinance § 4-11-11.
   (G)   Permits.
      (1)   Applications for construction of commercial WECS, non-commercial
WECS, micro WECS, and WECS meteorological towers, and any accessory buildings
shall include:
         (a)   All application requirements as stated in this section before
any WECS construction permit is issued.
         (b)   A copy of all fully executed agreements or memorandums of
agreement, if applicable, signed by participating landowners authorizing the
placement of the identified WECS towers on the landowner’s property.
         (c)   A copy of all fully executed setback or other agreements, if
applicable, signed by nonparticipating landowners for adjoining properties.
      (2)   Aggregated WECS projects. For aggregated projects, a single WECS
construction permit and inspection certificate may be issued, which includes
all WECS towers and WECS meteorological towers to be constructed in one
construction phase within an aggregated WECS project.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.09 SAFETY DESIGN AND INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Equipment type.
      (1)   Turbines. All turbines shall be constructed of commercially
available equipment.
      (2)   Meteorological towers. All WECS meteorological towers may be guyed.
      (3)   Experimental, or proto-type equipment. Experimental or proto-type
equipment still in testing which does not fully comply with industry standards,
must be approved by Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Industry standards and other regulations. All WECS shall conform to
applicable industry standards, as well as all local, state and federal
regulations. An applicant shall submit certificate(s) of design compliance that
wind turbine manufacturers have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories, Det
Norske Veritas, Germanishcher Lloyed Wind Energie, or an equivalent third
party.
   (C)   Controls and brakes.
      (1)   Braking system. All WECS towers shall be equipped with a redundant
(both manual and automatic) braking system. This includes both aerodynamic over
speed controls (including variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and
mechanical brakes. Stall regulation shall not be considered a sufficient
braking system for over speed protection.
      (2)   Operation mode. All mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-
safe mode.
   (D)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Standards. All electrical components of all WECS shall conform to
applicable local, state and national codes, and any relevant national and
international standards.
      (2)   Collection cables. All electrical collection cables between each
WECS tower shall be located in accordance with the provisions of the County
Unified Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Transmission lines. All transmission lines that are buried should be
at a depth consistent with or greater than local utility and telecommunication
underground lines standards or as negotiated with the land owner or the land
owner’s designee until the same reach the property line or a substation
adjacent to the property line.
   (F)   Color and finish. In addition to all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration requirements, the following shall also apply:
      (1)   Wind turbines and towers. All wind turbines and towers that are
part of a WECS shall be white, grey, or another neutral color.
      (2)   Blades. All blades shall be white, grey, or another neutral color.
Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
      (3)   Finishes. Finishes shall be non-reflective.
      (4)   Exceptions. Exception may be made for all WECS meteorological
towers, where concerns exist relative to aerial spray applicators.
   (G)   Warnings.
      (1)   Commercial WECS. The following notices shall be posted for all
commercial WECS:
         (a)   A sign or signs shall be posted on the pad-mounted transformer
and the substation(s) warning of high voltage.
         (b)   Private roads providing access to commercial WECS shall have
posted an Emergency-911 address road sign, which address shall be issued by the
Area Plan Commission.
         (c)   Guy wires and anchor points. For all guyed towers, one of the
following warning mechanisms shall be used for each anchor point:
            1.   Visible or reflective objects. Visible and reflective objects,
such as flags, plastic sleeves, reflectors, or tape placed on the anchor points
of guy wires and along the innermost guy wires up to eight feet above the
ground.
            2.   Visible fencing. Visible fencing not less than six feet in
height installed around anchor points of guy wires.
      (2)   Non-commercial WECS. The following notices shall be clearly visible
on all non-commercial WECS and accessory facilities:
         (a)   “No Trespassing” signs shall be attached to any perimeter fence.
         (b)   “Danger” signs shall be posted at the height of five feet on
WECS towers and accessory structures.
         (c)   A sign shall be posted on the WECS tower showing an emergency
telephone number.
         (d)   The manual electrical and/or overspeed shutdown disconnect
switch(es) shall be clearly labeled.
      (3)   Meteorological towers. Consideration shall be given to paint
aviation warnings as required by the Federal Aviation Administration on all
WECS meteorological towers.
   (H)   Climb prevention. All commercial WECS tower designs shall include
features to deter climbing or be protected by anti-climbing devices such as:
      (1)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet in height;
      (2)   Anti-climbing devices 12 feet vertically from the base of the WECS
tower; or
      (3)   Locked WECS tower doors.
   (I)   Blade clearance. The minimum distance between the ground and any
protruding blades(s) utilized on all commercial or non-commercial WECS towers
shall be 30 feet, as measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades.
   (J)   Lighting.
      (1)   Intensity and frequency. All lighting, including lighting intensity
and frequency of strobe, shall comply with requirements established by Federal
Aviation Administration permits and regulations and be in conformity with the
County Unified Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Shielding. Except with respect to lighting required by the Federal
Aviation Administration, lighting may require shielding so that no glare
extends substantially beyond any WECS tower.
   (K)   Materials handling, storage and disposal.
      (1)   Solid wastes. All solid wastes whether generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging, operation or maintenance of the WECS, including
old parts and equipment related to the construction, operation and/or
maintenance of the WECS shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws.
      (2)   Hazardous materials. All hazardous materials or waste related to
the construction, operation and/or maintenance of any WECS shall be handled,
stored, transported and disposed of in accordance with all applicable local,
state and federal laws.
   (L)   Other applicable standards.
      (1)   Guyed wire anchors. No guyed wire anchors shall be allowed within
any required public road right-of-way.
      (2)   Sewer and water. All WECS projects shall comply with the existing
septic and well regulations as required by the County Health Department and/or
the State of Indiana Department of Public Health.
      (3)   Noise and vibration. 
         (a)   The noise level measured at any time any part of a WECS project
is operating, or when all WECS are fully operating, shall not:
            1.   Exceed 50 dBa (LAeq 1-Hour) or exceed 65 dBC (LCeq 1-Hour)
when measured at a point within 25 feet of a non-participating landowner’s
primary structure and dwelling, if any, on a direct line between the primary
structure and dwelling, if any, and the nearest WECS tower.
            2.   Exceed 55 dBa (LAeq 1-Hour) or exceed 75 dBC (LCeq 1-Hour)
when measured at the point on a non-participating landowner’s property line
which is closest to the nearest WECS tower.
            3.   Exceed 70 dB (Leq 1-Hour) sound pressure level in the 31 Hz
octave band or 60 dB (Leq 1-Hour) sound pressure level in the 63 Hz octave band
when measured at a point within 25 feet of a non-participating landowner’s
primary structure and dwelling, if any, on a direct line between the primary
structure and dwelling, if any, and the nearest WECS tower.
            4.   Exceed 75 dB (Leq 1-Hour) sound pressure level in the 31 Hz
octave band or 65 dB (Leq 1-Hour) sound pressure level in the 63 Hz octave band
when measured at the point on a non-participating landowner’s property line
which is closest to the nearest WECS tower.
         (b)   A penalty of 5 dBa and 5 dBC shall be added to the actual sound
level measured for each of the conditions listed below if they are created by
the operation of the wind turbines:
            1.   If a prominent tone is present.  A prominent tone exists if
the one-third octave band sound pressure level in the band with the suspected
tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the two contiguous bands by 5 decibels
(dB) for center frequencies of 500 Hz and above, or by 8 dB for center
frequencies between 160 Hz and 400 Hz, or by 15 dB for center frequencies less
than or equal to 125 Hz when measured in the direction of the WECS and within
25 feet of a non-participating landowner’s primary structure and dwelling, if
any.
            2.   If the difference between the dBA and dBC measurement is
greater than 20 dB when the wind turbine is operated so as to result in its
highest sound output.
      (4)   Utility interconnection. The WECS, if interconnected to a utility
system, shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operate as
prescribed by the applicable regulations of the electrical utility, as amended
from time to time.
      (5)   Signage. All signs pertaining to a WECS project must comply with
County Unified Zoning Ordinance sign standards, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Warning signs required by this chapter.
         (b)   Height. No free-standing sign shall exceed eight feet in height.
         (c)   Manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo. The
manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo may be placed upon the
compartment containing the electrical equipment.
         (d)   Development signs. An identification sign relating to the WECS
project development may be located on each side of the total WECS project area,
provided that there are no more than four signs located on any one WECS project
or aggregated WECS project site and no more than one per road frontage.
         (e)   Other signs and logos. No other advertising signs or logos shall
be placed or painted on any structure or facility that is part of the WECS
project.
      (6)   Collection lines. All communications and electricity collection
lines installed as part of any WECS shall be buried underground. Communication
and electricity collection lines only refer to lines between wind turbines.
Electric lines between the WECS substation and the transmission grid may be
above ground lines.
      (7)   Other appurtenances. No appurtenances other than those associated
with the WECS construction, operations, maintenance, decommissioning/removal,
and permit requirements shall be connected to any WECS tower.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.10 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Physical modifications. In general, any physical modification to any
WECS that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major electrical
components shall require re-application for a construction permit or inspection
certificate. Like-kind replacements in the same location shall not require re-
application. Therefore, prior to making any such physical modification, the
owner or operator shall confer with the Building Commissioner and Area Plan
staff to determine whether the physical modification requires re-application or
a new special exception.
   (B)   Interference. Applicant, owner and/or operator shall take such actions
as may be required to mitigate interference with electromagnetic
communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves, or television signals
caused by any WECS. In addition, the applicant, owner, and/or operator shall
comply with the following:
      (1)   If, a WECS inspection certificate has been issued, the owner or
operator receives a written complaint related to interference with the
broadcast of residential television, telecommunication, communication or
microwave transmissions, the owner or operator shall take reasonable steps to
mitigate said interference. Interference with private telecommunications
systems such as GPS shall be between the company and the complainant.
      (2)   Failure to remedy a complaint. If the Building Commissioner
determines that an owner or operator has unreasonably failed to remedy verified
interference with the broadcast of residential television, telecommunication,
communication or microwave transmissions within 90 days after owner or operator
received a written complaint related thereto, the Building Commissioner may
take appropriate action to rescind the owner’s or operator’s WECS inspection
certificate. This does not apply to interference with private
telecommunications systems.
   (C)   Complaint resolution.
      (1)   After a WECS inspection certificate has been issued, a person
aggrieved by an alleged failure of the owner or operator of the WECS to comply
with the safety design and installation standards set out in §
161.09 or the operation and maintenance standards set out in §
161.10 (the standards) may file a written complaint with the Building
Commissioner specifying the factual basis for the alleged failure.
      (2)   If the Building Commissioner determines that the facts alleged, if
true, would constitute a violation of the standards, or otherwise has reason to
believe that a violation has occurred, the Building Commissioner shall notify
the owner or operator of the alleged violation in writing, and deliver a copy
of the complaint, if any, to the owner or operator.
      (3)   The owner or operator shall:
         (a)   Log the complaint;
         (b)   Log the WECS operating and meteorological conditions for the
reported time of the complaint;
         (c)   Take reasonable steps to remedy the complaint;
         (d)   Provide a written response to the complainant; and
         (e)   Submit a copy of the complaint, the response, the operating and
meteorological condition log, and documentation of compliance to the Building
Commissioner within ten business days after receiving a copy of the written
complaint.
      (4)   Complaint resolution shall be deemed satisfactory when the owner or
operator has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner that
it has complied with the standards set out in §
161.09 and §
161.10 with respect to the issues raised in the written complaint.
      (5)   If the Building Commissioner determines that an owner or operator
of the WECS has failed to take reasonable steps to remedy a complaint as set
out in division (4) above within 90 days after receipt thereof, the Building
Commissioner may order the owner or operator of the WECS to take the actions as
may be required to cure the failure, including, but not limited to, curtailing
operation of the WECS, or components thereof, under the specific meteorological
conditions which were in existence at the reported time of the complaint until
the owner or operator has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Building
Commissioner that it is in compliance with the standards set out in §
161.09 and §
161.10 regarding the issues raised in the written complaint.
         (a)   Any curtailment order shall specify the:
            1.   Hub height wind speed as measured at the WTG nearest the
complainant;
            2.   Wind direction as measured at the WTG nearest to the
complainant;
            3.   Specific hour of the day (ranging from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.) or specific hour of the night (from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.); and
            4.   Days of the year for which curtailment applies.
         (b)   If curtailment does not return the WECS to compliance, the
Building Commissioner may revoke the owner or operator’s WECS inspection
certificate upon 15 days prior written notice thereof, provided however the
appeal rights set out in §
161.20 shall apply. An owner or operator whose WECS inspection certificate has
been revoked may apply for reinstatement of its WECS inspection certificate
after curing any compliance issues.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.11 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   Prior to receiving a WECS construction permit or improvement location permit
under this chapter and the Unified Zoning Ordinance, the applicant, owner and/
or operator shall formulate a decommissioning plan approved by the Board of
Commissioners providing for the method and payment of the anticipated cost of
removing a WECS at the end of its serviceable life or upon its becoming a
discontinued or abandoned use to ensure that the WECS is properly
decommissioned.
   (A)   Content. A decommissioning plan shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Assurance. Written assurance that the WECS will be properly
decommissioned upon the expiration of its servicable life or in the event of
its discontinuance or abandonment.
      (2)   Cost estimates. For all WECS except micro WECS, an estimate of the
costs of decommissioning and removing the WECS upon the expiration of its
useful life, or in the event of its discontinuance or abandonment. The cost
estimates shall be made by a professional engineer, contractor, or other person
with expertise or experience in decommissioning and removal of WECS.
      (3)   Financial assurance. For all WECS except micro WECS, applicant will
provide financial assurance in an amount not less than the estimated costof
decommissioning and removing the WECS, in the form of a bond, letter of credit
or other security acceptable to the Board of Commissioners, for the cost of
decommissioning each WECS tower and related improvements constructed under the
permit. Said security will be released when each WECS tower is properly
decommissioned as determined by the Building Commissioner.
      (4)   Abandonment. Verification under penalties for perjury, that all
easements and/or leases for the WECS contain terms that provide financial
assurances to the property owners to ensure that the WECS are properly
decommissioned within one year of the expiration of its serviceable life or in
the event of its discontinuance or abandonment.
   (B)   Discontinuation and abandonment.
      (1)   Discontinuation. All WECS shall be considered abandoned and a
discontinued use after one year without energy production, unless a plan is
developed and approved by the Building Commissioner outlining the steps and
schedule for returning the WECS to service.
      (2)   Removal. An applicant’s obligations shall include removal of all
physical material pertaining to the project improvements to no less than a
depth of four feet below ground level within 365 days of the discontinuation or
abandonment of the WECS or WECS project, and restoration of the project area to
as near as practicable the condition of the site immediately before
construction of such improvements. Removal obligations shall be completed by
the owner or by the county at the owner’s expense.
      (3)   Written notices. Prior to implementing procedures to resolve any
alleged failure to comply with the decommissioning plan, the appropriate county
body shall first provide written notice to the owner and/or operator, setting
forth the alleged default(s). Such written notice shall provide the owner and/
or operator a reasonable time period, not to exceed 60 days, to resolve the
alleged default(s).
      (4)   Costs incurred by the county. If the county removes a WECS tower
and appurtenant facilities, it may sell the salvage to defray the costs of
removal. Each permittee, by virtue of the issuance of its construction permit
or inspection certificate grants a license to the county to enter the property
and to remove all WECS towers and appurtenant facilities pursuant to the terms
of its approved decommissioning plan.
   (C)   Declaration of public nuisance. Any WECS, structure or portion thereof
declared to be unsafe by the County Building Inspector by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, damage or abandonment is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the approved
decommissioning plan.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.12 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   For all WECS except micro WECS, the owner or operator of any WECS shall
maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury and property
damage naming the county as an additional insured with dollar amount limits of
not less than $5,000,000 per occurrence, in the aggregate, and a deductible
which is suitable to the county.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.13 PRE-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to complying with the approved road use and maintenance
agreement, an applicant, owner, or operator proposing to use any county road
(s), for the purpose of transporting any component of a commercial WECS project
and/or equipment for construction, operation or maintenance of a commercial
WECS project, shall comply with the following pre-construction requirements.
   (A)   Identification of roads and services. Identify all roads and services,
to the extent that any proposed routes that will be used for construction and
maintenance purposes shall be identified. If the route includes a public road,
it shall be approved by the Executive Director of the County Highway Department
upon a determination that use of the proposed route will not be inconsistent
with public health, safely or general welfare.
   (B)   Pre-construction survey. The applicant shall conduct a pre-
construction baseline survey acceptable to the Executive Director of the County
Highway Department to determine existing road conditions for assessing
potential future damage. The survey shall include photographs, or video, or a
combination thereof, and a written agreement to document the condition of the
public facility.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.14 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   During construction, the applicant shall demonstrate that the following
requirements are being met:
   (A)   Dust control. Dust control measures shall be required by the county
during construction of a commercial WECS project in accordance with the road
use and maintenance agreement developed in conjunction with the Executive
Director of the County Highway Department and approved by the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Drainage. Applicant shall comply with the County Stormwater Management
Ordinance, including storm water best management practices, and promptly repair
any county-owned regulated drains, drainage tiles or open ditches or privately
owned drainage tiles or private drains which are damaged during the course of
construction, and remove any obstructions to natural surface drainage which
occurs during construction, all in accordance with the approved drainage
agreement developed in conjunction with the County Surveyor and the County
Drainage Board.
   (C)   Road maintenance. Applicant shall promptly repair any county roads or
related appurtenances, including bridges, culverts, signage, or other road
fixtures, which are damaged during the course of construction, all in
accordance with the road use and maintenance agreement developed in conjunction
with the Executive Director of the County Highway Department and approved by
the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.15 POST-CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Post-construction, the applicant shall comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   Road repairs. Any road damage caused by the construction of project
equipment, the installation of the same, or the removal of the same, shall be
repaired as per the road use and maintenance agreement approved by the County
Commissioners.
      (1)   The Executive Director of the County Highway Department may choose
to require either remediation of road repairs upon completion of the project or
is authorized to collect fees for oversized load permits.
      (2)   A corporate surety bond in an amount to be fixed by a professional
engineer may be required by the Executive Director of the County Highway
Department to insure the county that future repairs are completed to the
satisfaction of the Board of Commissioners. The cost of bonding shall be paid
by the applicant.
   (B)   As-built plans requirement. Upon completion of all development, the
applicant, owner, or operator shall submit to the Building Commissioner a
complete set of as-built construction plans showing the exact measurements of
the location of all utilities and structures erected during the development, in
such quantities as shall reasonably be required for review by all appropriate
county reviewing agencies. After each reviewing agency has reviewed and
accepted the as-built drawings, and Building Commissioner is satisfied that the
measurements are substantially the same as indicated on the originally approved
final plan(s), the Building Commissioner shall approve, date and sign said as-
built construction plans for the project, which the applicant, owner, or
operator shall then record in the office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   Post-construction sound measurements.
      (1)   Within 12 months after issuance of a WECS inspection certificate,
and annually thereafter, the applicant, owner or operator of all WECS except
micro WECS shall submit a post-construction noise profile study which includes
sufficient information, including sound modeling and actual measurements, for
the Building Commissioner to verify, after consultation with a qualified
independent acoustical consultant retained by the county, that the WECS
continues to meet the requirements of §
161.09 of this chapter.
      (2)   Post-construction measurement methods will be based on good-
engineering practices and industry-recognized international standards for the
measurement of WTG noise emissions, (IEC 61400-11) when applicable.
      (3)   Post-construction sound measurements shall include measurements
taken:
         (a)   At a point within 25 feet of each non-participating landowner’s
dwelling or primary structure on a direct line between the dwelling or primary
structure and the nearest WECS Tower; and
         (b)   At the point on each non-participating landowner’s property line
which is closest to the nearest WECS Tower.
      (4)   Post-construction sound measurements shall be collected during
meteorological conditions which result in full electrical output of the WECS.
      (5)   If post-construction sound measurements of ambient noise (WECS
noise plus all non-WECS related noise) are less than or equal to the WECS-only
noise limits specified in § 161.09, the WECS will be in conformance with noise
limitations of this chapter. Otherwise, WECS-only noise levels may be
determined using practical acoustical measurement and/or analysis techniques
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Conducting measurements with all WTGs operating and then
immediately again with all WTGs locked-out, to estimate WECS-only noise levels;
         (b)   Use of spectral analysis techniques to estimate WECS-only noise
levels; and
         (c)   Use of acoustical models to propagate close-in WECS measurements
to far-field receiver locations, and the like.
      (6)   If the Building Commissioner determines, after consultation with a
qualified independent acoustical consultant retained by the county, that the
post-construction noise profile study fails to demonstrate continued compliance
with the requirements of §
161.09 of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall notify the owner or
operator of the failure in writing, and the owner or operator shall have 90
days to cure the failure and provide written documentation of compliance to the
Building Commissioner. If the Building Commissioner determines that an owner or
operator of the WECS has failed to take reasonable steps to remedy
noncompliance within 90 days, the Building Commissioner may order the owner or
operator of the WECS to take the actions as may be required to cure the
failure, including, but not limited to, curtailing operation of the WECS, or
components thereof, under the specific meteorological conditions which were in
existence at the time the actual measurements contained in the report were
taken, until the owner or operator has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Building Commissioner that it is in compliance with the standards set out in §
161.09 and §
161.10 regarding the issues raised in the post-construction noise profile
study.
         (a)   Any curtailment order shall specify the:
            1.   Hub height wind speed as measured at the WTG nearest to the
complainant;
            2.   Wind direction as measured at the WTG nearest to the
complainant;
            3.   Specific hour of the day (ranging from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.) or specific hour of the night (from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.); and
            4.   Days of the year for which curtailment applies.
         (b)   If curtailment does not return the WECS to compliance, the
Building Commissioner may revoke the owner or operators WECS inspection
certificate upon 15 days prior written notice thereof; provided however the
appeal rights set out in §
161.20 shall apply. An owner or operator whose WECS inspection certificate has
been revoked may apply for reinstatement of its WECS inspection certificate
after curing any compliance issues.
   (D)   Change in ownership. It is the responsibility of the owner or operator
listed in the application to inform the Building Commissioner of all changes in
ownership and operation during the life of the project, including the sale or
transfer of ownership or operation.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.16 FEES.
   (A)   Application fees. Wind energy conversion system (WECS) applicants
shall pay all costs associated with the review and processing of applications
for WECS construction permits and WECS inspection certificates by the county,
including without limitation the Board of Commissioners, Building Commissioner,
Economic Development Commission, Surveyor and Area Plan Commission. Applicants
shall submit a minimum application fee with the application in the amount set
forth in the County Building Code Fee Schedule, §
151A.04.
   (B)   Development fees. A one time or periodic fee and a requirement to
provide public works or services may be imposed as a condition of a commercial
WECS permit. Such fees shall be included in the economic development, drainage,
and road use and maintenance agreements required by §
161.13, and must be related to the public need created by the wind energy
development. Such fees may be used for, but are not limited to, providing and
maintaining road and drainage improvements and facilities required by the wind
energy development and establishing and operating a monitoring system to assure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.17 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, the
County Surveyor and the Executive Director of the County Highway Department or
their duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any wind
energy system, structure or premises in the county to performinspections to
assure compliance with all requirements of this chapter, the Unified Zoning
Ordinance and any conditions of any grant of a special exception.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.18 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing, served
on any person engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any
such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.19 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any wind
energy conversion system or structure, in the county or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no WECS Inspection Certificate shall be revoked
without 15 days prior written notice to applicant and applicant’s failure to
cure within 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.20 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner shall have
the right to appeal the decision to the Board of County Commissioners within 30
days after the decision. Any decision of the Board of County Commissioners
pursuant to the foregoing may be appealed in accordance with I.C. 32-2-2-27.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.21 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the Board of Commissioners
of the county, bring actions in the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any
provision of this chapter or any order or orders made by the Building
Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
§ 161.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGREGATED WECS PROJECT(S). A WECS located on two or more parcels or
properties as specified in an application for a WECS construction or inspection
certificate pursuant to this chapter.
   APPLICANT. The entity or person who submits to the county, an application
for the construction or operation of any WECS or substation or thereafter
operates or owns a WECS.
   EQUIVALENT NOISE LEVEL (Leq). A widely used noise parameter that calculates
a constant level of noise with the same energy content as the varying acoustic
noise signal being measured.
   EQUIVALENT NOISE LEVEL, A-WEIGHTED (LAeq). Equivalent continuous noise
level. The letter “A” denotes that A-weighting has been used.
   EQUIVALENT NOISE LEVEL, C-WEIGHTED (LCeq). Equivalent continuous noise
level. The letter “C” denotes that C-weighting has been used.
   EQUIVALENT NOISE LEVEL, A-WEIGHTED OR C-WEIGHTED, 1-HOUR (LAeq 1- Hour,LCeq,
1-Hour). Equivalent continuous noise level. The letter “A” denotes that A-
weighting has been used. The letter “C” denotes that C-weighting has been used.
One-hour denotes that the duration of the (LXeq) measurement is 1-hour.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE. Reasonable assurance from a creditworthy party,
examples of which include a surety bond, trust instrument, cash escrow, or
irrevocable letter of credit or combinations thereof.
   NON-PARTICIPATING LANDOWNER. The person, firm, corporation, trust or other
entity or entities with an equity interest in property contiguous to a WECS
project which is not a participating landowner.
   OPERATOR. The entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of a WECS, including any third party subcontractors.
   OWNER. The person, firm, corporation, trust or other entity or entities with
an equity interest in the WECS(s), including their respective successors and
assigns. OWNER does not mean (i) the property owner from whom land is leased
for locating the WECS (unless the property owner has an equity interest in the
WECS); or (ii) any person holding a security interest in the WECS(s) solely to
secure an extension of credit, or a person foreclosing on such security
interest provided that such person sells the WECS(s) within one year of such
foreclosure.
   PARTICIPATING LANDOWNER. A landowner upon whose land a WECS is constructed,
or who has contractually granted rights to an owner or developer with respect
to a WECS.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. For each property, the structure that one or more persons
occupy the majority of time on that property for either business or personal
reasons. PRIMARY STRUCTURE includes structures such as residences, commercial
buildings, hospitals, and day care facilities. PRIMARY STRUCTURE excludes
structures such as hunting sheds, storage sheds, pool houses, unattached
garages and barns.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed or registered
as a professional engineer in any state in the United States.
   QUALIFIED INDEPENDENT ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANT. A specialist with demonstrated
competence in the area of environmental acoustics obtained through academic
training or work experience with full membership in the Institute of Noise
Control Engineering (INCE), Acoustical Society of America (ASA), or National
Council of Acoustical Consultants, or equivalent credentials.
   SHADOW FLICKER. The condition which occurs when the blades of a wind turbine
pass between the sun and an observer, casting a readily observable, moving
shadow on the observer and his or her immediate environment.
   SHADOW FLICKER RECEPTOR. Any occupied structure, structure permitted for
construction, or roadway where the WECS may cause shadow flicker to occur.
   SUBSTATION. The apparatus that connects the electrical collection system of
the WECS(s) and increases the voltage for connection with the utility’s
transmission lines.
   SWEPT AREA. The diameter of the least circle encompassing all blades for a
WECS.
   SWITCHING STATION. An apparatus or structure in the system similar to a
substation but not necessarily increasing voltage into the grid.
   WECS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit issued by the Building Commissioner for
construction of a wind energy conversion system.
   WECS INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. The certificate issued by the Building
Commissioner to verify continued compliance with all requirements of this
chapter which were in effect when the original WECS construction permit for the
WECS or WECS project was issued
   WECS METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. A tower, the primary or predominant purpose of
which is to provide meteorological information in connection with the siting or
operation of a WECS.
   WECS PROJECT. Two or more WECS on a single property or aggregate properties
as specified in an application for a WECS construction or operating permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   WECS TOWER. The monopole, freestanding or guyed structure that supports the
energy capture, conversion, storage or transfer components of a WECS.
   WECS TOWER HEIGHT or TOTAL HEIGHT. The distance measured from the ground
level at the base of the WECS tower to the highest extension of the blades or
rotor.
   “WECS” WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. All necessary devices that together
convert wind energy into electricity and store or deliver that electricity to a
utility’s transmission lines, including but not limited to the rotor, nacelle,
generator, WECS tower, electrical components, WECS foundation, transformer, and
electrical cabling from the WECS tower, substation, wind farm collection
system, WECS meteorological towers, communications facilities and other
required facilities and equipment.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL WECS or LARGE WIND SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion
system which has a nameplate capacity (manufacturer’s rating) of more than 50
kilowatts per wind tower, or a total height of more than 140 feet, or a swept
area of more than 40 feet.
      (2)   NON-COMMERCIAL WECS or SMALL WIND SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion
system which has a nameplate capacity (manufacturer’s rating) of more than ten
kilowatts per wind tower and less than or equal to 50 kilowatts per windtower,
and a total height of more than 80 feet but less than or equal to 140 feet, and
a swept area of 40 feet or less.
      (3)   MICRO WECS. A wind energy conversion system designed to provide
electric power to a home or other local site for use by the owner, which has a
nameplate capacity (manufacturer’s rating) less than or equal to ten kilowatts
per windtower and a total height of 80 feet or less, or if building-mounted,
projects no more than 15 feet above the highest point of the roof.
(Ord. 2010-02-CM, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-24-CM, passed 2-21-11)
CHAPTER 162: PROHIBITION OF QUARRIES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
Section
   
162.01   Title
   
162.02   Purpose
   
162.03   Applicability
   
162.04   Quarries prohibited in residential areas
   
162.05   Stop order and injunctive relief
   
162.06   Violations
 
   
162.99   Penalty
§ 162.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Prohibition of Quarries in Residential
Areas.”
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
§ 162.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Whereas, quarrying and the processing of mineral resources should give
due regard to:
      (1)   The protection of the health, safety and general welfare of the
people;
      (2)   The prevention of stream pollution, water, air and land pollution;
and
      (3)   The prevention of negative impact to the county’s water supply and
other injurious effects to persons, property, and natural resources; and
   (B)   Whereas, the Board of Commissioners finds that, for the protection of
the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county and to
mitigate the negative impacts of quarrying on those citizens who reside
adjacent to or near such operations, it is reasonable and necessary to regulate
quarrying as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2104-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
§ 162.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter govern the construction and operation
of quarries in the county.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, QUARRY refers to a site where the area on or
beneath land is used in activity related to the extraction, removal, or
recovery of dimension stone or crushed and broken granite, crushed and broken
limestone, or other crushed and broken stone from natural deposits and includes
those activities classified under Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)
codes 1411, 1422, 1423, and 1429. The term does not refer to such activity
where limited to the extraction, removal, or recovery of sand or gravel.
   (C)   A person is prohibited from constructing, operating, or locating a
quarry in the county after June 16, 2014 without having fully complied with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter is intended to supplement regulations imposed by other
legal authority. Nothing in this chapter is intended to preempt other
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. Nor is anything
intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, or
regulation, statute, or other provision of law. In the event that any provision
of these regulations imposes restrictions different from any other ordinance,
rule, regulation, statute, or provision of law, the provisions that are more
restrictive or that impose higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
§ 162.04 QUARRIES PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   A person shall not construct or operate a quarry in the county if 100
or more residential homes are located within a two-mile radius of the quarry.
This provision shall not apply to quarries in operation prior to June 16, 2014.
   (B)   If a quarry complied with division (A) when construction on the quarry
began, construction and operation may continue even if additional residential
homes are subsequently added within the two-mile radius. However, if
construction or operation ceases for one year or more, then construction or
operation may not resume unless the quarry complies with the requirements of
division (A).
   (C)   Prior to beginning construction of a quarry or resuming construction
or operation of a quarry, the person intending to construct or operate a quarry
shall file a certification with the Board of Commissioners indicating that the
construction does not violate division (A).
   (D)   For purposes of division (B), the date construction begins shall be
regarded as the later of:
      (1)   The date actual substantial work begins on constructing the quarry;
or
      (2)   The date a certification is filed under division (C).
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.05 STOP ORDER AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Whenever work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the Board of Commissioners may order the work stopped by notice in
writing, served on any person engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Board of Commissioners to proceed with the work. All persons aggrieved by a
stop order issued by the Board of Commissioners under this division (A) shall
have the right to have the order reviewed by the Board. The petition for review
must be filed within 30 days of the order. Any decision of the Board of County
Commissioners pursuant to such a review petition may be appealed in accordance
with I.C. 32-2-2-27.
   (B)   A person with an interest in real property within a two-mile radius of
the quarry may apply to the Circuit or Superior Court of Tippecanoe County for
injunctive relief under this chapter. The Board of Commissioners may also apply
for injunctive relief. Injunctive relief may be pursued under this division (B)
regardless of whether a stop order has been issued under division (A).
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
§ 162.06 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee, or occupant, to construct or operate a quarry or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
§ 162.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the availability of injunctive relief, a person who violates
this chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
(Ord. 2014-08-CM, passed 7-7-14)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
         
II.   LEASES
         
III.   VACATIONS
         
IV.   ZONING CHANGES
TABLE I: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Agreement between the Board of Commissioners of
                            Tippecanoe County and in behalf of the Tippecanoe
                            County Emergency Ambulance Service (TEAS) and
77-19           7-18-77     Purdue University in behalf of the Purdue
                            University Fire Department Ambulance Service
                            (PUFD), and approved by Home Hospital and St.
                            Elizabeth Hospital
                            Consenting to the terms of the Local Health
87-45-CL        12-8-87     Maintenance Interlocal Agreement between the
                            county, the City of Lafayette and the City of West
                            Lafayette
1996-62-CL      12-10-96    Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement
                            for the investment of public funds
96-63-CM        12-16-96    Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement
                            for the investment of public funds
                            Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the City
Res. 99-03-CL   1-12-99     of Lafayette, City of West Lafayette, County of
                            Tippecanoe and the Area Plan Commission
                            Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the City
Res. 99-02-CM   - -99       of Lafayette, City of West Lafayette, County of
                            Tippecanoe and the Area Plan Commission
                            Authorizing the renewal of the interlocal
                            cooperative agreement among the Cities of Lafayette
Res. 2002-24-CM 6-17-02     and West Lafayette, the Town of Battle Ground, and
                            the County of Tippecanoe, to continue to act as a
                            consortium to be eligible to receive HOME funds for
                            the 2003 fiscal year
                            Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the City
Res. 2007-24-CM 11-5-07     of Lafayette, City of West Lafayette, County of
                            Tippecanoe and the Area Plan Commission
                            Authorizing President of County Council to
Res. 2007-25-CL 11-13-07    acknowledge the interlocal agreement with Cities of
                            Lafayette and West Lafayette, County of Tippecanoe
                            and the Area Plan Commission of Tippecanoe County
                            Approving an interlocal agreement between
                            Tippecanoe County, the City of Lafayette, the City
                            of West Lafayette, the Town of Battleground, the
Res. 2009-03-CL 1-13-09     Town of Dayton, the trustees of Purdue University
                            and the trustees of Ivy Tech Community College of
                            Indiana for the implementation of NPDES Phase II
                            Storm Water Quality Management Plan
                            Approving an interlocal agreement between
Res. 2009-04-CL 1-13-09     Tippecanoe County and the City of West Lafayette
                            for the construction of improvements to Lindberg
                            Road
Res. 2010-07-CM 2-1-10      Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement
                            for the investment of public funds
Res. 2010-10-CL 2-9-10      Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement
                            for the investment of public funds
Res. 2013-32-CM 11-18-13    Establishing interlocal agreement for exchange of
                            computer storage space
Res. 2013-33-CM 12-2-13     Approving the entry into an interlocal agreement
                            for the purchase of traffic counting equipment
                            Acknowledging/agreeing to terms and conditions of
Res. 2013-34-CM 12-10-13    interlocal agreement for the purchase of traffic
                            counting equipment
                            Authorizing the President of the Board of
                            Commissioners to enter into an interlocal agreement
Res. 2017-30-CM 10-2-17     with the City of Lafayette, City of West Lafayette,
                            County of Tippecanoe County and the Area Plan
                            Commission of Tippecanoe County
                            Authorizing the President of the County Council to
                            acknowledge the interlocal agreement with the City
Res. 2017-31-CL 10-10-17    of Lafayette, City of West Lafayette, County of
                            Tippecanoe County and the Area Plan Commission of
                            Tippecanoe County
                            Approving an interlocal agreement with the City of
Res. 2018-30-CM 9-17-18     Lafayette and the City of West Lafayette concerning
                            low cost spay and neutering services
                            Assigning an area within the county to the
                            Redevelopment Commission of the Town of Battle
Res. 2019-28-CM 10-7-19     Ground, Indiana for the purpose of the allocation
                            of property tax proceeds and addressing matters
                            related thereto
                            Amending the assignment of an area within the
Res. 2019-30-CM 10-21-19    county to the Redevelopment Commission of the Town
                            of Battle Ground, Indiana for the purpose of the
                            allocation of property tax proceeds
                           
 
TABLE II: LEASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
Res. 87-1BA        10-20-87    Executing a lease on behalf of the County
                               Building Authority
Res. 87-16-CM      10-20-87    Executing a lease on behalf of the County
                               Building Authority
                               Declaration of official intent to execute
Res. 2002-17-CM    4-1-02      equipment leases for 285 AccuTouch Screen R6
                               Voter Stations, software
                               Approving proposed addendum to lease agreement
                               with Eastside Square, LLC, for the lease of
Res. 2002-27-CL    8-13-02     office facilities located at 117 North 14th
                               Street, Lafayette, Indiana, for County Court
                               Services programs
                               Authorizing execution of proposed lease with
Res. 2003-08-CM    1-22-03     R.J. Ross, Inc., as lessor, to provide necessary
                               facilities for County Juvenile Alternatives
                               program
                               Approving proposed lease agreement with R.J.
Res. 2003-09-CL    2-11-03     Ross, Inc., as lessor, to provide office space
                               and facilities for County Juvenile Alternatives
                               program
                               Approving lease agreement with Bank One Leasing
Res. 2003-19-CL    6-2-03      Corporation for provision of a multi-site Astro
                               simulcast 800 megahertz trunked public safety
                               radio system for county E911 programs
Res. 2005-39-CM    12-19-05    Approving lease agreement with Caterpillar
                               Financial Services Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of lease with YWCA Greater
Res. 2008-15-CM    4-7-08      Lafayette for facilities for county FOCUS
                               programs
                               Approving lease agreement with YWCA Greater
Res. 2008-16-CL    4-8-08      Lafayette for office space and facilities for
                               county FOCUS programs
                               Approving lease agreement with Caterpillar
Res. 2009-06-CM    1-20-09     Financial Services Corporation for certain
                               equipment
                               Approving amendment no. 1 to lease agreement
Res. 2011-45-CM    -5-11       with Tippecanoe County Governmental Building
                               Corporation
Res. 2013-04-CM    - -         Approving equipment lease agreement with
                               Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation
                               Approving form of lease of office space for
Res. 2013-05-CM    - -         Women, Infants and Children program with Purdue
                               Research Foundation
                               Authorizing lease of office space for Women,
Res. 2013-09-CM  2-19-13     Infants and Children program with Purdue
                               Research Foundation
                               Approving lease of office space for Women,
Res. 2013-10-CL    3-12-13     Infants and Children program with Purdue
                               Research Foundation
Res. 2013-31-CM    11-18-13    Authorizing entry into equipment lease-purchase
                               agreement
Res. 2014-26-CM    11-17-14    Approving lease of E911 communication system
                               equipment with Motorola Solutions, Inc.
                               Approving lease-purchase agreement for E911
Res. 2014-27-CM    11-17-14    communication system equipment with Motorola
                               Solutions, Inc.
Res. 2016-31-CM    11-21-16    Approving a lease-purchase agreement with TFC
                               Equipment Finance, for certain personal property
Res. 2017-37-CL    12-12-17    Approving lease of facilities
Res. 2017-39-CM    12-27-17    Authorizing equipment lease-purchase agreement
                               with Regions Equipment Finance Corporation
Res. 2018-5-CM     1-16-18     Approving execution of lease for the Tippecanoe
                               County Office of Women, Infants and Children
Res. 2020-31-CL    12-8-20     Approving the public library's entrance into a
                               master tax-exempt lease/purchase agreement
                               Adopting a resolution making a preliminary
Res. 2021-06-CM    2-17-21     determination to enter into a build-operate-
                               transfer lease agreement
Res. 2021-14-CM    5-3-21      Authorizing equipment lease-purchase agreement
                               with Key Government Finance, Inc.
Res. 2021-15-CM    5-3-21   Authorizing master tax-exempt lease/purchase
                               agreement with U.S. Bank equipment finance
                              
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
77-4  3-14-  Vacating a portion of a dedicated street along the west edge of the Sam Wilson
      77     Subdivision in Wea Township
      7-25-  Vacating all of the alley running between Lots 18 and 19 and all of the alley
77-20 77     running between lots 17 to 20, inclusive and Lots 29 to 32 inclusive in the
             Original Plat of the Town of Concord, Lauramie Township
      3-26-  Vacating certain roadways being part of the North Half of the Fractional
79-9  79     Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 23 North, Range 5 West in Wayne
             Township
79-30 10-22- Vacating a portion of Cypress Street in the Town of Stockwell, Lauramie
      79     Township
80-2- 2-25-  Vacating a portion of County Road 50 West
CM    80
81-8  4-20-  Vacating a portion of County Highway 680 South in Sheffield Township in the
      81     area commonly known as Catfish Bay
81-14 10-19- Vacating a portion of Old Romney Road right-of-way located in Wea Township
      81
82-9  5-24-  Vacating a portion of Marion Street located in the Plat of Americus, Washington
      82     Township
82-10 5-24-  Vacating a portion of Wayne Street located in the Plat of Americus, Washington
      82     Township
82-19 10-18- Vacating a portion of an alley located in Buck Creek, Washington Township
      82
83-3  4-4-83 Vacating a portion of Wake Robin Drive and Peregrine Court
84-3  2-6-84 Vacating a strip of land 10 feet in even width, five feet on each side of the
             Southwest corner of lot 83 in Capilano Estates, Wabash Township
84-5  3-19-  Vacating a portion of Cherry Street on the east side of Mikel Street
      84
14-   9-16-  Vacating the east-west alley lying west of Main Street and between lots 14 and
85-CM 85     15 in the Town of Columbia, now called Romney, in Randolph Township
86-   10-20- Vacating Cherry Street in the town of Romney
22-CM 86
             Vacating Wayne Street from Columbia Street to Main Street and the alley
87-   10-19- adjoining Lots 43, 44, 45, 46, 38, 37, 35 and 36 from Clinton Street to Wayne
33-CM 87     Street between Main Street and Columbia Street in the original plat of the Town
             of Americus in Washington Township
87-   10-19- Vacating a portion of Elm Street in the town of Granville
34-CM 87
87-   11-16- Vacating a strip of land 40 feet in width and being parallel with and 20 feet
38-CM 87     on each side of the line between Section 1 and Section 6 and extending south
             from the existing south boundary of County Road 200
87-   12-7-  Vacating a portion of Short Street in Lauramie Township
39-CM 87
87-   12-7-  Vacating a portion of Suburban Street from Lauramie Street to Park Street in
40-CM 87     Lauramie Township
87-   12-7-  Vacating an alley located in the Town of Stockwell running north and south
41-CM 87     between College and Church Streets which run east and west and Forest and Oak
             Streets which run parallel with the alley
             Vacating a part of the Northeast Quarter Section 19, Township 23 North, Range 3
88-3- 1-18-  West 2nd p.m. Perry Township, being all the land at the junction of County
CM    88     Roads 100 North and 550 East, which lies north and west of the currently
             traveled roadway
22-   6-6-88 Vacating all of Washington Street adjacent to Lot 90 in the Town of Americus
88-CM
88-   10-17- Vacating a part of Elm Street in the Town of Granville
33-CM 88
90-   12-31- Vacating a portion of an easement on Lot 7, Capilano by the Lake Subdivision,
25-CM 90     Wabash Township
92-   10-19- Vacating a portion of County Road 50 East and 375 South (amended by Ord. 95-46-
20-CM 92     CM)
93-   12-6-  Vacating a portion of an easement on Lot 5, Capilano by the Lake Subdivision,
28-CM 93     phase one
93-   12-27- Vacating a public way in the town of Stockwell
30-CM 93
94-   2-7-94 Vacating a public way in the unincorporated area of Concord
05-CM
94-   2-22-  Vacating part of Madison Street in the town of Buck Creek
06-CM 94
94-   5-2-94 Vacating a portion of an easement in Jay-Bee Subdivision in Perry Township
13-CM
94-   8-1-94 Vacating an easement in part of Lot 61 in Brookfield Heights Subdivision, Perry
34-CM        Township
94-          Vacating an easement on the southeasterly side of Lot 8 in River Bluffs
40-CM 9-6-94 Subdivision extending from 20 feet northwesterly of the northeasterly line of
             Lot 8 to the northeasterly line of Greenview Drive in Tippecanoe Township
94-   12-19- Vacating a publicly dedicated alley 16.5 feet in width extending from U.S.
57-CM 94     Highway 52 southwesterly to the Northeast right-of-way to Fayette Street, in
             the Town of Monroe, Lauramie Township
95-   3-6-95 Vacating a portion of a 6-foot utility, drainage and cable TV easement in
22-CM        Fairfield Township
95-          Vacating a 10 foot by 264 foot alley surrounded by lots 31 and 34 and lots 30
24-CM 4-3-95 and 35 and the property lines of same in the town of Monroe, located in
             Lauramie Township
95-   4-3-95 Vacating an alley/easement in the town of West Point (amended by Ord. 95-56-CM)
25-CM
95-   7-17-  Vacating a tract of land consisting of a series of unimproved alleys and
36-CM 95     streets in William Digby’s first addition of the town of Americus
95-   9-5-96 Correcting legal description of Ord. 92-20-CM
46-CM
95-   11-20- Correcting legal description of Ord. 95-25-CM
56-CM 95
96-   2-5-96 Vacating Wabash Street in the town of Buck Creek
22-CM
97-   7-17-  Vacating a portion of an easement in Cedar Ridge Heights Subdivison, Fairfield
30-CM 97     Township, located on Sugar Maple Court
98-   2-17-  Vacating an easement along lots 35 and 36, Capilano by the Lake Subdivision,
06-CM 98     Wabash Township
98-   6-15-  Vacating a public way beginning at a point 10 feet east of the Northeast corner
31-CM 98     of lot 8 in George H. Oglebay’s addition to the Town of Romney
98-   7-6-98 Vacating a portion of Valley Street in the unincorporated town of Buck Creek,
37-CM        Washington Township
98-   7-6-98 Vacating a portion of Patterson Street and a certain unimproved alley in the
38-CM        unincorporated town of Monroe, Lauramie Township
98-   9-8-98 Vacating a street and alley commencing at the Southeast corner of Lot 6 in the
48-CM        Addition to Americus
99-   3-15-  Vacating all utility and drainage easements located within the right-of-way of
10-CM 99     Bethel Drive, Brindon Woods Planned Unit Development
99-   3-15-  An easement platted as a strip ten feet of even width off the entire Southeast
11-CM 99     and Southwest side of Lot 3 in Hide-A-Way Subdivision; located in Wabash
             Township
99-   6-21-  Vacating a portion of the easement across the real estate more particularly
27-CM 99     described as Lot 67, Green Meadows Subdivision, Part IV, in Wabash Township
99-   6-21-  Vacating an easement of 5 feet in even width along the entire east side of Lot
28-CM 99     6 in Lakevilla Subdivision, Part 1, Phase 2, Wabash Township
2000- 4-3-00 Vacating a street and alley beginning at the Northwest corner of Lot 9 in the
21-CM        Town of Americus
2000-        Vacating the public way along and across part of the Northwest Quarter and part
41-CM 6-5-00 of the Southwest Quarter of Section 12 in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea
             Township
2000- 6-19-  Vacating two public ways known as West Street and Wabash Street in Granville
42-CM 00
2000- 12-18- Vacating a public way, plotted as a strip 40 feet of even width and 132 feet of
81-CM 00     even length between lots numbered 3 and 4 of Jacob H. Chapman’s first addition
             to Chapmanville, now Colburn, located in Washington Township
2001- 2-20-  Vacating that portion of a public way 14 feet of N/W side of Oak Street,
06-CM 01     adjacent to Lot 7 in Block 6 of the original plat of the town of Stockwell, IN
2001- 8-20-  Vacating a part of the Concannons Addition and Butts Addition to the original
23-CM 01     plat of Section 30, Township 23N Range 5W, Wayne Township.
2002- 5-13-  Vacating a portion of Swisher Road in Burnetts Reserve No. 4, Township 24
19-CM 02     North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township.
2003- 2-19-  Vacating a part of Old Eisenhower Road in the West Half of the Southeast
05-CM 03     Quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, in Fairfield Township
             Vacating the following public way: (a) the undeveloped alley on the east side
2003-        of Main Street (CR 350 East), between Lots 2 and 3; (b) Elm Street abutting the
12-CM 3-3-03 southern property line of Lot 21, beginning at Main Street (CR 350 East) and
             ending on the eastern side of Lot 28; (c) the alley running between Lots 17-20,
             29-32 until Main Crop Street
2003- 3-3-03 Vacating platted easement in Lot 7 in Winding Creek Subdivision, Section 1
13-CM
             Vacating alleyway (right-of-way) abutting the southern edge of Lots 32 through
             35 in Robert H. Wagoner's Addition to the Town of Colburn proceeding south to
2003- 7-7-03 the northern edge of Lots 20 through 23 in Robert H. Wagoner's Addition to the
31-CM        Town of Colburn and proceeding eastward from the east boundary of Virginia
             Street in Colburn, Indiana to the west boundary of Church Street in Colburn,
             Indiana
             Vacating all drainage and utility easements located within Lots 13, 16 and 18
2003- 7-7-03 of River Bluffs Subdivision, Part One, as per the plat thereof, recorded on
32-CM        October 12, 1971, in Plat Record Book 13, Page 10, in the Office of the
             Recorder of Tippecanoe County, Indiana
             Vacating that certain drainage, utility and access easement, platted as 50 feet
             as follows: 50 feet off the entire south side of Lot 28 in Willowood East
2003- 7-21-  Subdivision Part IV Phase Two as platted upon a part of the northwest quarter
37-CM 03     of Section 12, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township (which
             includes 25 feet off of the north side of the property currently owned by
             Petitioner and 25 feet off of the south side of the property currently owned by
             James and Susan Kotterman)
2003- 11-17- Vacating the public way along and across the following described real estate:
46-CM 03     Indiana Vocational Technical College Parcel 8 and City of Lafayette Parcel 9
2004- 1-12-  Vacating County Road 550 East from CR 100 South/Frontage Road south to the end
03-CM 04     of CR 550 East
             Vacating the west ten feet of the 20-foot drainage and utility easement located
2004- 9-20-  on the east side of Lot 208 as shown on the final plat of Hadley Moors
35-CM 04     Subdivision, Part 5, Phase 2 as recorded as Document Number 04005011 and in
             Plat Cabinet 7, Slide 115 in the Tippecanoe County Recorder's Office
2004- 11-1-  Vacating a drainage and utility easement on a part of Lot 140 of the Winding
37-CM 04     Creek Subdivision, Section One as recorded in Plat Cabinet 7, Page 13 in the
             Tippecanoe County Recorder's Office
2005- 7-18-  Vacating the side yard utility and drainage easements located on Lot 198 and
25-CM 05     Lot 199 in The Retreat at Hickory Ridge Planned Development.
2005-        Vacating a certain portion of Darlington Street and Fayette Street and a
37-CM 9-6-05 certain unimproved alley in the unincorporated town of Monroe, Lauramie
             Township.
             Vacating public ways and easements: Twilight Drive adjacent to Lots 12 and 59
2006- 8-21-  in the Mystic Woods Subdivision; Hailstorm Drive, Starhaven Drive and Twilight
18-CM 06     Drive in Phase 2 of the Mystic Woods Subdivision; the platted utility and
             drainage easements in Phase 2 of the Mystic Woods Subdivision.
2006- 9-25-  Vacating part of Section 4 in Burnett's Reserve, located in Township 24 North,
22-CM 06     Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township.
2007- 3-5-07 Vacating part of the northeast quarter of Section 15, Township 23 North, Range
13-CM        5 West.
2007- 4-2-07 Vacating a portion of the Treece Meadows Relief Drain Easement.
16-CM
2008- 3-17-  Vacating right-of-way in Shelby Township granted to county in the Final Plat of
08-CM 08     Applewood Subdivision, Section 2.
2008- 5-19-  Vacating the remaining unvacated portion of Lafayette Street in the Town of
11-CM 08     Americus running in a northerly direction from State Road 25 to the previously
             vacated section of said Lafayette Street.
             Vacating the alley located in the Town of Concord between Lots 18 and 19,
             starting at the southwest corner of Lot 19 going 16.5 feet south to the
2009- 11-2-  northwest corner of Lot 18, then running east 165 feet. The alley then
22-CM 09     continues to the northeast corner of Lot 18 going north 16.5 feet to the
             southeast corner of Lot 19. Alley then goes west 165 feet to the point of
             beginning.
2010- 9-7-10 Vacating Connor's Deerwood SD Lot 1 and Connor's Deerwood SD Lot 2.
19-CM
2011- 6-20-  Vacating the alley which lies between Lots 24, 25, 40 and 41 in Monroe,
14-CM 11     Lauramie Township.
2011- 11-7-  Vacating the public way, Sycamore Street, which lies between Lots 5, 6, 13 and
25-CM 11     14 in the town of Granville, Wayne Township.
             Vacating part of Patterson Street located on the northeast lines of Lots 5, 6,
             7, and 8 and the east line of Lots 9 and 10 from Columbia Street south to
             Lauramie Street; and part of Lauramie Street located on the southeast lines of
             Lots 10 and 11 from Patterson Street southwest to U.S. Route 52; and part of an
             unimproved alley running between and contiguous with Lots 6, 7, 14, and 15 from
             Patterson Street southwest to U.S. Route 52; and part of an unimproved alley
             running between and contiguous with Lots 8, 9, 12, and 13 from Patterson Street
2012- 6-4-12 southwest to U.S. Route 52; and part of Darlington Street located on the
19-CM        southwest lines of Lots 39, 40, and 41, from the northwest line of Lot 41 and
             running southeast to the northwest edge of Columbia Street; and part of
             Darlington Street located on the southwest lines of Lots 37 and 38 from the
             southeast edge of Columbia Street southeast to the northwest line of Lot 36;
             and part of an unimproved alley running between and contiguous with Lots 28,
             29, 36, and 37 from Darlington Street northeast to U.S. Route 52; and part of
             Lauramie Street located on the southeast lines of Lots 32 and 33 from U.S.
             Route 52 southwest to Darlington Street.
13-   5-6-13 Vacating right-of-way of two sections (Old CR 450 N ROW - east and west
17-CM        portions) of old County Road 450 North.
             Vacating certain portions of Basin, Canal, Fulton, Harrison, Johnson, Wabash,
2013- 7-1-13 Wallace, Walnut, and Water Streets and Ridge Road and certain other streets and
20-CM        parts of the public square and certain unimproved alleys in Americus,
             Washington Township.
2013- 6-7-13 Vacating County Road 800 North, located between the east right-of-way line of
21-CM        County Road 1000 East and the west right-of-way line of State Road 25.
2013- 10-7-  Vacating a portion of the public way in Winding Creek Subdivision, Phase 4, in
27-CM 13     Section 29, Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township.
2013- 11-4-  Vacating portions of unimproved streets (Mulberry and Pearl Streets) in West
31-CM 13     Point, Wayne Township.
2015- 2-2-15 Vacating a portion of a public right-of-way located on Railroad Street.
04-CM
2015- 3-3-15 Vacating a utility and drainage easement located in Lots 2 and 3 in Prophet’s
06-CM        View Subdivision.
2015- 6-11-  Vacating a part of the southwest quarter of Section 18, Township 22 North,
11-CM 15     Range 4 West, Wea Township.
2015- 11-16- Vacating Main Crop Street, running between and contiguous with Lots 16, 17, 32,
25-CM 15     33, 40, and 41 in the plat of the town of Concord.
             Vacating part of Poplar Street lying south of the north line of Main Crop
2015- 12-7-  Street together with that portion of all street and alleys lying south of the
26-CM 15     north line of Main Crop Street and west of the west line of the O’Connell real
             estate recorded in instrument number 201010008580.
2016- 2-1-16 Vacating a public way containing approximately 0.06 acres, and located in part
04-CM        of Lot 65 in Mason’s Ridge Subdivision.
2016-        Vacating a portion of a public way, being the Swisher Road right-of-way,
07-CM 3-7-16 located in sections 4 and 5 in Burnett’s Reserve, Township 24 North, Range 4
             West.
2016- 7-5-16 Vacating a utility and drainage easement located in Lots 254 and 255 in Connors
10-CM        Minor Subdivision.
2019- 7-15-  Vacating a right-of-way in the southeast fractional quarter of Section 10,
18-CM 19     Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe County, Fairfield Township,
             containing 0.6460 acres.
2021- 11-15- Vacating a portion of a platted easement in the county.
32-CM 21
2023- 5-15-  Vacating a platted drainage easement in the county.
08-CM 23
            
 
TABLE IV: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date     Description
           Passed
97-52-CM   12-1-97  Rezoning certain real estate, being the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest
                    Quarter of Section 15, Township 24, Range 4, containing 20 acres, from R-1 to A
97-53-CM   12-1-97  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of Section 2, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township, from R- 3 to GB
98-01-CM   1-5-98   Rezoning certain real estate being a part of the Northeast Fractional Quarter of
                    Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, from R-1 to I-3
98-04-CM   2-2-98   Rezoning certain real estate from R-3 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing in all 226.309 acres, more or less, in
98-08-CM   3-3-98   Section 7 and 55.301 acres, more or less, in Section 8, both in Township 22
                    North, Range 3 West, and located in Sheffield Township, from A to I-3
98-10-CM   3-2-98   Rezoning certain real estate known as the Steele Land Trust No. 76-01 - West Side
                    I-65 Petition - 55.22 acres from A to I-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate being a part of 69 acres off of the North side of
98-14-CM   - - 98   the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 2, in Township 23 North, Range 4
                    West, beginning at the Northwest corner of Northbrook Subdivision, from A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 4.256 acres, being a part of the
98-16-CM   5-4-98   Northwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township,
                    from AW to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 3.686 acres, being part of the Northwest
98-17-CM   5-4-98   Quarter of Section 7, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from AW to
                    R-3
98-18-CM   5-4-98   Rezoning certain real estate, being known as Kyger Bakery property SR 38 East,
                    Lafayette, from GB to I-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, containing 32.44 acres, being a part of the
98-19-CM   5-4-98   Northeast Quarter Section 35 Township 24 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township,
                    from OR to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate being Lot 44 and Fractional Lot 4 in John Austins’s
98-24-CM   6-1-98   Subdivision of Patton’s Out Lots to the City of Lafayette, and part of the South
                    Half of lot 5 in David Patton’s Out Lots to the Town of Lafayette, from R-1 to R-
                    2
                    Rezoning certail real estate being all that part of the South Half of lot 5 in
98-25-CM   6-1-98   David Patton’s Out Lots to the Town of Lafayette on the East Half of the South
                    West Quarter of Section 32, in Township 23 North, Range 4 West, lying North
                    Easterly of the public highway running through said lot, from R-1 to R-1B
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the West fraction of the Northwest
98-26-CM   6-1-98   Quarter of Section 7, in Township 22 North, Range 3 West, and a part of the East
                    Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 12, in Township 22 North, Range 4 West,
                    from A to I-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the West Half of the Northwest
98-28-CM   6-1-98   Quarter of Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township,
                    containing 1.456 acres, from R-1 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being 10 acres in Wabash Township, beginning at a
98-34-CM   7-6-98   point 338.6 feet South of the Northwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of
                    Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, from OR to A
98-35-CM   7-6-98   Rezoning certain real estate, being parts of Lots 1 and 2 in Smith - Rohler
                    Subdivision, Fairfield Township, from R-1 to A
98-40-CM   8-3-98   Rezoning certain real estate, being 5.977 acres in Wea Township, from R-3 to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Northeast
98-42-CM   9-8-98   Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R-
                    1 to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the West Half of Longlois
98-45-CM   9-8-98   Reservatiion, containing .45 of an acre located in Fairfield Township, from I-
                    3 to GB
98-46-CM   9-8-98   Rezoning certain real estate, located at 3005 Main Street, Lafayette, Indiana,
                    from I-3 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being Sections 1, 3, 10, and 11, Township 23 North,
98-49-CM   9-5-98   Range 5 West and Sections 35 and 36, Township 24 North, Range 5 West, in Wabash
                    Township, from OR to R-1, R-3, OR, GB, I-1, I-3, and A
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section
98-52-CM   11-2-98  11, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, containing 5.848 acres,
                    from R-1 to A
98-53-CM   11-2-98  Rezoning certain real estate, being two tracts in Graves Subdivision, Tippecanoe
                    Township, from A to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 2,
99-01-CM   1-6-99   Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, containing 2.44 acres, from R-
                    1 to R-3
99-02-CM   2-1-99   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 1,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R-1 and I-3 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being part of the South Half of the Northwest
99-03-CM   2-1-99   Fractional Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Second
                    Principal Meridian, Wabash Township, from NB to GB
99-04-CM   2-1-99   Rezoning certain real estate, containing 8.766 acres, being part of Section 27,
                    Township 24 North, Range 4 West in Tippecanoe Township, from Agriculture to R-1
99-05-CM   2-1-99   Rezoning certain real estate in Wabash Township from R-1 to A
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 54.20 acres, being a part of the
99-12-CM   4-5-99   Northeast Quarter of Section 8 and the Northwest Quarter of Section 9, Township
                    22 North, Range 3 West, Sheffield Township, from A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 2.548 acres, being a part of the West
99-13-CM   4-5-99   Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, and
                    part of Lots 2 and 3 in the partition of Levi Hawkins Estate in Fairfield
                    Township, from R-3 to I-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 12.18 acres, being part of the Southwest
99-19-CM   5-3-99   Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from A
                    to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wea Township, being a part of the
99-21-CM   5-3-99   Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, from A and R-1 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate situated in Perry Township, being a part of the West
99-22-CM   6-7-99   Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West from
                    AW to PDRS
99-25-CM   6-7-99   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Fairfield Township being a part of the
                    Daniel C. Terry and Beth Ann Terry real estate, from R-1 to I-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate containing 345.2571 acres situated in Wea Township
99-26-CM   6-7-99   being a part of the West Half of Section 25 and the East Half of Section 26,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, from A to PDMX
99-32-CM   8-2-99   Rezoning certain real estate, being two tracts in Washington Township, from A to
                    PDRS
99-33-CM   8-19-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being 2.39 acres in Wea Township from R-1 to I-3
99-34-CM   8-19-99  Rezoning certain real estate being two tracts in Shelby Township from AW to R-1
99-35-CM   8-2-99   Rezoning certain real estate containing 1.39 acres situated in Wea Township from
                    R-1 to GB
99-37-CM   9-8-99   Rezoning certain real estate being 10 acres situated in Wabash Township, from R-
                    1 to PDMX
99-38-CM   9-8-99   Rezoning certain real estate containing 0.508 acre situated in Wea Township, from
                    R-1 to GB
99-39-CM   10-4-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being two tracts situated in Wea Township, from R-
                    1 to GB
99-40-CM   10-4-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being 0.97 acre situated in Wea Township, from R-
                    1 to GB
99-45-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Purdue Research Foundation real
                    estate, from R-1 and NB to R-3
99-46-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being part of the Purdue Research Foundation real
                    estate from NB to GB
99-48-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, in Wea Township, from R-1 to GB
99-49-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from A to R-2
99-50-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from A to R-3
99-51-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30,
                    Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from AW to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section
99-52-CM   11-1-99  30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 9.48 acres, from
                    AW to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
99-53-CM   11-1-99  30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, together with a part of the Southwest
                    Quarter of Section 29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, all in Perry Township,
                    containing a total of 143.63 acres, from A to R-1B
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the North Half of Section 31,
99-54-CM   11-1-99  Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 69.30 acres, from A
                    to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32,
99-55-CM   11-1-99  Township 23 North, Range 3 West, together with a part of the Southwest Quarter of
                    Section 29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, all in Perry Township, containing
                    83.88 acres, from A to R-1B
99-56-CM   11-1-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, containing 36.99 acres, from A to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
99-57-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 10.96 acres, from
                    A to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
99-58-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 6.45 acres, from
                    A to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
99-59-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 25.16 acres, from
                    A to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
99-60-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 10.70 acres, from
                    A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
99-61-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 14.12 acres, from
                    A to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the North Half of Section 29,
99-62-CM   11-1-99  Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 178.97 acres, from AW
                    to R-1B
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section
99-63-CM   11-1-99  29, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, containing 40.59 acres, from
                    AW to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 7
99-68-CM   12-6-99  Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, containing 4.744 acres, from R-
                    1 to OR
99-69-CM   12-6-99  Rezoning certain real estate, known as CJB Enterprises Planned Development,
                    containing 22.318 acres, from R-3 to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a portion of the Official Zoning Map of
99-70-CM   12-6-99  Tippecanoe Township at the Northeast corner of the 1-65 and SIR 43 interchange,
                    from LB to HB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section
99-71-CM   12-6-99  20, Township 22 North, Range 4 West of the Second Principal Meridian in Wea
                    Township, containing 10.368 acres from A to R-1A
99-72-CM   12-6-99  Rezoning certain real estate, being the property commonly known as 1165 South
                    Creasy Lane, Lafayette, from R-1 to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of Section 3 in Burnett's Reservation
2000-02-CM 1-3-00   below the mouth of Tippecanoe River in Township 24 North, Range 4 West of the
                    Second Principal Meridian, Tippecanoe Township from R-1 and A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of Section 2 and part
2000-03-CM 1-3-00   of Section 1 all in Burnett’s Reserve, Township 24 North, Range 3 West,
                    Tippecanoe Township, from R-1 to PDRS
2000-06-CM 2-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being two parcels in Randolph Township, from NB to
                    GB
2000-08-CM 2-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 12
                    in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R-1 to GB
2000-09-CM 2-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being 5 tracts situated in Perry Township, from R-
                    1B to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2000-10-CM 3-6-00   10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West in Wabash Township, containing 21.86 acres,
                    from A to NB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter and part of
2000-11-CM 3-6-00   the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North Range 5 West in Wabash
                    Township, containing 40.54 acres, from A to R-1B
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2000-12-CM 3-6-00   10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West in Wabash Township, containing 47.55 acres,
                    from A to R-1
2000-13-CM 2-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Purdue Research Foundation real
                    estate in Wabash Township, containing 3.935 acres, from R-1 to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Purdue Research Foundation real
2000-14-CM 2-7-00   estate situated in Wabash Township, containing 7.266 acres, from R-1 and NB to R-
                    3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2000-16-CM 3-6-00   10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West in Wabash Township, containing 24.99 acres,
                    from A to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2000-17-CM 3-6-00   10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West in Wabash Township, containing 45.84 acres,
                    from A to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the West Half of Section 18,
2000-18-CM 3-6-00   Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, containing 27.177 acres, from R-
                    1 to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of Section 1,
2000-19-CM 3-6-00   Township 24 North, Range 3 West, Washington Township, containing 29.247 acres,
                    from I-3 to A
2000-20-CM 3-6-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being three tracts in Wabash Township, from A to R-
                    3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the South Half of the Northeast
2000-23-CM 4-3-00   Quarter of Section 35, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, located in Fairfield
                    Township, containing 21.31 acres, from R-1B to PDRS
2000-24-CM 4-3-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section
                    14, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R-2 to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being all that real estate conveyed to C. J. & E.
2000-25-CM 4-3-00   M. John in deed record 181 page 482, and E. M. John in deed record 313 page 561,
                    being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 1, Township 23 North, Range 5
                    West, Wabash Township, from R-1 to R-1B
2000-26-CM 4-3-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 1,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R-1 to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section
2000-28-CM 5-1-00   32, Township 24 North, Range 4 West in Tippecanoe Township, containing 47.78
                    acres from R-1 to R-1B
2000-29-CM 5-1-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Purdue Research Foundation real
                    estate in Wabash Township, from R-1 to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Southwest
2000-30-CM 5-1-00   Quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township,
                    containing 19.98 acres, from A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Southwest
2000-31-CM 5-1-00   Quarter, part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter and part of the Northeast
                    Quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township,
                    containing 31.48 acres, from R-1 and A to R-1B
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
2000-35-CM 6-5-00   11, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, containing 15.093 acres,
                    from R-1 to R-3
2000-36-CM 6-5-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being the West Half of Lot 2 in the Original Plat
                    of the Town of West Point, Wayne Township, from R-1B to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 1,
2000-37-CM 6-5-00   Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, containing 14.90 acres, from R-
                    1 to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being Lot 1 in Simmons Subdivision, recorded in
2000-38-CM 6-5-00   Plat Book A, page 53, Section E ½ NE ¼ 14, Township 23, Range 5 in West
                    Lafayette, from R-1 to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the South East
2000-43-CM 7-6-00   Quarter of Section 4, in Township 23 North, Range 5 West containing 2 acres in
                    Wabash Township, from A to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Southwest
2000-44-CM 7-6-00   Quarter and a part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from A to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Southwest
2000-45-CM 7-6-00   Quarter of Section 25, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from
                    R-1 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 12
2000-46-CM 7-6-00   in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, containing 2.4482 acres, from
                    R-1 to GB
2000-47-CM 7-6-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being 3 parcels in Wea Township, from A to GB
2000-48-00 7-6-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being 5 parcels of land in Wea Township from R-1 to
                    I-1
2000-49-CM 7-6-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being 3 parcels in Wea Township, from R-1 to I-3
2000-58-CM 8-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being 2 parcels situated in Wea Township, from R-
                    1 to GB
2000-61-CM 8-7-00   Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of Section 27, Township 24 North,
                    Range 4 West containing 2.189 acres, from A to R-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter and part of
2000-62-CM 8-7-00   the Southeast Quarter both in Section 1, Township 22 North, Range 4 West in Wea
                    Township, containing 12.619 acres, from I-3 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Quarter and a part of
2000-66-CM 9-6-00   the Northeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe
                    Township, containing 10.02 acres, from R-1 to PDRS
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the West Half of the Southwest
2000-67-CM 9-6-00   Quarter of Section 2 in Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R-
                    1 to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being all of that real estate conveyed to Herman
2000-68-CM 10-2-00  Barnett, Jr., and Grace E. Barnett, as recorded in Deed Record MF84-1312 and Deed
                    Record 8700274 in the Office of the Recorder for Tippecanoe County, Indiana, from
                    R-1 to PDMX
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
2000-69-CM 10-2-00  10, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, containing 41.76 acres, from
                    R-1 to GB
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
2000-70-CM 10-2-00  10, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, containing 12.77 acres, from
                    R-1 to R-3
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6
2000-71-CM 10-2-00  in Burnett's Reserve, Township 24 North, Range 4 West (also being part of the
                    Northwest Quarter of Section 34 in said Township and Range), in Tippecanoe
                    County, containing 4.705 acres, from A to I-1
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of Southeast Quarter
2000-72-CM 10-2-00  of Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe
                    County, Indiana, within the bounds of the Paul E. Draper Family Limited
                    Partnership property from GB to R-3
2000-74-CM 11-6-00  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the North Half of Section 17,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R-1 and R-1B to R-2
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the Northwest Fractional Quarter of
2000-75-CM 11-6-00  Section 1, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, and a part of the Northeast fraction
                    Quarter of Section 2, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from GB to
                    R-3
2000-76-CM 11-6-00  Rezoning certain real estate, being a part of the East Half of the Southwest
                    Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, in Wabash Township
                    Rezoning certain real estate, being a parcel of land in the East Half of the
2000-77-CM 11-6-00  Northwest Quarter of Section 12, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, situated in Wea
                    Township, from R- 1 to GB
2000-79-CM 12-4-00  Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to R-1
                    Rezoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, together with a part of
2001-01-CM 1-3-01   the Northwest Quarter of Section 15, both in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea
                    Township, Tippecanoe County from R-1 to R-1B
2001-02-CM 1-3-01   Rezoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township, Tippecanoe County, from R-1 to R-2
2001-03-CM 1-3-01   Rezoning a part of the West Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31, Township
                    23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, Tippecanoe County, from R-1 to A
                    Rezoning a part of the East Half of the Southwest Quarter and part of the East
2001-05-CM 2-05-01  Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 5 West,
                    Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from AW to PDRS
2001-14-CM 5-7-01   Rezoning a part of the West Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 3, Township
                    23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from R-3 to PDRS
2001-15-CM 6-4-01   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 24 Township 22 North, Range 6
                    West, Wayne Township, Tippecanoe County, from AW to A
2001-16-CM 6-4-01   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Fractional Quarter of Section 2, Township 23
                    North, Range 4 West in Fairfield Township, Tippecanoe County, from A to R-1
                    Rezoning part of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 22, Township
2001-26-CM 9-5-01   24 North, Range 4 West, in Tippecanoe Township, Tippecanoe County, from R-1 to
                    PDRS
                    Rezoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31,
2001-27-CM 9-5-01   Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, Tippecanoe County, as well as
                    rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, Tippecanoe County from A to I-3
2001-28-CM 10-1-01  Rezoning a part of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2, Township
                    23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from NB to R-3
                    Rezoning a part of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2, Township
2001-29-CM 10-1-01  23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County as well as rezoning a
                    part of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North,
                    Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from NB to GB
                    Rezoning a parcel of land in the Northeast Quarter of Section 24, Township 21
2001-30-CM 10-1-01  North, Range 3 West, in Tippecanoe County, as well as rezoning part of the
                    Northeast Quarter of Section 24, Township 21 North, Range 3 West in Lauramie
                    Township, Tippecanoe County, from HB to I-3
2001-32-CM 10-1-01  Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 5
                    West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from R-3 to GB
                    Rezoning part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 10,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, from I to NB, excepting a part of the Northeast
                    Quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, in Wabash Township,
2001-33-CM 10-1-01  Tippecanoe County, further excepting a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section
                    10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, and further excepting part of the Northeast
                    Quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township,
                    Tippecanoe County
                    Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 27,
2001-34-CM 10-1-01  Township 24 North, Range 6 West, Shelby Township, Tippecanoe County, from AA to
                    GB
                    Rezoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section
2001-35-CM 10-1-01  Eleven, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County, from
                    A to R- 3, excepting a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
                    Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, Tippecanoe County
                    Rezoning a parcel of land located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 5, Township
2001-36-CM 11-5-01  23 North, Range 5 West of the Second Principal Meridian, Tippecanoe County, from
                    AA to A
                    Rezoning a parcel of land in the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
                    Section 7 Township 22 North, Range 4 West, as well as a part of the Southeast
                    Quarter of the Northeast Quarter and part of the North Half of the Southeast
2001-37-CM 11-5-01  Quarter of Section 7, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, containing .26 acres, more
                    or less, and located in Wea Township, from R-1 to GB, excepting a part of the
                    Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter and a part of the Northeast Quarter of
                    the Southeast Quarter of Section 7, Township 22 North, Range 4 West of the Second
                    Principal Meridian, Tippecanoe County
                    Rezoning a part of the West Half of the Northwest Fractional Quarter of Section
                    30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, as well as a part of the West Half of the
                    Northwest Quarter of 30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West in Perry Township,
2001-38-CM 11-5-01  Tippecanoe County, as well as a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30,
                    Township 23 North, Range 3 West of the Second Principal Meridian in Perry
                    Township, Tippecanoe County from A to GB, excepting a part of the West Half of
                    the Northwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry
                    Township, Tippecanoe County
                    Rezoning a parcel of land in the East Half of the East Half of the Northeast
2001-39-CM 11-5-01  Quarter of Section 11 Township 22 North, Range 4 West, from R-1 to I-1, excepting
                    A part of the East Half of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 11
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West
                    Rezoning the northern 670 feet of even width of a part of the Northwest Quarter
2001-40-CM 11-5-01  of Section 12 in Township 22 North, Range 4 West as well as a parcel of land in
                    the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 12, Township 22 North, Range 4
                    West, situated in Wea Township, Tippecanoe County, from R to I-3
2001-43-CM 12-3-01  Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 23 North, Range
                    3 West, Perry Township, Tippecanoe County, from AW to R-1
2002-02-CM 1-7-02   Rezoning 57.7777 acres of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of Section 19,
                    Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from A to R1
                    Rezoning 5.46 acres of real estate in the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest
2002-03-CM 1-7-02   Quarter of Section 15, Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from
                    R1 to A
2002-05-CM 5-8-02   Rezoning 14.900 acres of real estate in the Northwest Quarter of Section 1,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R2 to PDRS
2002-06-CM 1-24-02  Rezoning vacated Lots 8 and 9 in Block 14 in Fowler's Addition, Lauramie
                    Township, from GB to R1B
                    Rezoning 0.0482 of an acre of real estate in the East Half of the Northeast
2002-15-CM 3-4-02   Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from NB
                    to R3
                    Rezoning 0.1900 of an acre of real estate in the East Half of the Northeast
2002-16-CM 3-4-02   Quarter of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R3
                    to GB
2002-17-CM 4-1-02   Rezoning 0.642 of an acre of real estate in the Northwest Quarter of Section 20,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to R1-A
2002-20-CM 5-6-02   Rezoning five acres of real estate in the Northeast Quarter of Section 10,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from I3 to GB
                    Rezoning the North and South Halves of Lot 61 in the Town of Americus laid off by
2002-30-CM 7-1-02   William Digby, situated on the southeast bank of the Wabash River and on the
                    Southeast Fraction of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 3 West, Washington
                    Township, from R1 to NB
2002-32-CM 8-5-02   Rezoning 160.57 acres of real estate in the Northeast Quarter of Section 15,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to PDRS
                    Rezoning 2.95 acres of real estate in the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast
2002-35-CM 9-4-02   Quarter of Section 30, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R1 to
                    A
2002-36-CM 9-4-02   Rezoning 25.654 acres of real estate in the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of
                    Section 34, Township 24 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from A to R1
2002-38-CM 10-7-02  Rezoning approximately one acre of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of
                    Section 4, Township 22 North, Range 3 West, Sheffield Township, from AW to A
2002-39-CM 10-7-02  Rezoning 4.76 acres of real estate in the Northwest Quarter of Section 18,
                    Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from R1 to RE
2002-42-CM 11-4-02  Rezoning 4.39 acres of real estate in the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of
                    Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R3 and GB to NB
2002-43-CM 11-4-02  Rezoning Lot 13 in Wyndham Trace Planned Development from PDMX to PDMX
                    Rezoning 0.958 of an acre of real estate in the West Half of the Southwest
2002-46-CM 12-2-02  Quarter of Section 8, Township 22 North, Range 3 West, Sheffield Township, from A
                    to I3
2002-47-CM 12-2-02  Rezoning one acre of real estate in the East Half of the Southwest Quarter of
                    Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from A to I1
                    Rezoning 20.060 acres of real estate in the North Half of the North Half of the
2002-48-CM 12-2-02  Northeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 22 North, Range 3 West, Sheffield
                    Township, from AW to RE
2003-02-CM 1-6-03   Rezoning 12.99 acres of real estate in the Southwest Quarter of Section 10,
                    Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R3 and GB to PDRS
                    Rezoning 42.07 acres of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast
                    Quarter of Section 29, the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section
2003-03-CM 1-6-03   28, and the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
                    Section 28, all in Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from A
                    to RE
2003-14-CM 4-7-03   Rezoning 0.390 of an acre of real estate in the Northeast Quarter of Section 36,
                    Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from I3 to R1
2003-16-CM 5-5-03   Rezoning 31.48 acres of real estate in the South Half of Section 11, Township 23
                    North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from OR to R1
2003-18-CM 5-5-03   Rezoning 17.03 acres of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of Section 13,
                    Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from R1 and AW to PDRS
2003-19-CM 5-5-03   Rezoning 33.83 acres of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of Section 25,
                    Township 22 North, Range 3 West, Sheffield Township, from AW to RE
2003-27-CM 6-2-03   Rezoning 43.02 acres of real estate in the Southwest Quarter of Section 30,
                    Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from R2 and R3 to PDRS
2003-28-CM 6-2-03   Rezoning 11.476 acres of real estate in the West Half of the Southwest Quarter of
                    Section 15, Township 24 North, Range 3 West, Washington Township, from A to RE
2003-30-CM 8-4-03   Rezoning 31.95 acres of real estate in the Southeast Quarter of Section 10,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R3 and NB to PDRS
2003-34-CM 8-18-03  Rezoning 76.57 acres of real estate in the West Half to the Southeast Quarter of
                    Section 15, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to R1B
                    Rezoning 11.252 acres of real estate in the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest
2003-35-CM 8-4-03   Quarter and also part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
                    Section 24, Township 23 North, Range 6 West, Shelby Township, from AW to RE
2003-36-CM 8-4-03   Rezoning 13.23 acres of real estate in a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section
                    10, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from NB to GB
2003-42-CM 9-3-03   Rezoning Lot 4 in the original plat of the Town of Chapmanville, now Colburn,
                    Indiana, from GB to R1
2003-43-CM 10-6-03  Rezoning 1.5399 acres of real estate in a part of the Northwest Quarter of
                    Section 20, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to R1A
2003-44-CM 11-3-03  Rezoning 1927 S. Creasy Lane, Layfayette, Indiana from R1 to GB
                    Rezoning 1.66 acres of real estate in a part of the North Half of the Southwest
2003-47-CM 12-1-03  Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 11, Township 21 North, Range 6 West,
                    Jackson Township, from AA to GB
2003-48-CM 12-1-03  Rezoning 28.64 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    15, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R1 to PDRS
2003-49-CM 12-1-03  Rezoning 13.83 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    15, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from R1 to PDRS
                    Rezoning 163.205 and 2.5475 acres of real estate in a part of the Southeast
2003-50-CM 12-1-03  Quarter of Section 31, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from A to
                    I3
                    Rezoning 143.50 acres of real estate in a part of the East Half of the Southeast
2004-01-CM 1-5-04   Quarter of Section 15, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to
                    R1B
2004-05-CM 2-2-04   Rezoning 21.829 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of
                    Section 36, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from A to RE
2004-07-CM 3-1-04   Rezoning 10.490 acres of real estate in a part of the Northwest Quarter of
                    Section 20, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from AW to PDRS
                    Rezoning 31.454 acres of real estate in a part of the West Half of the West Half
2004-08-CM 3-1-04   of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Shelby
                    Township, from AW to RE
                    Rezoning 17.49 acres of real estate in a part of the West Half of the Southeast
2004-11-CM 4-5-04   Quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from PDRS
                    to PDRS
                    Rezoning 114.53 acres of real estate in a part of the Northwest Quarter of
2004-13-CM 5-3-04   Section 31, Township 23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, and 29.84 acres of
                    real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 23 North,
                    Range 3 West, Perry Township, from A and I3 to MR
                    Rezoning .93 acres of real estate in a part of Section 33, Township 24 North,
2004-17-CM 6-7-04   Range 3 West, Washington Township, from R1 and unzoned to A and rezoning .02
                    acres of real estate in a part of Section 33, Township North, Range 3 West,
                    Washington Township, from unzoned to RI
                    Rezoning the north and south half of Lot 61 in Town of Americus laid off by
2004-18-CM 6-7-04   William Digby, situated on the southeast bank of the Wabash River and on the
                    Southeast Fraction of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 3 West, Washington
                    Township, from NB to GB
2004-21-CM 7-6-04   Rezoning 12.99 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    10, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from PDRS to GB
2004-22-CM 7-6-04   Rezoning 6400 square feet of real estate in a part of the Northeast Quarter off
                    Section 1, Township 23 North, Range 6 West, Shelby Township, from AA to A
                    Rezoning 117.70 acres of real estate in a part of the East Half of the Southeast
2004-23-CM 7-6-04   Quarter of Section 26, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from
                    R1 to GB
2004-28-CM 8-2-04   Rezoning .37 acre of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    16, Township 24 North, Range 3 West, Washington Township, from NB and R1 to I3
2004-33-CM 10-4-04  Rezoning 1.361 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    25, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from R1 to GB
                    Rezoning 67.623 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of
2004-34-CM 10-4-04  Section 34 and part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 33, all in Township 23
                    North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from AW to PDRS
2004-38-CM 11-1-04  Rezoning 19.66 acres of real estate in a part of the Northwest Fractional Quarter
                    of Section 2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from NB to GB
                    Rezoning Lots 1, 2, and 3 in Block 15 of Fowler's Addition to the Village of
2004-40-CM 11-6-04  Stockwell as platted upon part of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter of
                    Section 8, Township 21 North, Range 3 West, Lauramie Township, from NB to NBU
                    Rezoning 1.23 acres of real estate in a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section
2005-02-CM 3-7-05   31 and part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32, all in Township 24 North,
                    Range 4 West, Wabash Township, from R1 to PDRS
                    Rezoning a strip of land being the western 200 feet, in even width, except the
2005-03-CM 1-4-05   northern 670 feet, in even width, of the southwest corner of the Northwest
                    Quarter of Section 12, Wea Township, from R1 to I3
2005-06-CM 2-7-05   Rezoning 22.97 acres of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    28, Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from A to RE
2005-08-CM 3-7-05   Rezoning real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 12, Township
                    23 North, Range 3 West, Perry Township, from AW to A
2005-09-CM 4-4-05   Rezoning .72 acre of real estate in a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section
                    17, Township 21 North, Range 4 West, Randolph Township, from AW to A
                    Rezoning 3.428 acres of real estate in a part of the East Half of the Northeast
2005-11-CM 5-2-05   Quarter of Section 14, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from I3 to
                    A
                    Rezoning 20 acres of real estate in a part of the West Half of the Southwest
2005-12-CM 5-2-05   Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 15, Township 24 North, Range 4 West,
                    Tippecanoe Township, from R1 to A
2005-16-CM 6-6-05   Rezoning a part of the east half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 11, Township
                    22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township, from I3 to GB
2005-17-CM 6-6-05   Rezoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 34, Township 24 North, Range
                    5 West, in Wabash Township, from PDRS and R1 to PDRS
2005-18-CM 6-6-05   Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 24 North, Range
                    5 West, Wabash Township, from PDRS to R1
2005-23-CM 7-5-05   Rezoning a part of the west half of the Southwest Quarter of Section Two in
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, from R3 to NB
2005-24-CM 7-5-05   Rezoning a part of the south half of the northwest fractional quarter of Section
                    2, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, from A and NB to GB
2005-27-CM 8-1-05   Rezoning a part of the real estate conveyed to Richard P. and Eloise G. Warren
                    Revocable Trust from AW to RE
2005-28-CM 9-6-05   Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township from A to R1
2005-29-CM 9-6-05   Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township, from I3 to R1
                    Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14 and a part of the
2005-30-CM 9-6-05   Southwest Quarter of Section 11, all in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea
                    Township, from R1A and I3 to R1A
                    Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 14 and a part of the
2005-31-CM 9-6-05   Southwest Quarter of Section 11, all in Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea
                    Township, from R1 and I3 to R1B
2005-32-CM 9-6-05   Rezoning Outlot 319 in Hadley Moors Subdivision, Part Two, from R1B to PDRS
                    Rezoning lots numbered 21 and 44 in the Town of Monroe, as platted upon part of
2005-33-CM 9-6-05   the east half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 21 North, Range 3
                    West, from AW to GB
2005-34-CM 9-6-05   Rezoning 20,000 acres off the west end of the real estate conveyed to Providence
                    Foundation, Inc., from R1 to I2
2005-35-CM 9-6-05   Rezoning part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 24 North, Range 4
                    West, Tippecanoe Township, from A to R1
2005-39-CM 10-3-05  Rezoning part of the real estate conveyed to Nissan Chemical America Corporation
                    from A to R-1
2005-40-CM 10-3-05  Rezoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 23 North, Range 5
                    West, in Shelby Township, from AA to A.
2005-52-CM 12-5-05  Rezoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 21, Township 21 North, Range 3
                    West, Lauramie Township, from AA to A
2006-02-CM 2-6-06   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 22 North, Range 3
                    West, Sheffield Township from AW to A
                    Rezoning a part of the Northeast and Northwest Quarters of Section 36, Township
2006-03-CM 2-6-06   24 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R2 to R1B and rezoning Outlot 319
                    in Hadley Moors Subdivision, Part Two from PDRS to R1B
2006-07-CM 6-5-06   Rezoning Lot 2 in Part 1 of Sam Martin's Subdivision in Perry Township, from AW
                    to I-2
                    Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10 and a part of the
2006-08-CM 6-5-06   Southwest Quarter of Section 11, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township,
                    from R1 to GB
2006-09-CM 6-5-06   Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township, from R1 to NB
                    Rezoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10 and a part of the
2006-10-CM 6-5-06   Southwest Quarter of Section 11, Township 22 North, Range 4 West, Wea Township,
                    from R1 to I1
2006-12-CM 7-3-06   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 21, Township 22 North, Range
                    4 West, Wea Township, from A to I3
                    Rezoning parts of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 27,
2006-14-CM 8-7-06   Township 24 North, Range 6 West and the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest
                    Quarter of Section 26, Township 24 North, Range 6 West, Shelby Township, from AA
                    to GB
                    Rezoning the north half of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
2006-15-CM 8-7-06   Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 5 West containing 20 acres more or less,
                    Wabash Township, from R1 to R3
2006-16-CM 8-7-06   Rezoning the east half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 25, Township 24 North,
                    Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from A to R1
2006-19-CM 9-5-06   Rezoning a part of the Northwest Quarter and a part of the Northeast Quarter of
                    Section 29, Township 24 North, Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from PDRS to R1
2006-20-CM 9-5-06   Rezoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 24 North, Range
                    4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from A to R1
2006-28-CM - -      Rezoning two parcels located in Wea Township from I3 to R1B
                    Rezoning Lot Number 1 in the Hoadley Minor Subdivision, part of the Northeast
2007-02-CM 1-2-07   Quarter of Section 12, Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from OR
                    to PDRS
2007-03-CM 1-2-07   Rezoning part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 4,
                    Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from A to R1
2007-05-CM 1-2-07   Rezoning 601 SR 28 W, Romney, Indiana from AA to I-3
                    Rezoning part of the real estate conveyed to Fred M. Kuipers and Andrea D.
2007-06-CM 1-2-07   Kuipers, being a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 28, Township 24 North,
                    Range 4 West, Tippecanoe Township, from A to RE
                    Rezoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 21, and part of the Southwest
2007-07-CM 2-5-07   Quarter of Section 16, all in Township 23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township,
                    from A to RE
                    Rezoning part of the west half of the west half of the east half of the Northwest
2007-08-CM 2-5-07   Quarter of Section 14, Township 23 North, Range 4 West, Fairfield Township, from
                    R1 to A
2007-09-CM 2-5-07   Rezoning part of the west half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 26, Township
                    24 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R1 to A
2007-11-CM 3-5-07   Rezoning part of the east half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 15, Township
                    23 North, Range 5 West, Wabash Township, from R1 to PDRS
2007-14-CM 4-2-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Jackson Township from AA to A
2007-25-CM 7-2-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R3 to GB
2007-27-CM 8-6-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2007-28-CM 8-6-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from I3 to R1
2007-29-CM 8-6-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township (Stockwell Lot 4, Block 2)
                    from NB to R1
2007-32-CM 9-4-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from GB to A
2007-36-CM 10-1-07  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township (Lots 3 and 4 in Mystic Woods
                    Subdivision, Phase 2) from R1 to NB
2007-38-CM 11-5-07  Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from AA to A
2007-42-CM 12-3-07  Rezoning real estate situated in Shelby Township from AA to GB
2007-42-CM 12-3-07  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from GB to I-1
2008-04-CM 2-4-07   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from PDRS to PDRS
2008-05-CM 2-4-08   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R3 to MR
2008-07-CM 3-3-08   Rezoning real estate situated in Shelby Township from AW to RE
2008-14-CM 8-4-08   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from I3 to GB
2008-15-CM 8-4-08   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from GB to R3
2008-22-CM 11-3-08  Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A and R2 to HB
2008-23-CM 11-17-08 Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to A
2009-01-CM 2-2-09   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to R1
2009-04-CM 5-4-09   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A and R1 to RE
2009-05-CM 5-18-09  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from RE to A
2009-06-CM 5-18-09  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A and RE to RE
2009-08-CM 4-6-09   Rezoning real estate situated in Shelby Township from AA to GB
2009-11-CM 8-3-09   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R-1 to GB
2009-16-CM 9-8-09   Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from NB to R1
2009-17-CM 10-5-09  Rezoning real estate situated in Shelby Township from AW to RE
2009-23-CM 11-2-09  Rezoning real estate situated in Perry Township from R3 to NB
2009-25-CM 11-2-09  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to A
2010-05-CM 4-5-10   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from GB to PDNR
2010-06-CM 4-5-10   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2010-10-CM 7-6-10   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township, from I3 to GB
2010-11-CM 8-2-10   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township, from A to I3
2011-01-CM 1-3-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township, from PDRS to PDRS
2011-02-CM 1-3-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from I3 to A
2011-03-CM 1-3-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from I3 to A
2011-10-CM 4-4-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 and R3 to PDRS
2011-11-CM 5-2-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from PDRS to R2
2011-12-CM 5-2-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from NG and GB to NBU
2011-13-CM 6-6-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to GB
2011-16-CM 7-5-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to GB
2011-18-CM 8-1-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wayne Township from R1B to NB
2011-20-CM 9-6-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from I3 to R1
2011-21-CM 9-6-11   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to GB
2011-28-CM 11-7-11  Rezoning real estate situated in Randolph Township from NB to R1B
2011-29-CM 11-7-11  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2012-01-CM 1-3-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from A to R1B
2012-02-CM 1-3-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to R1
2012-06-CM 2-6-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from PDRS to PDRS
2012-08-CM 2-6-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to R3
2012-09-CM 2-6-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to NB
2012-14-CM 3-5-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from I3 to GB
2012-16-CM 4-2-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from PDRS to A
2012-17-CM 4-2-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R1 and I3 to I3
2012-20-CM 6-4-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Perry Township from AW to A
2012-22-CM 7-2-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Perry Township from AW to I2
2012-23-CM 8-6-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to PDRS
2012-24-CM 9-4-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from FP-R1 to R3
2012-25-CM 9-4-12   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to GB
2012-28-CM 10-1-12  Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from PDMX to A
2012-34-CM 11-19-12 Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to PDRS
2013-04-CM 2-4-13   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to R3
2013-08-CM 3-4-13   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to A
2013-09-CM 3-4-13   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A to GB
2013-12-CM 4-1-13   Rezoning real estate located in Wea Township from R1 to R1B
2013-13-CM 4-1-13   Rezoning real estate located in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2013-15-CM 4-1-13   Rezoning real estate located in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2013-19-CM 5-6-13   Rezoning real estate located in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2013-22-CM 6-3-13   Rezoning real estate located in Wabash Township from A to GB
2013-23-CM 7-1-13   Rezoning real estate located in Fairfield Township from A and R1 to GB
2013-28-CM 9-3-13   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from A to GB
2013-29-CM 9-3-13   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from GB and NG to R3
2013-32-CM 10-7-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2013-33-CM 10-7-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from R3 to A
2013-34-CM 10-7-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2013-35-CM 10-7-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to RE
2013-41-CM 11-4-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from PD-RS to R1B
2013-44-CM 12-2-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R1 to GB
2013-45-CM 12-2-13  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to GB
2014-06-CM 6-2-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from OR to R1
2014-07-CM 6-2-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from AA to NB
2014-09-CM 7-7-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2014-11-CM 8-4-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from GB to R1B
2014-12-CM 8-4-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to A
2014-14-CM 9-2-14   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to GB
2014-19-CM 11-3-14  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to GB
2014-22-CM 12-1-14  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from I3 to R1B
2014-23-CM 12-1-14  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to GB
2015-01-CM 1-5-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from R1 to PDMX
2015-02-CM 1-5-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Sheffield Township from A to I3
2015-07-CM 4-20-15  Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from R1 to R1B
2015-08-CM 4-20-15  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to R1
2015-10-CM 5-4-15   Amending the Unified Zoning Ordinance for Tippecanoe County
2015-14-CM 7-6-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R-1 to I-3
2015-15-CM 7-6-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to A
2015-16-CM 7-6-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to A
2015-17-CM 9-8-15   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A to NB
2015-22-CM 11-2-15  Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from A to I2
2016-06-CM 3-7-16   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from A to R1
2016-11-CM 8-1-16   Rezoning real estate situated in Perry Township from AW to R1
2016-12-CM 8-1-16   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from GB to R1
2016-13-CM 8-1-16   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from I3 to A
2016-14-CM 8-1-16   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from GB to R3
2016-22-CM 10-3-16  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash township from A to GB
2016-24-CM 11-7-16  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to R1
2016-25-CM 11-7-16  Rezoning real estate situated in Wayne Township from R1B to GB
2016-28-CM 12-5-16  Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from HB to AA
2016-29-CM 12-5-16  Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from FP and AW to AW, A, R1, R1B,
                    and FP
2017-08-CM 6-5-17   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to RE
2017-11-CM 7-3-17   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from I- 3 to A
2017-13-CM 8-7-17   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to I2
2017-15-CM 9-5-17   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to A
2017-18-CM 10-2-17  Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to RE
2018-1-CM  1-2-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to R1A
2018-04-CM 2-5-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1A
2018-05-CM 2-5-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2018-09    3-5-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A/R1B to R1A
2018-10-CM 4-2-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Way Township from NB/GB to GB
2018-12-CM 5-7-18   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R1 to R1B
2018-23-CM 11-5-18  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash TSC Township from A to R2
2019-01-CM 1-7-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2019-02-CM 1-7-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Wayne township from Agricultural to General
                    Business
2019-03-CM 2-4-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from GB to A
2019-04-CM 2-4-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to R1B
2019-13-CM 5-6-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to I1
2019-14-CM 5-6-19   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to GB
2019-25-CM 9-3-     Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from NB, GB, I1 and R1 to R3
           19   
2019-28-CM 11-4-19  Rezoning real estate situated in Perry Township from A to NB
2019-31-CM 12-2-19  Rezoning real estate situated Wayne Township from AW to I3
2020-01-CM 3-2-20   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A to I3
2020-03-CM 6-1-20   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 and PDRS to PDRS
2020-04-CM 6-1-     Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from GB to I3
           20   
2020-05-CM 6-1-20   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from R1 to GB
2020-06-CM 6-1-     Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from R1A to R1B
           20   
2020-07-CM 7-6-     Rezoning real estate situated in Sheffield Township from A to I3
           20   
2020-13-CM 9-8-20   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from NB to R3
2020-17-CM 10-5-20  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from PDNR to GB
2020-18-CM 11-2-20  Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2020-20-CM 12-7-20  Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from NB to R1
2021-03-CM 2-1-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to R2
2021-04-CM 2-1-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from A to RE
2021-06-CM 3-1-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to GB
2021-09-CM 5-3-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R3, R2, R1B, R1A, R1, FP,
                    PDRS, and I3 to FP and R2
2021-10-CM 5-3-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to RE
2021-11-CM 5-3-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R1B to R2
2021-12-CM 6-7-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A to I1
2021-14-CM 7-6-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wea Township from R1 to AW
2021-15-CM 7-6-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Washington Township from A to RE
2021-17-CM 8-2-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from R3 and NB to R3
2021-18-CM 8-2-21   Rezoning real estate situated in Fairfield Township from I3 to R1
2021-28-CM 10-4-21  Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from NB to R1U
2021-29-CM 10-4-21  Rezoning real estate situated in Wabash Township from GB to R3
2022-04-CM 5-2-22   Rezoning real estate situated in Lauramie Township from AA to A
2022-06-CM 6-6-22   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to PDRS
2022-07-CM 6-6-22   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Sheffield Township from A to I3
2022-20-CM - -22    Rezoning certain real estate situated in Lauramie Township from NB to R1U
2022-21-CM 10-3-22  Rezoning certain real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from A to R1
2022-22-CM 11-7-22  Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wabash Township from A to R2
2023-01-CM 1-3-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Washington Township from GB to R1
2023-04-CM 2-6-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Lauramie Township from R3, A, GB, NB, R1
                    and AA to R1, R1B, NBU, and GB.
2023-09-CM 5-1-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Lauramie Township from R1 to R1B
2023–10-C5-1-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wea Township from NB to R3
2023-12-CM 5-1-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to R3
2023-13-CM 5-1-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Wabash Township from R1 to R3
2023-14-CM 6-5-     Rezoning certain real estate situated in Randolph Township from AA to I-3
           23   
2023-15-CM 6-5-     Rezoning certain real estate situated in Tippecanoe Township from NB to R1
           23   
2023-16-CM 7-8-23   Rezoning certain real estate situated in Perry Township from AW to A
                   
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1982 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Cite Code Section
Indiana Code Cite   Code Section
3-5-2-40.1          36.04
4-16-15             34.651
4-21.5-3-7          151.14
4-21.5-3-26         51.10
4-21.5-5-1 et seq.  51.10
5-1-14              34.55
                    30.03,
5-3-1               30.16,
                    34.10
5-3-5               30.03
5-11-1-27(e)        34.85
5-11-1-27(j)        34.87
5-13-9-5.7(a)(6)    34.95
5-14-1.5            30.16
5-14-1.5-3.5        30.07
5-14-1.5-5          30.02,
                    30.16
5-14-1.5-5(d)       32.38
5-14-3-2(k)         34.27
5-14-3-3(e)         31.123
5-14-3-3.6          34.48
5-14-3-8(h)         34.48
5-14-3-8.3          34.62
5-22                36.05
5-22-2              34.02
5-22-5-2            34.06
5-22-5-4            34.06
5-22-5-5            34.07
5-22-6           34.04
5-22-7              34.08
5-22-9              34.09
5-22-9-4            34.09
5-23                34.21
6-1.1-17            30.16
6-1.1-24-6.4        34.681
6-1.1-28            31.025
6-1.1-28-1(c)     31.025
6-1.1-41 et seq.  34.46
6-3.5-4 et seq.     34.75
6-3.5-5 et seq.     34.75
6-7-9-28            156.01
6-8.1-3-12          34.73
6-8.1-3-12(h)(3)    34.73
6-9-7-6             34.72,
                    34.73
7.1-1-3-5           70.04
7.1-1-3-13          70.04
8-16-1 et seq.   34.46
9-9-5-6             73.07
9-13-2-105          70.04,
                    73.02
9-13-2-150          70.04
9-21-4              70.05
9-21-5           70.05
9-21-5-6            70.05
9-21-5-6(f)         70.05
9-21-18-4.3         74.02
9-21-18-4.3(i)      74.03
9-21-18-4.3(j)      74.03
9-22-16             71.03
9-24-1-3            70.04
9-30-3-6            50.03
11-12-2-2(a)        31.045
11-12-2-2(b)        31.045
11-12-5-5           34.52
12-18-8-1 et seq.   31.301
12-18-8-10          31.302
12-18-8-11          31.302
12-18-8-14          31.304
13-11-2-97          32.56
13-21-3             50.58
13-21-3-10          50.58
13-21-3-11          50.58
13-21-3-12          50.58
13-21-3-12.2        50.58
13-21-3-13          50.58
13-21-5             50.58
13-25               31.070
13-25-1-1           31.070
13-25-1-6           31.070
13-25-1-6(h)        31.070
13-25-2-14          31.070
16-18-2-137         110.005
                    51.11,
16-20-1-25          94.05,
                    95.40,
                    113.20
16-20-1-27          34.26,
                    112.03
16-20-2-2           51.03
16-20-2-2(c)        113.03
16-20-8-1 et seq.   110.101
16-20-8-5           110.115
16-37-1-9           112.20
16-41-33-1 et seq.  94.04
16-41-33-6          94.05
16-42-5-4           110.060
16-42-5.2           110.004,
                    110.999
16-42-5.2-4         110.005
16-42-5.2-12        110.999
22-9.5-1-2          92.01
22-9.5-2            92.01
22-9.5-2-9          92.01
22-9.5-3-1          92.03
22-9.5-3-2          92.02
22-9.5-3-3          92.02
22-9.5-3-4          31.176,
                    92.03
22-9.5-5            92.01,
                    92.03
22-9.5-5-1          92.03
22-9.5-5-2          92.03
22-9.5-5-3          92.03
22-9.5-5-4          92.03
22-9.5-5-5          92.03
22-9.5-5-6          92.03
22-9.5-5-7          92.03
22-9.5-5-8          92.03
22-9.5-6            92.03
22-11-14-1          97.01
22-11-14-10.5       97.02
22-12-1-3           156.04
22-12-1-4           151A.04
22-13-2-3(b)        151.05
22-13-2-7           151.14
22-15-4             151.04
25-21.5             157.10
25-31               157.10
25-34.1             31.176
26-1-3.1-104        34.35,
                    34.37
31-16-17-12         31.206
31-37-1-2           31.206
32-2-2-27           161.20,
                    162.05
32-8-31-5           73.07
32-29-7-3(b)        34.691
33-9-11.5           31.208
33-9-14             31.210
33-9-15.5           31.208
33-36-3-1           50.03
33-37-5-2           34.31
33-40-7-3           31.207
34-13-3-3           32.55
34-24-1-4           34.51
34-24-1-4(d)(3)(B)  34.47
34-24-1-4(3)(b)     34.47
34-28-5-1(e)        50.03
35-44-1-3           36.05
35-47-2-7           130.01
35-47-3-2           130.01
35-47-3-3           130.01
35-47-4-1           130.01
36-1-3-4            51.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99
36-1-3.5-9          31.105
36-1-5-6            Adopting Ordinance
36-1-8-5            34.63
36-1-12             36.05
36-1-21             36.05
36-1-27-4           151.16
36-2-1-2            35.03
36-2-2-4(a)         35.02
36-2-2-4(b)         35.02
36-2-2-8            30.02
36-2-2-8(a)         32.38
36-2-2-14           30.05
36-2-3              30.15,
                    35.03
36-2-3-2            30.15
36-2-3-4(a)         35.03
36-2-3-4(d)         35.03
36-2-3-4(h)         35.03
36-2-3-6            30.15
36-2-3-7            30.16
36-2-4-2            30.03
36-2-4-5            30.03
36-2-4-6            30.03
36-2-4-7(b)         30.03
36-2-4-8 (a), (b)   30.03
36-2-4-9            30.03
36-2-5-3(a)         32.16
36-2-7-10(f)        34.41
36-2-7-10.1         34.41
36-2-7-10.1(h)      34.41
36-2-7-10.1(i)      34.41
36-2-7.5            34.68
36-2-9-18(d)        34.54
36-2-12-11          157.10
36-2-12-13          157.10
36-2-14-22.3        36.04
36-5-2-2            10.18
36-7-4-211          31.016
36-7-4-211(b)       31.016
36-7-4-1109(b)      151.16
36-7-9              156.01
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-28156.01
36-7-9-4            156.02
36-7-9-13           156.01
36-7-9-14           156.05
36-7-9-28           156.99
36-7-12             31.065
36-7-12-7           31.065
36-7-12-9(b)        31.065
36-7-14             31.055
36-7-25             31.055
36-8-10-3           31.155
36-8-10-5           35.04
36-9-27-4           155.10
36-9-27-5           155.12
36-9-27-6           155.12
36-9-27-7           155.13
36-9-27-8           155.14
36-9-27-12          155.15
36-9-27-15          155.16
36-9-27-16          155.17
36-9-27.4           155.18
36-9-27-33          155.18
36-9-27-46          155.18
36-9-27-47          155.18
                    93.25,
36-10-3             93.26,
                    93.29
36-10-3-22          34.53
36-79-2             156.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code Section 2002 Code Section
1982 Code Section 2002 Code Section
1-2-1             11.01
1-3-1             35.01
1-3-2             35.02
1-3-3             35.03
1-4-1             30.01
1-4-2             30.02
1-4-3             30.03
1-5-1             155.10
1-5-2             155.11
1-5-3             155.12
1-5-4             155.12
1-5-5             155.13
1-5-6             155.14
1-5-7             155.15
1-5-8             155.16
1-5-9             155.17
1-6-1             30.15
1-6-2             30.16
1-7-2             34.72
1-10-1            31.145
1-10-2            31.065
1-10-5            31.095
1-11-1            31.001
1-11-2            31.001
2-21-1            111.01
2-21-2            111.02
2-21-3            111.03
2-21-4            111.03
2-21-5            111.04
2-21-6            111.04
2-21-7            111.06
2-21-8            111.07
2-21-9            111.09
2-21-10           111.09
2-21-11           111.08
3-42-3            52.03
3-43-1            52.01
3-43-2            52.02
3-43-4            52.04
4-63-1            154.01
4-63-2            154.02
4-64-1            150.01
4-64-2            150.02
4-65-2            153.04
4-65-3            153.02
4-65-4            153.05
4-65-5            153.05
4-65-6            153.06
4-65-7            153.07
4-65-8            153.08
4-65-9            153.09
4-65-10           153.03
5-81-1            70.01
5-81-2            70.01
5-81-3            70.01
5-81-4            70.01
5-82-1            71.01
5-82-2            71.01
5-82-3            71.01
5-83-1            96.15
5-83-2            96.16
5-83-3            96.17
5-83-4            96.18
5-83-5            96.19
5-84-1            96.02
5-84-2            96.02
5-85-1            70.03
5-85-2            70.03
5-85-3            70.03
5-85-4            70.03
6-101-1           31.015
6-101-2           31.016
6-102-1           153.01
6-102-2           153.01
6-103-1           152.01
6-103-2           152.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
77-12      5-16-77     31.095
82-1       8-2-82      30.05
87-14-CM   5-18-87     152.01,
                       158.01
87-1BA     10-20-87    T.S.O. II
87-16-CM   10-20-87    T.S.O. II
87-17-CM   11-2-87     152.01,
                       158.01
88-1-CM    1-8-88      31.045
89-2-CM    3-21-89     158.01
91-16-CM   9-4-91      158.01
91-18-CL   9-10-91     152.01
96-04-CM   3-4-96      158.01
96-08-CM   7-1-96      158.01
96-13-CM   11-11-96    152.01,
                       158.01
97-03-CM   1-9-97      30.06
97-36-CM   9-2-97      158.01
98-41-CM   - -98       158.01
98-31-CM   7-6-98      32.55
99-02-CM   - -99       T.S.O. I
99-06-CM   1-6-99      30.04
99-03-CL   1-12-99     T.S.O. I
99-17-CM   4-5-99      34.46
99-23-CL   7-13-99     34.53
2000-07-CM 2-7-00      158.01
2001-24-CM 6-4-01      158.01
2002-01-CM 1-7-02      30.02
2002-04-CL 1-15-02     34.61
2002-17-CM 4-1-02      T.S.O. II
2002-24-CM 6-17-02     T.S.O. I
2002-27-CL 8-13-02     T.S.O. II
2002-37-CM 11-18-02    31.065
2003-01-CM 1-6-03      30.02
2003-08-CM 1-22-03     T.S.O. II
2003-09-CL 2-11-03     T.S.O. II
2003-13-CM 4-7-03      30.25
2003-19-CL 6-2-03      T.S.O. II
2004-01-CM 1-5-04      30.02
2004-19-CM 6-21-04     34.64
2004-22-CM 6-21-04     34.65
2005-01-CM 1-4-05      30.02
2005-12-CM 3-7-05      152.01
2005-13-CM 3-21-05     34.66
2005-19-CM 6-6-05      34.67
2005-35-CM 10-3-05     34.68
2005-39-CM 12-19-05    T.S.O. II
2006-01-CM 1-3-06      30.02
2006-10-CM 3-6-06      34.69
2006-11-CM 3-6-06      34.695
2007-01-CM 1-2-07      30.02
2007-12-CM 7-2-07      152.01
2007-24-CM 11-5-07     T.S.O. I
2007-25-CL 11-13-07    T.S.O. I
2008-01-CM 1-7-08      30.02
2008-15-CM 4-7-08      T.S.O. II
2008-16-CL 4-8-08      T.S.O. II
2009-01-CM 1-5-09      30.02
2009-03-CL 1-13-09     T.S.O. I
2009-04-CL 1-13-09     T.S.O. I
2009-06-CM 1-20-09     T.S.O. II
2009-16-CM 5-18-09     34.697
2010-01-CM 1-4-10      30.02
2010-07-CM 2-1-10      T.S.O. I
2010-10-CL 2-9-10      T.S.O. I
2010-15-CM 9-7-10      34.698
2011-1-CM  1-3-11      30.02
2011-13-CL 5-10-11     34.692
2011-14-CM 6-6-11      34.693
2011-15-CM 6-6-11      34.694
2011-19-CM 7-5-11      34.681
2011-21-CM 8-1-11      152.01
2011-37-CM 10-17-11    34.20
2011-40-CM 11-7-11     30.02
2011-45-CM -5-11       T.S.O. II
2012-01-CM 1-3-12      30.02
2012-16-CM 7-2-12      152.01
2012-21-CM 10-1-12     34.682
2013-01-CM 1-7-13      30.02
2013-04-CM - -         T.S.O. II
2013-05-CM - -         T.S.O. II
2013-09-CM 2-19-13     T.S.O. II
2013-10-CL 3-12-13     T.S.O. II
2013-23-CM 8-5-13      34.683
2013-31-CM 11-18-13    T.S.O. II
2013-32-CM 11-18-13    T.S.O. I
2013-33-CM 12-2-13     T.S.O. I
2013-34-CM 12-10-13    T.S.O. I
2014-01-CM 1-6-14      30.02
2014-26-CM 11-17-14    T.S.O. II
2014-27-CM 11-17-14    T.S.O. II
2015-01-CM 1-5-15      30.02
2015-30-CM 10-5-15     34.699
2015-33-CM 11-16-15    34.684
2015-36-CM 12-21-15    30.02
2016-16-CM 4-4-16      34.685
2016-19-CM 5-16-16     34.85—
                       34.87
2016-29-CM 11-7-16     34.686
2016-31-CM 11-21-16    T.S.O. II
2017-20-CM 8-7-17      152.01
2017-30-CM 10-2-17     T.S.O. I
2017-31-CL 10-10-17    T.S.O. I
2017-37-CL 12-12-17    T.S.O. II
2017-38-CM 12-18-17    30.02
2017-39-CM 12-27-17    T.S.O. II
2018-3-CM  1-2-18      152.01
2018-5-CM  1-16-18     T.S.O. II
2018-30-CM 9-17-18     T.S.O. I
2019-17-CM 8-5-19      34.621
2019-28-CM 10-7-19     T.S.O. I
2019-30-CM 10-21-19    T.S.O. I
2020-04-CM 1-21-20     34.21
2020-31-CL 12-8-20     T.S.O. II
2020-32-CL 12-8-20     34.95
2020-33-CM 12-7-20     34.631
2021-01-CM 1-4-21      30.02
2021-06-CM 2-17-21     T.S.O. II
2021-14-CM 5-3-21      T.S.O. II
2021-15-CM 5-3-21      T.S.O. II
2021-16-CM 5-17-21     30.07
2022-01-CM 1-3-22      30.02
2022-07-CM 2-7-22      35.03
2022-16-CM 6-6-22      34.651
2022-23    7-5-22      152.01
2023-04    3-6-23      152.01
2022-36-CM 10-3-22     152.01
2023-01-CM 1-3-23      30.02
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
—          3-29-71     70.01
—          10-2-72     70.03
—          11-19-73    96.16
—          5-6-74      31.145
—          10-20-75    70.01
75-24        11-3-75     31.015,
                         31.016
—          11-13-75    153.01
76-1         1-5-76      31.016
—          4-5-76      111.01—
                         111.09
76-13        6-7-76      154.01,
                         154.02
76-14        6-7-76      Chapter 72, Schedule I
                         50.01,
                         50.02,
                         50.15—
                         50.26,
76-19        6-14-76     50.40—
                         50.44,
                         50.56,
                         50.57,
                         50.99
76-24        8-1-76      96.18
76-25        8-1-76      96.19
76-30        10-4-76     71.01
77-4         3-14-77     T.S.O. III
77-13        5-23-77     96.17
77-19        7-18-77     T.S.O. I
77-20        7-25-77     T.S.O. III
77-32        11-7-77     150.01,
                         150.02
78-9         4-3-78      96.02
78-10        4-11-78     34.72
78-20        7-24-78     153.02—
                         153.09
79-9         3-26-79     T.S.O. III
79-29        10-22-79    52.01—
                         52.04
79-30        10-22-79    T.S.O. III
79-31-CM     11-19-79    159.01
80-1-CL      2-12-80     31.065
80-2-CM      2-25-80     T.S.O. III
—          6-24-80     70.03
—          8-11-80     33.01
80-24        10-13-80    34.34
80-25        11-3-80     96.19
81-01-CM     1-19-81     159.01
81-8         4-20-81     T.S.O. III
81-10        6-1-81      50.55
81-14        10-19-81    T.S.O. III
81-15        10-19-81    152.01
81-16        12-14-81    34.57
82-9         5-24-82     T.S.O. III
82-10        5-24-82     T.S.O. III
82-13        8-16-82     31.001
82-15-CM     8-30-02     159.01
82-16        9-7-82      34.35
82-19        10-18-82    T.S.O. III
82-12        12-14-82    93.25—
                         93.30
83-3         4-4-83      T.S.O. III
83-5         4-18-83     31.155
83-3         9-27-83     34.57
84-1         1-16-84     96.17
84-3         2-6-84      T.S.O. III
84-5         3-19-84     T.S.O. III
84-11        9-17-84     31.200,
                         31.201
84-12        9-17-84     31.165,
                         31.166
3-85-CM      1- -85      96.01
85-07-CM     3-18-85     159.01
14-85-CM     9-16-85     T.S.O. III
24-CL-85     11-12-85    34.58
86-4-CM      2-3-86      31.016
86-12-CL     6-10-86     34.70
86-16-CL     9-1-86      34.72
86-22-CM     10-20-86    T.S.O. III
87-04-CM     2-2-87      159.01
87-14-CM     5-18-87     152.01
87-32-CL     10-13-87    34.72
87-33-CM     10-19-87    T.S.O. III
87-34-CM     10-19-87    T.S.O. III
87-17-CM     11-2-87     152.01
87-38-CM     11-16-87    T.S.O. III
87-39-CM     12-7-87     T.S.O. III
87-40-CM     12-7-87     T.S.O. III
87-41-CM     12-7-87     T.S.O. III
87-45-CL     12-8-87     T.S.O. I
88-44-CM     - -88       94.15—
                         94.21
88-3-CM      1-18-88     T.S.O. III
22-88-CM     6-6-88      T.S.O. III
88-24-CM     6-6-88      159.01
88-33-CM     10-17-88    T.S.O. III
88-40-CM     11-7-88     155.01
88-41-CM     12-5-88     34.50
88-42-CM     12-5-88     31.166
88-43-CM     12-5-88     34.51
89-14-CM     3-20-89     31.025
89-15-CM     3-24-89     34.47
89-23-CM     5-16-89     94.15—
                         94.21
89-37-CM     11-1-89     155.01
89-46-CM     12-18-89    31.135
90-12-CM     5-7-90      155.01
90-25-CM     12-31-90    T.S.O. III
91-04-CM     3-18-91     Chapter 72, Schedule I
91-13-CM     6-20-91     50.58
91-20-CM     8-26-91     34.58
91-23-CL     9-3-91      34.58
91-18-CL     9-10-91     152.01
91-34-CM     12-19-91    35.02
91-35-CM     12-19-91    35.03
92-08-CM     4-20-92     33.02
92-18-CM     9-8-92      155.01
92-20-CM     10-19-92    T.S.O. III
93-04-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-05-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-12-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-13-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-14-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-15-CM     3-22-93     Chapter 72, Schedule I
93-19-CM     6-21-93     70.04,
                         70.99
93-28-CM     12-6-93     T.S.O. III
93-30-CM     12-27-93    T.S.O. III
                         32.01—
                         32.04,
                         32.16—
94-02-CM     1-17-94     32.24,
                         32.35—
                         32.45,
                         32.99
94-05-CM     2-7-94      T.S.O. III
93-18-CM     2-22-94     155.01
94-06-CM     2-22-94     T.S.O. III
94-13-CM     5-2-94      T.S.O. III
94-14-CM     6-20-94     34.29
                         94.01—
94-17-CM     6-20-94     94.06,
                         94.99
94-25-CL     7-12-94     34.56
                         156.01—
94-23-CM     7-25-94     156.07,
                         156.99
94-34-CM     8-1-94      T.S.O. III
94-27-CM     8-15-94     Chapter 72, Schedule I
94-28-CM     8-15-94     Chapter 72, Schedule I
94-29-CM     8-15-94     Chapter 72, Schedule I
94-30-CM     8-15-94     Chapter 72, Schedule I
94-31-CM     8-15-94     Chapter 72, Schedule I
94-40-CM     9-6-94      T.S.O. III
94-53-CM     12-19-94    155.01
94-54-CM     12-19-94    155.01
94-57-CM     12-19-94    T.S.O. III
95-04-CM     2-6-95      Chapter 72, Schedule III(A)
95-05-CM     2-6-95      Chapter 72, Schedule IV
95-22-CM     3-6-95      T.S.O. III
95-08-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-09-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-10-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-11-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-12-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-14-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-15-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-16-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-18-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-19-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-20-CM     4-3-95      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-24-CM     4-3-95      T.S.O. III
95-25-CM     4-3-95      T.S.O. III
95-29-CM     6-5-95      34.30
95-31-CM     6-19-95     34.31
95-32-CM     6-19-95     34.32,
                         34.49
95-33-CM     7-3-95      35.04
95-35-CM     7-3-95      31.016
95-36-CM     7-17-95     T.S.O. III
95-51-CM     10-2-95     34.71
95-41-CM     10-16-95    Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-56-CM     11-20-95    T.S.O. III
95-55-CM     12-4-95     34.33
95-52-CM     12-18-95    Chapter 72, Schedule III(A);
                         Chapter 72, Schedule III(B); Chapter 72, Schedule IV
96-22-CM     2-5-96      T.S.O. III
96-14-CM     2-20-96     71.02
96-27-CM     3-22-96     159.01
96-20-CM     3-24-96     Chapter 72, Schedule III(A)
96-30-CM     6-3-96      32.56
96-39-CM     7-22-96     Chapter 72, Schedule I
96-47-CM     8-19-96     Chapter 72, Schedule I
96-46-CM     9-3-96      Chapter 72, Schedule I
95-46-CM     9-5-96      T.S.O. III
96-13-CM     11-11-96    152.01
96-62-CL     12-10-96    T.S.O. I
96-63-CM     12-16-96    T.S.O. I
97-30-CM     7-17-97     T.S.O. III
97-41-CM     10-20-97    Chapter 72, Schedule III(A); Chapter 72, Schedule IV
97-51-CM     11-24-97    157.01
97-52-CM     12-1-97     T.S.O. IV
97-53-CM     12-1-97     T.S.O. IV
98-14-CM     - -98       T.S.O. IV
98-01-CM     1-5-98      T.S.O. IV
98-04-CM     2-2-98      T.S.O. IV
98-06-CM     2-17-98     T.S.O. III
98-10-CM     3-2-98      T.S.O. IV
98-12-CM     3-2-98      157.01
98-08-CM     3-3-98      T.S.O. IV
98-11-CM     3-3-98      159.01
98-13-CM     4-6-98      157.01
98-16-CM     5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
98-17-CM     5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
98-18-CM     5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
98-19-CM     5-4-98      T.S.O. IV
98-24-CM     6-1-98      T.S.O. IV
98-25-CM     6-1-98      T.S.O. IV
98-26-CM     6-1-98      T.S.O. IV
98-28-CM     6-1-98      T.S.O. IV
98-29-CM     6-15-98     Chapter 72, Schedule II
98-30-CM     6-15-98     Chapter 72, Schedule I
98-31-CM     6-15-98     T.S.O. III
                         34.10 -
98-33-CM     6-15-98     34.12,
                         34.17
98-34-CM     7-6-98      T.S.O. IV
98-35-CM     7-6-98      T.S.O. IV
98-36-CM     7-6-98      157.01
98-37-CM     7-6-98      T.S.O. III
98-38-CM     7-6-98      T.S.O. III
98-40-CM     8-3-98      T.S.O. IV
98-49-CM     9-5-98      T.S.O. IV
98-42-CM     9-8-98      T.S.O. IV
98-45-CM     9-8-98      T.S.O. IV
98-46-CM     9-8-98      T.S.O. IV
98-48-CM     9-8-98      T.S.O. III
98-41-CM     9-21-98     157.01
98-47-CM     11-2-98     157.01
98-50-CM     11-2-98     157.01
98-51-CM     11-2-98     157.01
98-52-CM     11-2-98     T.S.O. IV
98-53-CM     11-2-98     T.S.O. IV
98-55-CM     12-17-98    31.120—
                         31.122
99-08-CM     - -99       157.01
99-01-CM     1-6-99      T.S.O. IV
99-02-CM     2-1-99      T.S.O. IV
99-03-CM     2-1-99      T.S.O. IV
99-04-CM     2-1-99      T.S.O. IV
99-05-CM     2-1-99      T.S.O. IV
99-07-CM     3-1-99      34.45
99-09-CM     3-1-99      157.01
99-10-CM     3-15-99     T.S.O. III
99-11-CM     3-15-99     T.S.O. III
99-12-CM     4-5-99      T.S.O. IV
99-13-CM     4-5-99      T.S.O. IV
99-15-CM     5-3-99      Chapter 72, Schedule II
99-17-CM     5-3-99      70.02,
                         70.99
99-18-CM     5-3-99      Chapter 72, Schedule I
99-19-CM     5-3-99      T.S.O. IV
99-20-CM     5-3-99      157.01
99-21-CM     5-3-99      T.S.O. IV
99-22-CM     6-7-99      T.S.O. IV
99-24-CM     6-7-99      157.01
99-25-CM     6-7-99      T.S.O. IV
99-26-CM     6-7-99      T.S.O. IV
99-27-CM     6-21-99     T.S.O. III
99-28-CM     6-21-99     T.S.O. III
99-29-CM     7-6-99      157.01
99-31-CM     8-2-99      Chapter 72, Schedule III(A); Chapter 72, Schedule IV
99-32-CM     8-2-99      T.S.O. IV
99-35-CM     8-2-99      T.S.O. IV
99-33-CM     8-19-99     T.S.O. IV
99-34-CM     8-19-99     T.S.O. IV
99-37-CM     9-8-99      T.S.O. IV
99-38-CM     9-8-99      T.S.O. IV
99-43-CM     10-1-99     157.01
99-39-CM     10-4-99     T.S.O. IV
99-40-CM     10-4-99     T.S.O. IV
99-41-CM     10-4-99     157.01
99-45-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-46-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-48-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-49-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-50-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-51-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-52-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-53-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-54-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-55-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-56-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-57-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-58-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-59-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-60-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-61-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-62-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
99-63-CM     11-1-99     T.S.O. IV
                         51.01—
99-30-CM     11-15-99    51.12,
                         51.99
99-68-CM     12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
99-69-CM     12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
99-70-CM     12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
99-71-CM     12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
99-72-CM     12-6-99     T.S.O. IV
2000-50-CM   - -00       96.99
99-66-CM     1-3-00      34.55
2000-01-CM   1-3-00      157.01
2000-02-CM   1-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-03-CM   1-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-05-CM   2-7-00      157.01,
                         159.01
2000-06-CM   2-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-08-CM   2-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-09-CM   2-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-13-CM   2-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-14-CM   2-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-10-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-11-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-12-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-16-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-17-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-18-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-19-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-20-CM   3-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-15-CL   3-14-00     34.27
2000-21-CM   4-3-00      T.S.O. III
2000-23-CM   4-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-24-CM   4-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-25-CM   4-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-26-CM   4-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-28-CM   5-1-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-29-CM   5-1-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-30-CM   5-1-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-31-CM   5-1-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-35-CM   6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-36-CM   6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-37-CM   6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-38-CM   6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-39-CM   6-5-00      157.01
2000-40-CM   6-5-00      157.01
2000-41-CM   6-5-00      T.S.O. III
2000-42-CM   6-19-00     T.S.O. III
2000-43-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-44-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-45-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-46-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-47-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-48-00   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-49-CM   7-6-00      T.S.O. IV
                         93.01,
                         93.02,
2000-51-CM   7-6-00      93.15—
                         93.17,
                         93.99
2000-56-CM   8-7-00      157.01
2000-58-CM   8-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-61-CM   8-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-62-CM   8-7-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-54-CL   8-8-00      34.25
2000-55-CL   8-8-00      34.48
2000-64-CM   9-6-00      157.01
2000-66-CM   9-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-67-CM   9-6-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-53-CM   9-18-00     130.01,
                         130.99
2000-68-CM   10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-69-CM   10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-70-CM   10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-71-CM   10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-72-CM   10-2-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-74-CM   11-6-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-75-CM   11-6-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-76-CM   11-6-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-77-CM   11-6-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-79-CM   12-4-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-81-CM   12-18-00    T.S.O. III
2001-01-CM   1-3-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-02-CM   1-3-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-03-CM   1-3-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-04-CM   2-5-01      157.01
2001-05-CM   2-05-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-06-CM   2-20-01     T.S.O. III
2001-07-CM   2-20-01     34.35
2001-09-CM   4-2-01      31.120—
                         31.122
2001-14-CM   5-7-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-13-CL   5-8-01      34.53
2001-08-CM   5-21-01     31.175—
                         31.179
2001-15-CM   6-4-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-16-CM   6-4-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-18-CM   6-18-01     155.01
2001-19-CM   7-2-01      157.01
2001-23-CM   8-20-01     T.S.O. III
2001-25-CM   9-5-01      157.01
2001-26-CM   9-5-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-27-CM   9-5-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-20-CM   10-1-01     157.01
2001-28-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-29-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-30-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-32-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-33-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-34-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-35-CM   10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-36-CM   11-5-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-37-CM   11-5-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-38-CM   11-5-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-39-CM   11-5-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-40-CM   11-5-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-41-CM   11-7-01     34.59
2001-42-CM   12-3-01     157.01
2001-43-CM   12-3-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-44-CL   12-11-01    34.72
2001-45-CL   12-11-01    34.36
2001-47-CM   12-17-01    35.02,
                         35.03
2002-02-CM   1-7-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-03-CM   1-7-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-01-CL   1-15-02     34.60
2002-04-CL   1-15-02     34.61
2002-06-CM   1-24-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-04-CM   2-4-02      157.01
2002-11-CM   2-4-02      35.02,
                         35.03
2002-14-CM   3-4-02      157.01
2002-12-CL   2-12-02     34.25
2002-08-CM   2-19-02     Chapter 72, Schedule I
2002-09-CM   2-19-02     Chapter 72, Schedule III(A) and IV
2002-15-CM   3-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-16-CM   3-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-17-CM   3-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-18-CM   5-6-02      Chapter 72, Schedule III(A)
2002-20-CM   5-6-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-05-CM   5-8-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-19-CM   5-13-02     T.S.O. III
2002-21-CM   6-3-02      157.01
2002-26-CM   7-1-02      159.01
2002-27-CM   7-1-02      159.01
2002-28-CM   7-1-02      157.01
2002-29-CM   7-1-02      157.01
2002-30-CM   7-1-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-24-CM   8-5-02      155.01
2002-32-CM   8-5-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-31-CM   8-19-02     31.123,
                         34.62
2002-34-CM   9-4-02      157.01
2002-35-CM   9-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-36-CM   9-4-02      T.S.O. IV
2002-37-CM   10-7-02     34.32
2002-38-CM   10-7-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-39-CM   10-7-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-40-CM   11-4-02     96.19
2002-42-CM   11-4-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-43-CM   11-4-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-41-CL   11-12-02    34.60
2002-46-CM   12-2-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-47-CM   12-2-02     T.S.O. IV
2002-48-CM   12-2-02     T.S.O. IV
2003-02-CM   1-6-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-03-CM   1-6-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-06-CM   2-3-03      159.01
2003-07-CM   2-3-03      157.01
2003-05-CM   2-19-03     T.S.O. III
2003-10-CM   3-3-03      Chapter 72, Schedules III(A) and IV
2003-11-CM   3-3-03      Chapter 72, Schedule III(A)
2003-12-CM   3-3-03      T.S.O. III
2003-13-CM   3-3-03      T.S.O. III
2003-14-CM   4-7-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-15-CM   5-5-03      157.01
2003-16-CM   5-5-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-18-CM   5-5-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-19-CM   5-5-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-21-CM   5-5-03      Chapter 72, Schedule I
2003-22-CM   5-5-03      Chapter 72, Schedule I
2003-23-CM   5-5-03      Chapter 72, Schedule I
2003-26-CM   6-2-03      157.01
2003-27-CM   6-2-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-28-CM   6-2-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-29-CM   7-1-03      71.03
2003-30-CM   8-4-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-31-CM   7-7-03      T.S.O. III
2003-32-CM   7-7-03      T.S.O. III
2003-33-CM   8-4-03      157.01
2003-34-CM   8-18-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-35-CM   8-4-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-36-CM   8-4-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-37-CM   7-21-03     T.S.O. III
2003-38-CM   8-4-03      157.01
2003-39-CM   8-4-03      157.10
2003-41-CM   9-3-03      157.01
2003-43-CM   9-3-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-43-CM   10-6-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-44-CM   11-3-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-45-CM   11-13-03    31.205—
                         31.210
2003-46-CM   11-17-03    T.S.O. III
2003-47-CM   12-1-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-48-CM   12-1-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-49-CM   12-1-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-50-CM   12-1-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-51-CM   12-29-03    31.215
2004-01-CM   1-5-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-02-CL   1-13-04     34.25
2004-03-CM   1-12-04     T.S.O. III
2004-04-CM   2-2-04      157.01
2004-05-CM   2-2-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-06-CL   2-10-04     34.63
2004-07-CM   3-1-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-08-CM   3-1-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-10-CM   4-5-04      157.01
2004-11-CM   4-5-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-12-CM   5-3-04      157.01
2004-13-CM   5-3-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-16-CL   6-1-04      34.75
2004-17-CM   6-7-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-18-CM   6-7-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-20-CM   6-21-04     34.35
2004-21-CM   7-6-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-22-CM   7-6-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-23-CM   7-6-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-24-CM   7-19-04     Chapter 72, Schedule I
2004-25-CM   7-6-04      Chapter 72, Schedule I
2004-26-CM   8-16-04     Adopting Ordinance
2004-27-CM   8-2-04      34.29,
                         34.37
2004-28-CM   8-2-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-30-CM   9-7-04      157.01
2004-32-CM   10-4-04     157.01
2004-33-CM   10-4-04     T.S.O. IV
2004-34-CM   10-4-04     T.S.O. IV
2004-35-CM   9-20-04     T.S.O. III
2004-36-CM   11-1-04     157.01
2004-37-CM   11-1-04     T.S.O. III
2004-38-CM   11-1-04     T.S.O. IV
2004-40-CM   11-6-04     T.S.O. IV
2005-01-CM   3-7-05      Chapter 72, Schedules I—IV
2005-02-CM   3-7-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-03-CM   1-4-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-04-CM   2-7-05      155.01
2005-05-CM   2-7-05      157.01
2005-06-CM   2-7-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-07-CM   2-7-05      151.09,
                         151.99
2005-08-CM   3-7-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-09-CM   4-4-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-11-CM   5-2-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-12-CM   5-2-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-13-CM   5-16-05     151A.01—
                         151A.03
                         151.01—
                         151.15,
2005-14-CM   5-16-05     151.25—
                         151.29,
                         151.99
2005-16-CM   6-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-17-CM   6-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-18-CM   6-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-19-CM   6-20-05     32.15
2005-20-CM   6-6-05      34.52
2005-22-CM   7-5-05      157.01
2005-23-CM   7-5-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-24-CM   7-5-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-25-CM   7-18-05     T.S.O. III
2005-26-CM   8-1-05      Ch. 72, Schedule III
2005-27-CM   8-1-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-28-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-29-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-30-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-31-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-32-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-33-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-34-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-35-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-37-CM   9-6-05      T.S.O. III
2005-38-CM   9-19-05     Ch. 72, Schedule III
2005-39-CM   10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-40-CM   10-3-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-42-CM   11-7-05     34.54
2005-43-CM   11-1-05     31.123
2005-50-CM   12-5-05     Ch. 72, Schedules I,
                         III
2005-51-CMBD 12-19-05    155.18
2005-52-CM   12-5-05     T.S.O. IV
2006-01-CL   2-14-06     34.27
2006-02-CM   2-6-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-03-CM   2-6-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-04-CM   4-17-06     31.124
2006-05-CM   3-6-06      157.01
2006-05-CM   3-6-06      157.01
2006-07-CM   6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-08-CM   6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-09-CM   6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-10-CM   6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-12-CM   7-3-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-13-CM   8-7-06      157.01
2006-14-CM   8-7-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-15-CM   8-7-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-16-CM   8-7-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-17-CM   8-21-06     Ch. 72, Schedules III, IV
2006-18-CM   8-21-06     T.S.O. III
2006-19-CM   9-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-20-CM   9-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-22-CM   9-25-06     T.S.O. III
2006-23-CM   10-2-06     157.01
2006-24-CM   11-20-06    Ch. 72, Schedule I
2006-28-CM   - -         T.S.O. IV
                         112.01 -
2006-30-CM   12-4-06     112.03,
                         112.20
                         160.01,
2006-31-CM   12-18-06    160.02,
                         160.10
2007-01-CM   1-2-07      157.01
2007-02-CM   1-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-03-CM   1-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-05-CM   1-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-06-CM   1-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-07-CM   2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-08-CM   2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-09-CM   2-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-10-CM   2-5-07      Ch. 72, Schedules III, IV
2007-11-CM   3-5-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-13-CM   3-5-07      T.S.O. III
2007-14-CM   4-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-16-CM   4-2-07      T.S.O. III
2007-18-CM   4-16-07     34.37
                         110.001—
                         110.005,
                         110.015—
                         110.022,
                         110.035—
                         110.040,
                         110.055—
2007-19-CM   6-4-07      110.061,
                         110.070—
                         110.085,
                         110.100, 100.101,
                         110.115—
                         110.120,
                         110.130—
                         110.134,
                         110.999
                         112.01—
2007-20-CM   5-21-07     112.03,
                         112.20
2007-23-CM   7-2-07      Ch. 72, Sch. III
2007-24-CM   7-2-07      157.01
2007-25-CM   7-2-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-27-CM   8-6-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-28-CM   8-6-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-29-CM   8-6-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-30-CM   8-6-07      157.01
2007-32-CM   9-4-07      T.S.O. IV
2007-33-CM   9-4-07      Ch. 72, Sch. III
2007-36-CM   10-1-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-38-CM   11-5-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-39-CM   11-5-07     Adopting Ordinance
                         112.01 -
2007-40-CM   12-3-07     112.03,
                         112.20
2007-42-CM   12-3-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-43-CM   12-3-07     T.S.O. IV
                         Ch. 72, Schedules
2008-03-CM   1-22-08     III,
                         IV
2008-04-CM   2-4-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-05-CM   2-4-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-06-CM   3-3-08      157.01
2008-07-CM   3-3-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-08-CM   3-18-08     T.S.O. III
2008-09-CM   4-7-08      157.01
2008-10-CM   4-7-08      157.01
2008-11-CM   5-19-08     T.S.O. III
2008-12-CM   7-7-08      34.33
2008-14-CM   8-4-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-15-CM   8-4-08      T.S.O. IV
2008-16-CM   9-2-08      31.300 —
                         31.305
2008-17-CM   10-6-08     34.696
2008-21-CM   11-3-08     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2008-22-CM   11-3-08     T.S.O. IV
2008-23-CM   11-17-08    T.S.O. IV
2008-25-CM   11-17-08    33.03
                         34.01 -
2008-26-CM   12-1-08     34.15,
                         34.17 -
                         34.19
2009-01-CM   2-2-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-02-CM   3-2-09      Ch. 72, Schedules III,
                         IV
2009-04-CM   4-4-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-05-CM   5-18-09     T.S.O. IV
2009-06-CM   5-18-09     T.S.O. IV
2009-07-CM   5-18-09     Ch 72, Sch. I
2009-08-CM   4-6-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-09-CM   5-18-09     31.035
2009-10-CM   6-1-09      157.01
2009-11-CM   8-3-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-13-CM   9-8-09      159.01
2009-14-CM   9-8-09      157.01
2009-15-CM   9-8-09      157.01
2009-16-CM   9-8-09      T.S.O. IV
2009-17-CM   10-5-09     T.S.O. IV
2009-21-CM   12-21-09    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2009-22-CM   11-2-09     T.S.O. III
2009-23-CM   11-2-09     T.S.O. IV
2009-24-CM   11-2-09     T.S.O. IV
2009-25-CL   11-10-09    34.39
2009-27-CM   12-7-09     157.01
                         Ch. 72, Schedules
2010-01-CM   2-16-10     I,
                         III,
                         IV
2010-02-CM   4-5-10      161.01—
                         161.22
2010-03-CM   4-5-10      151A.04
2010-04-CM   3-15-10     Adopting Ordinance
2010-05-CM   4-5-10      T.S.O. IV
2010-06-CM   4-5-10      T.S.O. IV
2010-07-CM   4-5-10      157.01
                         Ch. 72, Schedules
2010-08-CM   6-7-10      I,
                         II
2010-09-CM   6-7-10      157.01
2010-10-CM   7-6-10      T.S.O. IV
2010-11-CM   8-2-10      T.S.O. IV
2010-12-CM   8-2-10      157.01
2010-13-CM   8-2-10      157.01
2010-14-CM   9-20-10     Ch. 72, Sch. I
2010-17-CM   9-7-10      157.01
2010-18-CM   9-7-10      157.01
2010-19-CM   9-7-10      T.S.O. III
2010-20-CM   10-4-10     70.03,
                         Ch. 72, Sch. II
2010-21-CM   10-4-10     157.01
2010-23-CL   12-14-10    34.73
2010-24-CM   2-21-11     161.01—
                         161.22
2011-01-CM   1-3-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-01-CMDB 1-18-11     155.18
2011-02-CM   1-3-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-03-CM   1-3-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-04-CM   1-3-11      157.01
2011-05-CM   2-7-11      34.691
2011-06-CM   2-8-11      34.27
2011-07-CM   2-7-11      157.01
2011-08-CM   3-7-11      Ch. 72, Schedule I
2011-09-CM   3-7-11      34.29,
                         112.20
2011-10-CM   4-4-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-11-CM   5-2-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-12-CM   5-2-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-13-CM   6-6-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-14-CM   6-20-11     T.S.O. III
2011-15-CM   7-5-11      157.01
2011-16-CM   7-5-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-17-CM   7-5-11      130.01
2011-18-CM   8-1-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-19-CM   8-15-11     31.100—
                         31.104
2011-20-CM   9-6-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-21-CM   9-6-11      T.S.O. IV
                         73.01—
2011-24-CM   10-17-11    73.13,
                         73.99
2011-25-CM   11-7-11     T.S.O. III
2011-27-CM   12-5-11     155.01
2011-28-CM   11-7-11     T.S.O. IV
2011-29-CM   11-7-11     T.S.O. IV
2011-30-CM   11-21-11    31.400—
                         31.402
2011-31-CM   12-28-11    35.01—
                         35.04
2012-01-CM   1-3-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-02-CM   1-3-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-05-CM   2-6-12      Ch. 72, Schedule I
2012-06-CM   2-6-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-08-CM   2-6-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-09-CM   2-6-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-12-CM   2-20-12     50.58
2012-13-CM   3-5-12      151.06
2012-14-CM   3-5-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-15-CM   4-2-12      34.31
2012-16-CM   4-2-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-17-CM   4-2-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-19-CM   6-4-12      T.S.O. III
2012-20-CM   6-4-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-21-CM   6-18-12     36.01—
                         36.05
2012-22-CM   7-2-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-23-CM   8-6-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-24-CM   9-4-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-25-CM   9-4-12      T.S.O. IV
2012-28-CM   10-1-12     T.S.O. IV
2012-33-CM   11-5-12     157.01
2012-34-CM   11-19-12    T.S.O. IV
2012-35-CL   11-13-12    34.40
2013-01-CM   1-7-13      159.01
2013-02-CM   1-7-13      159.01
2013-03-CM   2-19-13     Ch. 72, Schedule I
2013-04-CM   2-4-13      T.S.O. IV
                         Ch. 72, Schedules I,
2013-05-CM   3-4-13      III,
                         IV,
                         V
2013-06-CM   2-19-13     34.38
2013-08-CM   3-4-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-09-CM   3-4-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-10-CM   3-18-13     Ch. 72, Schedule III
2013-12-CM   4-1-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-13-CM   4-1-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-15-CM   4-1-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-16-CM   4-1-13      157.01
13-17-CM     5-6-13      T.S.O. III
2013-18-CM   5-6-13      157.01
2013-19-CM   5-6-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-20-CM   7-1-13      T.S.O. III
2013-21-CM   6-7-13      T.S.O. III
2013-22-CM   6-3-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-23-CM   7-1-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-24-CM   7-1-13      157.01
                         97.01—
2013-25-CM   8-19-13     97.04,
                         97.99
2013-27-CM   10-7-13     T.S.O. III
2013-28-CM   9-3-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-29-CM   9-3-13      T.S.O. IV
2013-31-CM   11-4-13     T.S.O. III
2013-32-CM   10-7-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-33-CM   10-7-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-34-CM   10-7-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-35-CM   10-7-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-36-CM   10-7-13     157.01
2013-40-CM   11-4-13     Ch. 72, Schedule I
2013-41-CM   11-4-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-42-CM   11-18-13    Adopting Ordinance
2013-43-CM   12-2-13     157.01
2013-44-CM   12-2-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-45-CM   12-2-13     T.S.O. IV
2013-46-CM   12-16-13    160.10
2013-47-CM   12-16-13    93.18
2014-01-CM   2-3-14      157.01
2014-02-CM   2-3-14      159.01
2014-04-CM   5-5-14      157.01
2014-05-CM   5-5-14      159.01
2014-06-CM   6-2-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-07-CM   6-2-14      T.S.O. IV
                         162.01—
2014-08-CM   7-7-14      162.06,
                         162.99
2014-09-CM   7-7-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-10-CM   7-7-14      157.01
2014-11-CM   8-4-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-12-CM   8-4-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-13-CM   9-2-14      157.01
2014-14-CM   9-2-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-19-CM   11-3-14     T.S.O. IV
2014-21-CL   12-9-14     34.75
2014-22-CM   12-1-14     T.S.O. IV
2014-23-CM   12-1-14     T.S.O. IV
                         90.01—
2014-24-CM   12-15-14    90.12,
                         90.99
2015-01-CM   1-5-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-02-CM   1-5-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-04-CM   2-2-15      T.S.O. III
2015-06-CM   3-3-15      T.S.O. III
2015-07-CM   4-20-15     T.S.O. IV
2015-08-CM   4-20-15     T.S.O. IV
                         Ch. 72, Schedules
2015-09-CM   4-20-15     III,
                         IV,
                         V
2015-10-CM   5-4-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-11-CM   6-1-15      T.S.O. III
2015-12-CM   5-18-15     94.10
2015-13-CM   6-15-15     113.01—
                         113.25
2015-14-CM   7-6-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-15-CM   7-6-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-16-CM   7-6-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-17-CM   9-8-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-19-CM   10-5-15     157.01
2015-20-CM   10-5-15     157.01
2015-22-CM   11-2-15     T.S.O. IV
2015-24-CM   11-2-15     31.016
2015-25-CM   11-16-15    T.S.O. III
2015-26-CM   12-7-15     T.S.O. III
2015-27-CM   12-21-15    34.68
                         112.01—
2016-03-CM   2-1-16      112.03,
                         112.20
2016-04-CM   2-1-16      T.S.O. III
2016-05-CM   3-7-16      112.20
2016-06-CM   3-7-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-07-CM   3-7-16      T.S.O. III
                         Ch. 72, Schedules
2016-08-CM   3-21-16     I,
                         III,
                         IV
2016-10-CM   7-18-16     T.S.O. III
2016-11-CM   8-1-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-12-CM   8-1-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-13-CM   8-1-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-14-CM   8-1-16      T.S.O. IV
2016-15-CL   8-9-16      34.27
2016-18-CM   9-6-16      31.176
2016-19-CL   10-11-16    34.95
2016-22-CM   10-3-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-24-CM   11-7-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-25-CM   11-7-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-26-CM   11-7-16     157.01
2016-27-CM   11-21-16    Ch. 72, Schedule I
2016-28-CM   12-5-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-29-CM   12-5-16     T.S.O. IV
2016-30-CM   12-5-16     31.070
2017-01-CM   2-6-17      Ch. 72, Schedule III
2017-02-CM   4-3-17      157.01
2017-03-CM   4-3-17      157.01
2017-04-CM   5-1-17      155.01
2017-05-CM   4-3-17      34.57
2017-06-CM   5-1-17      T.S.O. IV
2017-07-CM   5-1-17      157.01
2017-08-CM   6-5-17      T.S.O. IV
2017-09-CM   6-5-17      159.01
2017-10-CM   6-5-17      34.41
2017-11-CM   7-3-17      T.S.O. IV
2017-12-CM   7-17-17     Ch. 72, Schedule III
2017-13-CM   8-7-17      T.S.O. IV
2017-14-CM   8-7-17      157.01
2017-15-CM   9-5-17      T.S.O. IV
2017-18-CM   10-2-17     T.S.O. IV
2017-19-CM   10-2-17     157.01
2018-1-CM    1-2-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-02-CM   1-16-18     Ch. 72, Schedule III
2018-04-CM   2-5-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-05-CM   2-5-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-09      3-5-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-10-CM   4-2-18      T.S.O. IV
2018-11-CM   4-2-18      155.18
2018-12-CM   5-7-18      T.S.O. IV
                         31.100—
2018-13-CM   5-7-18      31.102,
                         31.120—
                         31.122
2018-14-CM   6-4-18      157.01
                         112.01—
2018-15-CM   9-4-18      112.03,
                         112.20
                         95.01—
                         95.05,
                         95.20—
2018-16-CM   9-17-18     95.26,
                         95.40—
                         95.44,
                         95.99
2018-17-CM   9-4-18      92.01—
                         92.04
2018-21-CM   10-1-18     34.20
2018-23-CM   11-5-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-24-CM   11-19-18    112.20
2018-25-CM   11-19-18    Ch. 72, Sch. I, 
                         III
2019-01-CM   1-7-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-02-CM   1-7-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-03-CM   2-4-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-04-CM   2-4-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-05-CM   2-4-19      159.01
2019-7-CM    3-18-19     31.035
2019-08-CM   5-6-19      151A.04
2019-09-CM   4-1-19      157.01
                         51.06,
2019-10-CM   5-6-19      51.10—
                         51.14,
                         51.99
                         94.01-
2019-11-CM   4-1-19      94.09,
                         94.99
2019-12-CM   5-6-19      157.01
2019-13-CM   5-6-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-14-CM   5-6-19      T.S.O. IV
2019-15-CM   6-3-19      34.54
2019-17-CL   7-9-19      34.27
2019-18-CM   7-15-19     T.S.O. III
2019-19-CM   8-19-19     50.03
2019-20-CM   8-19-19     34.29
2019-25-CM   9-3-19   T.S.O. IV
2019-26-CM   9-3-19   151.16
2019-27-CM   10-21-19    32.55,
                         32.56
2019-28-CM   11-4-19     T.S.O. IV
2019-29-CM   11-18-19    155.18
                         90.01—
2019-30-CM   12-2-19     90.13,
                         90.99
2019-31-CM   12-2-19     T.S.O. IV
2020-01-CM   3-2-20      T.S.O. IV
                         74.01—
2020-02-CM   3-16-20     74.03,
                         74.99
2020-03-CM   6-1-20   T.S.O. IV
2020-04-CM   6-1-20   T.S.O. IV
2020-05-CM   6-1-20   T.S.O. IV
2020-06-CM   6-1-20   T.S.O. IV
2020-07-CM   7-6-20   T.S.O. IV
2020-13-CM   9-8-20      T.S.O. IV
2020-14-CM   9-8-20      157.01
2020-17-CM   10-5-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-18-CM   11-2-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-19-CM   11-2-20     157.01
2020-20-CM   12-7-20     T.S.O. IV
                         Ch. 72, Schedules I,
2021-01-CM   1-4-21      III,
                         IV,
                         V
                         30.01,
                         30.16,
                         30.25,
2021-02-CM   3-1-21      31.025,
                         31.065,
                         34.04,
                         34.47,
                         34.51
2021-03-CM   2-1-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-04-CM   2-1-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-05-CM   2-1-21      157.01
2021-06-CM   3-1-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-09-CM   5-3-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-10-CM   5-3-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-11-CM   5-3-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-12-CM   6-7-21   T.S.O. IV
2021-14-CM   7-6-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-15-CM   7-6-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-16-CM   7-19-21     74.02,
                         74.03
2021-17-CM   8-2-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-18-CM   8-2-21      T.S.O. IV
2021-19-CM   8-2-21      157.01
2021-20-CM   8-2-21      157.01
2021-26-CM   9-7-21      157.01
2021-27-CM   10-4-21     31.401
2021-28-CM   10-4-21     T.S.O. IV
2021-29-CM   10-4-21     T.S.O. IV
2021-30-CM   10-4-21     159.01
2021-31-CM   11-15-21    96.02,
                         96.18
2021-32-CM   11-15-21    T.S.O. III
2021-33-CM   11-15-21    94.17
2021-34-CM   12-28-21    35.02,
                         35.03
2022-02-CM   3-21-22     157.01
2022-04-CM   5-2-22      T.S.O. IV
                         110.004,
                         110.005,
2022-05-CM   5-16-22     110.056,
                         110.057,
                         110.999
2022-06-CM   6-6-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-07-CM   6-6-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-08-CM   6-6-22      157.01
2022-10-CM   7-18-22     70.05
2022-12-CM   8-1-22      157.01
2022-13-CM   - -22       157.01
2022-19-CL   9-13-22     34.27
2022-20-CM   - -22       T.S.O. IV
2022-21-CM   10-3-22     T.S.O. IV
2022-22-CM   11-7-22     T.S.O. IV
2023-01-CM   1-3-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-02-CM   2-6-23      155.01
2023-03-CM   2-6-23      157.01
2023-04-CM   2-6-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-05-CM   4-3-23      34.29,
                         112.20
2023–06-CM 3-20-23     157.01
2023-07-CM   4-4-23      31.207
2023-08-CM   5-15-23     T.S.O. III
2023-09-CM   5-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2023–10-CM 5-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-12-CM   5-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-13-CM   5-1-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-14-CM   6-5-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-15-CM   6-5-23      T.S.O. IV
2023-16-CM   7-8-23      T.S.O. IV
                        
 
