TOPEKA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-12-16, passed - -;
Res. 2024-10-14, passed 10-14-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Copies of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Topeka Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. LaGrange County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Topeka, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a non-severability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in a prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2013 Code,
Title         , Ch.          , §       )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   Immediately upon adoption of the town code, it shall be reproduced in
a loose-leaf form. The governing body, by motion or resolution, shall fix, and
change from time to time as considered necessary, the prices to be charged for
copies of the town code and revisions thereto. After adoption of the town code,
each general ordinance shall be adopted as amending, adding or deleting a
numbered section or sections of said code; immediately thereafter, those
affected pages of the town code shall be revised to reflect such amended, added
or deleted material and shall be distributed to town officers and employees
having copies of said code and to other persons who have requested and paid for
current revisions. Notes shall be inserted at the end of amended or new
sections, referring to the dates and numbers of ordinances making the
amendments or adding the new sections, and such references shall be cumulative
if a section is amended more than once, in order that the current copy of the
town code will contain references to all ordinances passed since the adoption
of the original town code.
(2013 Code, Title I, Ch. 1, § 7)
   (B)   Three copies of the town code, maintained currently up to date, shall
be kept available in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office for public use and
inspection at all reasonable times. The Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall
also make available for public use a copy of the town code online.
(2013 Code, Title I, Ch. 1, § 8)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
32.   PURCHASING POLICIES
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Voting districts
   
30.02   Use of convention method to nominate major party candidates
Officials
   
30.15   Town Manager
   
30.16   Town Marshal
Organizations
   
30.30   Legislative body
   
30.31   Town Park Authority
   
30.32   Development Commission
   
30.33   Violation Bureau
   
30.34   Area Planning Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town legislative body districts are abolished in the town.
   (B)   (1)   All members of the town legislative body shall complete their
current terms, but the next election for such seat (Trustee) shall be an
election at large.
      (2)   All members of the legislative body shall be elected at large by
entire town.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 33) (Ord. I-F-4-a(1), passed - -; Ord. I-F-4-b(1),
passed - -; Ord. I-F-4-b(2), passed 4-27-1992)
§ 30.02 USE OF CONVENTION METHOD TO NOMINATE MAJOR PARTY CANDIDATES.
   The town specifically has decided to utilize the convention method as
described in I.C. 3-8-5-1 et seq. and if and when more than one candidate from
the same political party files a declaration of candidacy for the same office,
said party shall conduct a town convention as provided more fully in I.C. 3-8-
5-10. This section is created for the sole purpose of clarifying the specific
state statutes and procedures utilized by said town in resolving multi-
candidate declarations for the same political office.
(Ord. 2019-3-11, passed 3-11-2019)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Employment, compensation and qualifications.
      (1)   The Town Council may employ a town executive to be known as a Town
Manager. The Town Council shall fix compensation, benefits and terms of
employment; provided only that, the duration of employment shall be at the
pleasure of the Council or for a definite tenure not to exceed the term in
office of the appointing Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall be the administrative head of the town
government and be employed solely with regard to merit and on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications. Town Council shall not employ one
of its members as Town Manager.
      (3)   The Town Manager need not be a resident of the town at the time of
appointment by the Town Council, but may reside outside the town while employed
as Town Manager only with the approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Town Council for the
proper administration of all of the affairs and administrative duties of the
town which the Town Council has the authority to control.
      (2)    Attend the meetings of the Town Council, Park Authority and
Economic Development Commission, necessary for the efficient operation and
planning of the town and such other meetings as requested or required by the
Town Council;
         (a)   Attend the meetings of the Town Council, Board of Parks and
Recreation and Economic Development Commission, necessary for the efficient
operation and planning of the town and such other meetings as requested or
required by the Town Council;
         (b)   Hire all town employees to fill positions authorized by the Town
Council in accordance with pay schedule standards fixed by the Town Council or
by statute;
         (c)   Except for Town Marshal Department personnel, and subject to the
final approval of the Town Council, suspend, remove or transfer town employees;
         (d)   Delegate any powers to a subordinate employee;
         (e)   Administer the execution of all orders, ordinances and
resolutions of the town and Town Council, and see to the enforcement of laws of
the state that are required to be enforced through the Town Council or other
town officials, subject to the control of the Town Council;
         (f)   Prepare budget estimated and submit them to the Town Council
when required;
         (g)   Recommend to the Town Council adoption of such measures which
are deemed necessary or useful to the health, safety and welfare of the
community or the improvement of administration or delivery of services;
         (h)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment
in accordance with town ordinances and state statutes;
         (i)   Receive service of summons on behalf of the town;
         (j)   Execute contracts on behalf of the town for materials, supplies,
services or improvements, after completion of the appropriation, notice and
competitive bidding required by stature;
         (k)   Appoint and remove heads of departments, subject to the advice,
consent and final authority of the Town Council; and
         (l)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Town
Council, not inconsistent with ordinance, statute or state law.
   (C)   Police disciplinary matters. The Town Manager may not serve as a
member of any body that hears disciplinary charges against a member of the
town’s Marshal Department.
   (D)   Acting Town Manager. The Town Council may appoint a qualified person
to perform the duties of Town Manager whenever he or she is absent or unable to
perform the duties of Town Manager.
   (E)   Issuance of warrants or execution of bonds. The Town Council may not
authorize the Manager to issue or execute bonds, notes, warrants of the town.
   (F)   Outside employment. During his or her term of employment, the Town
Manager shall not engage in any other business activity without the express
written approval of the Town Council.
   (G)   Termination. The employment of the Town Manager may be terminated in
accordance with the terms provided for in the Town Manager’s agreement of
employment.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 23) (Ord. I-F-2-b(8), passed 5-29-2002)
§ 30.16 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   There is hereby created, adopted and pursuant to the laws of the state
retroactively put into place the office of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall have all those duties as are defined by state
statute for town marshals, and shall further be authorized to deputize
individuals pursuant to the laws of the state.
   (C)   The Town Council does hereby further approve and create a Town
Reserve, such Reserve officers answering to the Town Marshal.
   (D)   The budget of the Town Marshal shall be approved by the Town Council;
all employment selections of the Town Marshal shall first be approved by the
Town Council and the Town Marshal shall be appointed by and serve a the
pleasure of the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 24) (Ord. I-F-2-a, passed 5-22-1995)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.30 LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   (A)   The town’s legislative body shall be increased to a five-member body.
   (B)   All such Council members shall be elected at large.
   (C)   Said new Council members shall be appointed pursuant to I.C. 3-13-9-4.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-3, each new member shall serve a term of
office of four years, beginning at noon 1-1-2013 and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 35) (Ord. 2012-11-12, passed 12-10-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Electronic meetings policy, see §
34.10
§ 30.31 TOWN PARK AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Department of Parks and Recreation, and the Board of Parks
and Recreation, organized under I.C. 36-10-2 and 36-10-3, shall be dissolved
upon passage of this section.
   (B)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the Park Authority, and
charged with the management of all town parks, including approaches.
(Authority, I.C. 36-10-5-2(b)(2)(C))
   (C)   The Town Council, as Park Authority, may adopt rules concerning the
laying out, improvement, preservation, ornamentation, and management of the
parks.
   (D)   The Town Council shall appoint a person to serve as the Director of
the Topeka Parks, and said Director shall have discretion to hire employees to
carry out the day-to-day functions of managing the parks and recreation
facilities of the town, subject to the approval of the Park Authority.
   (E)   The Director of the Topeka Parks shall report regularly to the Park
Authority when it meets as the Town Council.
   (F)   The rules and regulations and fees set forth in §§
92.01 through
92.03 and
92.99 are hereby reaffirmed as the current rules, regulations, and fees for the
town parks.
   (G)   All books, documents, and other property of the former Board of Parks
and Recreation shall be transferred to the town and owned, held, and maintained
as all other municipally owned property, subject to the governance of the Park
Authority.
   (H)   All employees of the former Department of Parks and Recreation, except
for the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, shall become employees of the
newly created executive department known as Topeka Parks, and subject to the
governing authority of the Park Authority.
(Ord. 2021-16, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 30.32 DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the Town Development Commission which
shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Three of the members shall be appointed by the Chairperson of
the Town Council;
         (b)   Two of the members shall be nominated by the Town Council; and
         (c)   One of the members, a non-voting advisory member, shall be
nominated by the Chairperson of the Town Council and shall be a member of the
Westview Community School Corporation Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Commission members shall take office upon their appointment and
their terms shall run the following number of years from February 1 following
such original appointment. The Commissioner selected by the Chairperson of the
Town Council shall serve for a period of one year, the Commissioner appointed
by the Town Council for a term of two years and the Commissioner appointed by
the County Council for a term of three years from February 1 following the date
of such appointment. At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the
Commissioners originally appointed, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated in the same manner as the original appointee, each of
the nominees shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Town Council within
ten days after receiving such nominations, and each succeeding member shall
serve for a term of four years. In the event any person appointed as
Commissioner shall fail to qualify, or shall die, resign or vacate such office,
or be removed therefrom, a new member shall be chosen and appointed to fill
such vacancy as provided by law. Commissioners shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until their respective successors have been duly
appointed and have qualified. Such Commissioners shall receive no salaries, but
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be appointed as a Commissioner who is not either
a resident of such town, employed in such town or owner of a business in such
town. If any Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above
categories, his or her appointment on said Board shall thereby terminate and
his or her office shall become vacant.
      (2)   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall
take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Commission originally appointed shall meet within 30 days after
its appointment at a time and place designated by the Town Council Chairperson
for the purpose of organization and shall meet to reorganize in February of
each succeeding year.
      (4)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as President, one as
Vice-President and one as Secretary, each of which officers shall serve from
the day of his or her election until January 31 next following his or her
election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Commission shall be authorized to adopt such bylaws, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings,
the carrying out of its duties and the safe-guarding of the funds and property
placed in its custody by this act. Regular or special meetings shall be held at
such times as it may determine and upon such notice as it may fix, either by
resolution or in accordance with the provisions of the bylaws, rules and
regulations adopted. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum and
the concurrence of a majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
   (D)   No Commissioner shall have any pecuniary interest in any contract,
employment, leases, purchase or sale made under the provisions of this act, and
any such transaction made in which any Commissioner has a pecuniary interest
shall be void ab initio; provided, however, that, any property required for the
purposes of this act in which a Commissioner has a pecuniary interest may be
acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to investigate, study and
survey job opportunities, the use of pollution control equipment, industrial
diversification and economic stability, development and welfare of the town and
to recommend action to improve and promote job opportunities, promote the use
of pollution control equipment, industrial diversification and economic
stability, development and welfare of the town. The Commission shall report in
writing to the appointing bodies and state’s Department of Commerce at least
once each year.
   (F)   In carrying out its duties, the Commission shall have the following
powers:
      (1)   To acquire by purchase, gift, grant, condemnation or lease any real
estate, interests in real estate or personal property, needed for the purposes
of this act;
      (2)   To hold, use, sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of any
property, real or personal, on such terms and conditions as the Commission
shall determine to be for the best interests of the town and its inhabitants;
      (3)   To repair and maintain, or to contract for the repair and
maintenance of such existing structures or to substantially remodel, rebuild,
enlarge or make major structural improvements on existing buildings;
      (4)   To appear either as an applicant, a petitioner, remonstrator or
objector before any other department or agency of the town or any other
governmental agency;
      (5)   To institute or defend in the name of the town any actions at law
or inequity, and to use any legal or equitable remedy necessary or deemed
proper to protect and enforce the rights and perform the duties of said
department or economic development;
      (6)   To exercise in the name of the town the power of eminent domain;
      (7)   To appoint or employ no more than one clerical employee on either
full-time or part-time basis and such other employees on a part-time basis, as
the Council may deem desirable, to prescribe and define their duties and
regulate the compensation to be paid to such person, and to discharge such
appointees or employees and appoint their successors;
      (8)   To accept the use of such quarters as may be furnished by the town;
also to purchase such equipment, records and supplies as shall be necessary to
enable the Commission to perform its duties;
      (9)   To expend for and on behalf of the Department, all or any part of
any funds available to it for the purposes expressed in this act;
      (10)   To employ legal accounting counsel to assist it in carrying out
its function; and
      (11)   To have any other powers granted by the laws of the state.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 2) (Ord. I-C-2-a(2), passed 1-2-1984)
§ 30.33 VIOLATION BUREAU.
   (A)   There shall be created an Ordinance Violation Bureau, pursuant to I.C.
33-36-3-1 et seq., as amended, for the town.
   (B)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the
Violation Clerk, who administers the Bureau.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and
payment of civil penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided
below.
   (D)   The following provisions of the code shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violation Bureau and the first violations within
a calendar year of provisions shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth
in the ordinance codified herein, plus all necessary attorney’s fees and costs
associated with collection. The second admission or judgment of a violation of
the same ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be subject to
double the penalty set forth below as the total civil penalty, plus all
necessary attorney’s fees and costs associated with collection.
   (E)   The provisions of the code and the ordinances referred to herein are
hereby amended to provide and declare the civil penalty scheduled with the said
ordinance or code provision to be the specific civil penalty for the violation
of said ordinance or code provision.
   (F)   Additional fees associated with all civil penalties for ordinance
violations as set forth in division (D) above include all necessary attorney’s
fees associated with enforcement of any ordinance and any and all costs
incurred by the town in collecting.
   (G)   If any party should demand or require a court hearing on any ordinance
violation and if the town should incur attorney’s fees in the enforcement of
such ordinance violation, any person found to have committed any such ordinance
violation shall reimburse the town its reasonable attorney’
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 3) (Ord. I-B-1-A(2), passed 9-8-1992; Ord. I-B-1-a
(3), passed - -)
§ 30.34 AREA PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Town Council to avail itself of
the provisions of Ch. 138, Acts of 1957, as amended, State General Assembly,
and to participate in the operation of the Area Planning Department after it is
established, pursuant to § 6 of said Act.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby adopt the provisions of Ch. 138, Acts of 1957,
as amended, State General Assembly.
   (C)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county shall be as
set forth in §§ 8 through 13 and in § 25 of said Act.
   (D)   There shall be five county representatives on the Area Plan Commission
who shall be selected and appointed as follows:
      (1)   A representative appointed by the School Corporation
Superintendents within the jurisdiction of the Area Plan Commission;
      (2)   The County Extension Agent;
      (3)   One citizen member appointed by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (4)   One citizen member appointed by the County Council; and
      (5)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint one member who
shall be experienced in engineering and survey and who may be an employee of
the county’s Engineering Department.
   (E)   The legislative body of each of the participating towns shall each
appoint one member to the county’s Area Plan Commission, which member may be a
member of the legislative body of such town or may be a citizen member as the
term “citizen member” is defined in I.C. 18-7-4-216(c).
   (F)   One citizen member shall be appointed because of his or her knowledge
and experience in community affairs and his or her awareness of agricultural
problems in the area by the consensus of the following groups:
      (1)   County Farm Bureau, Inc.;
      (2)   County Extension Board;
      (3)   Board of Supervisors of the Soil and Water Conservation District in
the county; and
      (4)   The County Agricultural Stabilization Committee.
   (G)   A member of the Area Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals or a
legislative body may not participate in a hearing or decision of that
Commission or body concerning a zoning or subdivision matter in which he or she
has a direct or indirect financial interest. The fact of employment by the
Engineering Department of the county shall not create such interest in any
member appointed from such Department to the county’s Area Plan Commission as
will disqualify such member from acting on any zoning or subdivision matter
brought before the Area Plan Commission. If any member of the Area Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals shall have a conflict of interest, the
Commission or Board shall enter in its records the fact that its member has
such a disqualification and the remaining members of the Commission shall
appoint an elector to participate as a member in the hearing or decision
concerning that zoning or subdivision matter.
   (H)   The town does hereby establish itself as a participating member of the
county’s Plan Commission and hereby adopts and includes herein by reference the
county’s zoning ordinances and subdivision control ordinances and all
amendments, rules and regulations established pursuant thereto.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 5) (Ord. I-C-3-b(1), passed - -; Ord. I-C-3-b(2),
passed - -; Ord. I-C-3-b(3), passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 31.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 28, 29, 37 and 39) (Ord. I-F-2(B)(1)-(7), passed - -;
Ord. I-F-2(c), passed 3-23-1992; Ord. I-F-5, passed 7-28-2003; Ord. 2012-4-23,
passed 4-23-2012; Ord. 2012-6-19, passed 7-1-2012; Ord. 2013-2-25, passed - -
2013; Ord. 2015-11-23(D), passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 2018-10-22(B), passed 10-22-
2018; Ord. 2018-10-22(D), passed 10-22-2018; Ord. 2018.11.13(A), passed 11-12-
2018; Ord. 2018-11-12(a), passed 11-12-2018; Res. 2020-18, passed 10-26-2020;
Ord. 2021-23, passed 12-13-2021; Ord. 2024-1-8(A), passed 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 32: PURCHASING POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Purchasing agency
   
32.02   Purchasing procedures
Purchasing Policies
   
32.15   Publication of notices
   
32.16   Receiving offers
   
32.17   Small purchases
   
32.18   Requests for proposals
   
32.19   Special purchasing methods
   
32.20   Other procedures governing purchases
   
32.21   Restriction of purchases
Purchasing Rules
   
32.35   Protection of offer; status of documents as public records
   
32.36   Discussions with offerors responding to request for proposal
   
32.37   Delay of opening of offers
   
32.38   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
32.39   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
32.40   Modification and termination of contracts
   
32.41   Purchases of services
   
32.42   Supplies manufactured in the United States
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office (the “purchasing agency”) is established
as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the town.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may designate in writing any employee of the
town as a purchasing agent.
   (E)   (1)   The Department of the Town Clerk-Treasurer having been
appointment purchasing agency for the town does hereby appoint the following
purchasing agents:
         (a)   Town Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Town Marshal;
         (c)   Town Street Superintendent;
         (d)   Town Sewer Superintendent; and
         (e)   Town Water/Utility Superintendent.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer, as head of the purchasing agency,
reserves the right to amend or modify this list of purchasing agents as the
need shall from time to time arise.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 30) (Ord. I-F-1-a(7), passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.02 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. The town purchases office products, services, and maintenance
materials in the course of conducting its business. The purpose of this control
is to assure accurate accounting and payment for all purchases made by town
personnel and to limit the opportunity for personal use of town resources.
   (B)   Purchasing authority. The Council authorizes the following procedures
for purchases by the town. All purchasing for the town must be conducted only
by the following personnel:
      (1)   The Town Manager;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   The department heads (Town Marshal, Wastewater, Water, Park and
Street Superintendent), only with approvals as provided herein.
   (C)   Purchasing limits and process.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall additionally be responsible for approving
any requests for expenditures within the Clerk-Treasurer's limits by the Town
Manager's office, the Maintenance Department, the Police Department (except as
provided below) and other departments prior to such expenditure being made. All
such purchase authorizations shall be substantiated as set forth below.
Purchasing processes and subsequent spending limits for the town are as
follows:
         (a)   Purchases between zero and $1,000. Town Marshal can approve from
his or her budget in the General Fund, Public Safety Fund, and Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund. Fire Chief, Waste Water, Water, Park and Street
Superintendents can approve from their respective budgets. Town Manager and
Clerk-Treasurer can approve from their budget. All requested purchases under
$1,000 shall be reasonably investigated to assure the best product is selected
with respect to quality, necessity, and price. Such recommendations shall be
given to the Clerk-Treasurer for approval. "House Account" purchases at local
hardware store or other vendors are not allowed without the prior authorization
of the Clerk-Treasurer if under $1,000.
         (b)   Purchases between $1,000 and $5,000. Clerk-Treasurer and Town
Manager have the authority to approve purchases for their departments. Town
Marshal, Fire Chief, Waste Water, Water, Park and Street Superintendents shall
require prior authorization from Town Manager and/or Clerk. All requested
purchases over $1,000 shall be reasonably investigated to assure the best
product is selected with respect to quality, necessity, and price.
         (c)   Purchases between $5,000 and $50,000. Must get at least three
quotes whether written, verbal, or via the internet from persons known to deal
in the lines or classes of supplies or equipment being purchased. If a
satisfactory quote is received, the Town Council may award the purchase to the
lowest responsible and responsive offer or provider. Any single item purchase
over $5,000 that meets the description of a fixed asset as described in the
fixed asset policy shall be recorded on the general ledger as such by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
         (d)   Purchases between $50,000 and $150,000. Invitation to quote: a
request via written or verbal must be sent to at least three persons known to
deal in the lines or classes of supplies or equipment being purchased. If a
satisfactory quote is received, the Town Council may award the purchase to the
lowest responsible and responsive offer or provider.
         (e)   Purchases $150,000 and up. Formal bid process following state
guidelines with final approval by the Council or Board.
      (2)   For all purchases a receipt shall be returned to the Clerk-
Treasurer's office. The Clerk-Treasurer shall record all such purchases in a
purchase ledger. Supporting documentation such as receipts, cancelled checks,
tickets, invoices, bills, contracts, and other pertinent records must be
maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer and available for audit and to provide
supporting documentation may be the personal obligation of the responsible
official or employee.
      (3)   The town is sales tax-exempt and therefore all purchases are not
subject to sales tax. However, as required by law, a tax-exempt certificate
shall be presented to the vendor prior to the purchase. These forms can be
obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer's office. If not obtained before the
purchase, the purchasing personnel can be held responsible for any sales taxes
incurred.
      (4)   Any employee making a purchase that does not receive the proper
pre-approval consistent with this policy may be held responsible for the total
amount without reimbursement. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
final review of all claims submitted for payment. Any single item purchase over
$5,000 that meets the description of a fixed asset as described in the fixed
asset policy shall be recorded on the general ledger as such by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (D)   Reconciliation of purchase disbursements. Vendor disbursements shall
be accounted for in alphabetical order and reconciled to the town's
disbursement ledger on a bi-weekly basis by the Clerk-Treasurer and reported to
the Council. Invoices or other receipts shall be attached to each claim to
support the disbursement. Claims, invoices and disbursements ledger shall be
reviewed and compared no less than quarterly by the Oversight Committee for
confirmation.
   (E)   Credit card purchases. The Clerk-Treasurer is the officer designated
by the town to administer use of all town credit cards. Town credit cards may
only be utilized by Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager for appropriate town
purposes, which includes attendance at appropriate conferences and seminars and
occasional and reasonable entertainment of town personnel. The Clerk-
Treasurer's office shall reconcile the monthly credit card statement, select
the fund and account numbers to be charged. The individual to whom a card is
issued is responsible for the card and its proper use. Credit card purchases
shall be documented in the same fashion as other purchases. Supporting
documents including paid bills and receipts must be submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer's office.
   (F)   Reporting and materiality. It is policy of the town that any erroneous
or irregular variances, losses or shortages, discovered in the purchasing
process shall be reported to the Oversight Committee. The Oversight Committee
shall report material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts to the Council,
State Board of Accounts, and other appropriate officials in accordance with the
town's statement regarding materiality and reporting.
(Ord. 2024-2-12, passed 2-12-2024)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 32.15 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitations for bids. All notices of invitations for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and News. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Requests for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and News. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (C)   Requests for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and
News. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide
a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (D)   Mailing notice. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or requests for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or the material by electronic means; provided that, the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 1) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.16 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for bids
must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in
response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of
the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only be received if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interest, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 2) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.17 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   General. The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated
cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving
quotes.
   (B)   Purchases less than $25,000. A purchase agent may make a purchase of
less than $25,000 under small purchase policies established by the purchasing
agency or under rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (C)   Purchases between $25,000 and $75,000.
      (1)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting quotes from at
least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote at least
seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder for each line or class of supplies quoted.
      (4)   A purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
      (5)   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase the supplies using
methods for special purchases.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 3) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.18 REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may award a contract through a request for
proposals procedure instead of competitive sealed bidding when the purchasing
agent makes a written determination that the use of competitive sealed bidding
is either not practicable or not advantageous to the governmental body.
   (B)   The governmental body may also provide by rule or policy that:
      (1)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to governmental
body to purchase specified types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
      (2)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchase of that
type of supply.
   (C)   A request for proposals must include:
      (1)   The factors or criteria that will be used to evaluate the
proposals;
      (2)   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and the
other evaluation factors;
      (3)   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be accompanied by
a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility, which may be
imposed in accordance with rules adopted by the governing body; and
      (4)   A statement concerning whether discussions may be conducted with
responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award.
   (D)   A request for proposal must be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-
1, two times, at least one week apart, with the second publication occurring at
least ten days prior to the date the proposals will be received. The purchasing
agent must see that notice is published.
   (E)   Proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiations.
   (F)   A register of proposals must be prepared and open for public
inspection after a contract award.
The register must include:
      (1)   A copy of the request for proposals;
      (2)   A list of all persons to whom copies of the request for proposal
were given;   
      (3)   A list of all proposals received, including the following
information:
         (a)   The names and addresses of all offerors;
         (b)   The dollar amount of each offer;
         (c)   The name of the successful offeror and the dollar amount of that
offeror’s offer;   
         (d)   The basis on which the award was made; and
         (e)   The entire contents of the contract file, except for proprietary
information including with an offer, such as trade secret, manufacturing
processes and financial information that was not required to be made available
for public inspection under the terms of the request for proposals.
   (G)   As provided in the request for proposals, or under the rules or
policies of the governmental body, discussions may be conducted with, and best
and final offers obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for an award.
   (H)   (1)   A contract shall be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the
governmental body, taking into consideration price and the other evaluation
factors set forth in the request for proposal.
      (2)   If provided for in the request for proposals, the contract may be
awarded to more than one offeror whose proposals are determined in writing to
be the most advantageous to the governmental body, taking into consideration
price and the other evaluation factors.
      (3)   The only factors or criteria that may be used in the evaluation of
proposals are those specified in the request for proposals.
      (4)   Offerors must be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals.
      (5)   In conducting discussion with an offeror, information derived from
proposals submitted by competing offerors may not be disclosed.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 4) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.19 SPECIAL PURCHASING METHODS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of I.C. 5-22, a purchasing agent
may make a purchase without soliciting bids or proposals, if the purchasing
agent uses the following special purchasing methods.
   (B)   A special purchase must be made with such competition as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (C)   A purchasing agent may make a special purchase:
      (1)   When there exists, under emergency conditions, a threat to public
health, welfare or safety;
      (2)   Where there exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or
services at a substantial savings to the governmental body;
      (3)   At an auction;
      (4)   Of data process contracts or license agreements for software
programs or supplies or services, when only one source meets the using agency’s
reasonable requirements;
      (5)   When:
         (a)   The compatibility of equipment, accessories or replacement parts
is a substantial consideration in the purchase; and
         (b)   Only one source meets the using agency’s reasonable requirement.
      (6)   When the purchase of the required supplies or services under
another purchasing method provide for in I.C. 5-22 would seriously impair the
functioning of the using agency;
      (7)   When the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under other
methods provided for in I.C. 5-22 and has not received a responsive offer;
      (8)   For the evaluation of supplies or a system containing supplies for
any of the following reasons: to obtain functional information or comparative
date; or for a purpose that in the judgment of the purchasing agent may advance
the long-term competitive position of the governmental body; or
      (9)   When the market structure is based on price, but the governmental
body is able to receive a dollar or percentage discount of the established
price; and
      (10)   From a public utility if the price is a negotiated price that
considers the results of an independent appraisal obtained by the public
utility and a separate independent appraisal obtained by the purchasing agent.
   (D)   A purchasing agent may award a contract for a supply when there is
only one source for the supply and the purchasing agent determines in writing
that there is only one source for the supply.
   (E)   A purchasing agent may make a purchase from a person when the
purchasing agent determines in writing that:
      (1)   Supplies can be purchased from the person or the person’s
authorized representative at prices equal to or less than the prices stipulated
in current federal supply service schedules established by the General Services
Administration; and
      (2)   It is advantageous to the governmental body’s interest in
efficiency and economy.
   (F)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies if the purchase is from a
person who has a contract with a federal agency and the person’s contact with
the federal agency requires the person to make the supplies available to the
state or political subdivisions.
   (G)   A purchasing agent for a political subdivision may purchase supplies
if the purchase is made from a person who has a contact with a state agency and
the person’s contract with the state agency requires the person to make the
supplies or services available to political subdivisions.
   (H)   A purchasing agency may acquire supplies if the purchasing agent
determines that the governmental body can obtain the transfer of the supplies
from the federal government as federal surplus property at a cost less than
would be obtained from the purchase of the supplies by soliciting for bids or
proposals.
      (1)   A governmental body may not make a purchase of federal surplus
property if title to the property will be transferred to the governmental body
before sufficient funds have been appropriated.
      (2)   A governmental body may make a purchase of federal surplus property
if:
         (a)   The supplies will be transferred under a conditional sale or
lease, a lease with an option to purchase or a contract for the use of the
supplies; and
         (b)   Sufficient funds are appropriated to pay the consideration for
one year of the agreement.
      (3)   A governmental body that purchases or leases surplus federal
material shall give notice of the purchase or lease in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1, one time, no later than 30 days after the purchase.
   (I)   A purchasing agent for a board of aviation commissioners or an airport
authority may make a special purchase of petroleum products if the petroleum
products are for resale to the general public.
   (J)   A purchasing agent may acquire supplies by accepting a gift on behalf
of the governmental body.
   (K)   A purchasing agent shall maintain the contract records for a special
purchase in a separate file. The contract file for special purchases must
contain a written determination of the basis for:
      (1)   The special purchase; and
      (2)   The selection of the contractor.
   (L)   A governmental body shall maintain a record listing all contracts made
for special purchases for a minimum of five years. The records must contain:
      (1)   Each contractor’s name;
      (2)   The amount and type of each contract; and
      (3)   A description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
   (M)   The contract records for a special purchase are subject to annual
audit by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 5) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.20 OTHER PROCEDURES GOVERNING PURCHASES.
   (A)   (1)   A solicitation may provide that offers will be received and
contracts will be awarded separately or for any combination of lines or classes
of supplies or services contained in the solicitation.
      (2)   If the solicitation does not indicate how separate contracts might
be awarded, the purchasing agent may award separate contracts to different
offerors only if the purchasing agent makes a written determination that the
award of separate contracts is in the interest of efficiency or economy.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent awards a contract for a line or class of
supplies or services, or any combination of lines or classes, to an offeror
other than the lowest offeror, the purchasing agent must make a written
determination stating the reasons for awarding a contract to that offeror.
   (B)   A solicitation may provide that the purchasing agent will award a
contract for supplies or services for an unspecified number of items at a fixed
price per unit and that the contract may contain a formula or method for the
escalation of the unit price.
   (C)   A notice or other materials that are to be sent by mail may be sent by
electronic means, as provided for in:
      (1)   Rules adopted by the governmental body;
      (2)   Written policies of the purchasing agent; or
      (3)   The solicitation; provided that, the rules, policies or
solicitation provide that the electronic transmission of the information is at
least as efficient and secure as sending the information by mail.
   (D)   A governmental body may receive electronic offers if:
      (1)   The solicitation describes the procedure for transmitting the
electronic offer; and
      (2)   The governmental body receives the transmission on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of the offer
with the same degree of protection as the content of an offer not transmitted
electronically.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever public notice of a purchase is required, it must be
done in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agent may notice in addition
to notice given under I.C. 5-3-1 if the purchasing agent determines it will
increase competition. The purchasing agent shall schedule all notice to provide
a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of responses after
notification.
      (2)   The period between the last publication, mailing or posting of
notices and the final date for submitting offers must be at least seven days.
Note that, with respect to receiving bids, I.C. 5-3-1 requires at least ten
days between the last publication and the final date for submitting bids.
   (F)   (1)   The purchasing agent may:
         (a)   Cancel a solicitation; or
         (b)   Reject all offers, in whole or in part, as specified in the
solicitation, if the purchasing agent determines it is in the best interests of
the governmental body.
      (2)   The reasons for a cancellation of a solicitation or a rejection of
all offers must be made part of the contract file.
   (G)   An offer may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation if:
      (1)   The governmental body makes a written determination that it is in
the best interest of the governmental body to delay the opening; and
      (2)   The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening is announced at
the date, time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
   (H)   Generally speaking, contract and purchasing records are public records
subject to public inspection and copying in accordance with the Public Records
Statute, being I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (I)   However, a governmental body may establish policies or adopt rules for
the protection of documents submitted to the governmental body in response to a
solicitation. Such rules or policies may provide procedures for:
      (1)   Protection of offers before opening to prevent disclosure of the
contents;
      (2)   Affording unobstructed evaluation of offers and the contract awards
by the purchasing agent after opening; and
      (3)   Protection of offers from tampering before and after opening.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 6) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.21 RESTRICTION OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchases from the Department of Correction.
      (1)   A governmental body shall purchase supplies and services produced
or manufactured by the Department of Correction as listed in the Department’s
printed catalog unless the supplies and services cannot be furnished in a
timely manner.
      (2)   Supplies and services purchased from the Department of Correction
must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
      (3)   If these requirements are not met, the governmental body is not
required to purchase supplies from the Department of Correction.
      (4)   The Department of Correction shall furnish each governmental body a
catalog containing:
         (a)   Supplies and services available for sale; and
         (b)   Prices of supplies and services available for sale.
   (B)   Purchases of rehabilitation center products.
      (1)   A governmental body shall purchase articles produced by the state
rehabilitation center for the blind and visually impaired under the same
conditions as articles produces by the Department of Correction, unless similar
articles are produced by the governmental body.
      (2)   The state’s Rehabilitation Services Bureau shall publish a catalog
for the use of the governmental bodies, show the products and services
available through the rehabilitation center.
      (3)   Whenever a governmental body needs an article listed in the
catalog, the governmental body:
         (a)   Shall give the Bureau a reasonable time to produce or supply the
article; and
         (b)   Except for an article produced by the Department of Correction,
may not elsewhere:
            1.   Contract for;
            2.   Purchase;
            3.   Pay a bill for; or
            4.   An article described in the catalog unless the article cannot
be furnished by the Bureau.
      (4)   A governmental body may contract elsewhere for the purchase of an
article described in the catalog if the Bureau provides a written statement
that the Bureau cannot furnish the article.
      (5)   Supplies purchased from the Bureau must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
      (6)   If these requirements are not met, the governmental body is not
required to purchase supplies from the Bureau.
   (C)   Purchases from qualified non-profit agencies for person with severe
disabilities.
      (1)   A governmental body that is a political subdivision may purchase
supplies and services from a qualified non-profit agency for persons with serve
disabilities under the same conditions as supplies produced by the Department
of Correction are purchased.
      (2)   A governmental body may apportion purchases of supplies and
services from qualified agencies on an equitable basis among the interested
qualified agencies.
      (3)   Supplies purchased from a qualified agency must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 31, § 7) (Ord. I-F-1-a(5), passed 6-8-1998)
PURCHASING RULES
§ 32.35 PROTECTION OF OFFER; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
   (D)   Register of proposals.
      (1)   The purchasing agent shall prepare a register of proposals for each
request for proposals issued which shall contain information concerning the
proposals for public inspection and copying.
      (2)   Proposals may not be disclosed.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 1) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.36 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussion with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 2) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.37 DELAY OF OPENING OF OFFERS.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that it is in the town’s
best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 3) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.38 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000.
      (1)   The solicitation shall include a requirement that an offeror
provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate the kind of
evidence that will be acceptable.
      (2)   If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (D)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that no
evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 4) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.39 USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   The town determines that:
   (A)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase certain
types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
   (B)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing the
following types of supplies:
      (1)   Office supplies;
      (2)   Routine supplies; and
      (3)   Gasoline and oils.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 5) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.40 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustment in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included.
      (1)   Price adjustment must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 6) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.41 PURCHASES OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The town determines that each town agency and department may purchase
services, except for the services of attorneys in whatever manner the purchaser
determines to be reasonable.
   (B)   The town purchasing agency may not require any town agency, department
or office to purchase service in any particular manner.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 7) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
§ 32.42 SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
town purchases.
   (B)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be purchased unless
the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States is
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality or comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 32, § 8) (Ord. I-F-1-a(6), passed 6-22-1998; Ord. I-
F-1-a(8), passed 6-8-1998)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Money disbursement
   
33.02   Accident investigations, reports and fees
   
33.03   Fire protection service charges
   
33.04   Vehicle or hull identification check fee
   
33.05   Authority for advanced payment of claims
   
33.06   Policy for electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
33.07   Redevelopment Commission advanced payments
Capital Asset Policy
   
33.15   Issuance; definition
   
33.16   Purpose
   
33.17   Classification
   
33.18   “Capital assets” defined
   
33.19   Valuation of capital assets
   
33.20   Asset definitions by major category
   
33.21   Depreciation methods
   
33.22   Capital asset acquisition
   
33.23   Asset transfers and disposition
   
33.24   Periodic inventories
   
33.25   Controller’s office; responsibilities
   
33.26   Department managers; responsibilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MONEY DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer of the town may make claim payments in advance of
Council allowance for the following type of expenses.
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States Government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
Government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses made pursuant to this section must be
supported by a fully itemized claim.
   (C)   The town legislative body or board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or
Council’s next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 6) (Ord. I-F-1-a(2), passed 3-23-1992)
§ 33.02 ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS, REPORTS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is hereby designated to make said accident
investigations, prepare and maintain written reports of his or her
investigations and provide copies of said reports upon request.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall provide copies of said accident reports only
upon a verified written authorization signed by any person who has sustained
any loss or damage, by reason of the injury or death of any person or damage to
property caused or resulting from the operation, maintenance or use of any
vehicle upon any public street or highway of the state or his or her duly
authorized agent or attorney.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall be entitled to charge a fee in an amount of $5
for each copy of any such report, and such fee shall be deposited in a separate
account to be known as the “Accident Report Account”.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund known as
the Accident Report Account and deposit the receipts in the municipality’s
general bank account.
   (E)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be authorized by
the Town Marshal and expended for any department purpose reasonably related to
the keeping of said accident reports and records or the prevention of street
and highway accidents as provided by law, and shall be paid without
appropriation on the basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid by the Town
Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 25) (Ord. I-F-2-a(1), passed - -)
§ 33.03 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The following rates and charges shall be made by the Topeka Volunteer
Fire Department, Inc., for any and all applicable fire protection services
rendered:
      (1)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or fire
apparatus or a fire rescue unit dispatched to an incident: $200 per response
vehicle, except command/control vehicle, which is $75 per vehicle;
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance: $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicles;
      (3)   For initial responses dispatched for hazardous material incident:
$250 per response vehicle, except command/control vehicle, which is $100 per
vehicle;
      (4)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance for a
hazardous material incident: $150 per response unit and $50 per command/control
vehicle;
      (5)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers
or other agents used in cleanup operations: the actual replacement cost of
those materials;
      (6)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill: the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location;
      (7)   Under I.C. 36-8-12-17, false alarm service charges: $350;
      (8)   Carbon monoxide and service calls: a charge of $50; and
      (9)   Copies of incident reports: $10.
   (B)   All other rates and charges are hereby reaffirmed and ratified by the
Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 26) (Ord. V-D-1/2004-1-26-F, passed 1-26-2004; Ord.
2008-5-12, passed 5-25-2008; Ord. 2012-27-12, passed - -; Ord. 2016-10-24(A),
passed 10-24-2016)
§ 33.04 VEHICLE OR HULL IDENTIFICATION CHECK FEE.
   For each vehicle or hull identification check done by the Town Marshal, a
fee of $5 may be assessed against the party requesting the search and the $5
fee will be paid directly to the officer on the scene before the search will be
conducted.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 27) (Ord. I-F-1-a(3), passed 7-26-1993)
§ 33.05 AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCED PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Authority for advanced payment of claims. The Clerk-Treasurer of the
town shall have the authority to make claim payments in advance of approval
from the Town Council for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   License fees or permit fees.
      (2)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (3)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (4)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (5)   Payroll.
      (6)   State, federal or county taxes.
      (7)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (8)   Payments to such vendors or service providers which have provided
services or goods to the town and for which a delay of payment incurs penalties
or late payment charges.
   (B)   Expenses described in section. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall
additionally have the authority to make claim payments in advance of approval
from the Town Council for the following expenses:
      (1)   Credit card payments.
      (2)   Line of credit payments.
   (C)   Documentation of claims. The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that each
payment of expenses paid in advance of Town Council approval shall be supported
by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Town Council review. The Town Council shall review and allow a claim
at its next regular or special meeting following such claim’s pre-approved
payment.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 33.06 POLICY FOR ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments, and payments for monthly bills.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transfers of
transferring funds to the account payable checking account from the general,
electric, water, sewer, and trash accounts in the process of paying claims/
invoices.
   (C)   Documentations. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-18, passed 6-14-21)
§ 33.07 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ADVANCED PAYMENTS.
   The Treasurer of the town Redevelopment Commission is allowed to make
certain disbursements of redevelopment funds before the allowance and approval
at its next regular meeting, and all disbursements of such funds shall be
brought before the Redevelopment Commission with a fully itemized invoice or
bill at its next meeting for approval or ratification. Such advanced payment of
claims that will be permitted include:
   (A)   License fees or permit fees.
   (B)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
   (C)   Federal grant programs if:
      (1)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
      (2)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount
advanced.
   (D)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
   (E)   State, federal or county taxes.
   (F)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
   (G)   Payments to such vendors or service providers which have provided
services or goods to the town and for which a delay of payment incurs
penalties, late payment charges, or jeopardizes the working relationship with
the vendor or service provider.
(Res. 2022-7, passed 7-11-2022)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 33.15 ISSUANCE; DEFINITION.
   (A)   The fixed asset policy is being issued, effective 1-1-2004. The new
policy will be referred to as the capital asset policy. This policy is being
issued to document the minimum value of capital assets to be reported on the
town’s financial reports and to include infrastructure assets. This issuance of
a policy document is related to the implementation of a new reporting model,
Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34. Statement 34 will require
the town to depreciate capital assets. The capital asset threshold will be
$3,000. An asset with a value under $3,000 will be expensed in the year of
purchase. The infrastructure portion of this policy is also effective 1-21-
2004.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 1)
   (B)   Town utilities will follow this same definition of capital assets,
except any item with a unit cost of $3,000 or more shall be capitalized. Assets
that are not capitalized (items less than $3,000) are expensed in the year of
acquisition. Town utilities will follow the capitalization guidelines of the
state’s Utility Regulatory Commission.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 2)
   (C)   The town has established a capital asset policy in order to provide a
higher degree of control over its considerable investment in capital assets and
to be able to demonstrate accountability to its various constituencies:
citizens; ratepayers; oversight bodies; and regulators. All public information
pertaining to capital assets will be made available in the Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (CAFR).
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 3)
(Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing a capital policy is fivefold:
   (A)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of the town;
   (B)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
   (C)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement policies;
   (D)   To provide data for financial reporting; and
   (E)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 4) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.17 CLASSIFICATION.
   This policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including fixed and
infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the state’s Board
of Accounts. It does not include data processing, programming requirements or
computer operations procedures.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 5) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.18 “CAPITAL ASSETS” DEFINED.
   (A)   CAPITAL ASSETS include land, land improvements, including monuments,
buildings, building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and
equipment, vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not
depreciated. All items with a useful life of more than one year and having a
unit cost of $3,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by
lease-purchase agreements and donated items). A capital asset meeting the
criteria will be reported and depreciated in the government- wide financial
statements.
   (B)   Assets that are not capitalized (items less than $3,000) are expensed
in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept on all computers and
other equipment with a capitalized cost of less than $3,000. (See §
33.24 of this chapter.)
   (C)   (1)   Exceptions are:
         (a)   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
         (b)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
units; and
         (c)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases and similar items, added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place
and adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized.
      (2)   Note: purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant
requirements or the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
   (D)   The following schedule will be followed for the different types of
capital assets other than infrastructure assets:
 Capitalize/Depreciate
                         Capitalize/Depreciate
Building                 $3,000
Building improvements    $3,000
Town utility assets      $3,000
Construction in progress All/capitalize only
Land                     All/capitalize only
Land improvements        $3,000
Machinery and equipment  $3,000
Vehicle                  $3,000
 
   (E)   (1)   At the network level, the asset will be classified as major if
the cost of the network item is at least 10% of the cost of all capital assets
in fiscal year 2004. A NETWORK will be defined as a group of similar assets
that serve a particular function or purpose for the town.
      (2)   At the subsystem level, the asset will be classified as major if
the cost of the subsystem item is at least 5% of the cost of all capital assets
in fiscal year 2004. A WILL SUBSYSTEM will be defined as a segment of a network
of assets that serve a similar function for the town.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 6) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.19 VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets must be recorded at actual cost. Normally, the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges; and
      (8)   Interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 7) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.20 ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   (A)   General. It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that
each asset category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for
records maintenance be fully aware of the categorization system. This section
further clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
   (B)   Land. LAND is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage,
including rights-of-way, owned by the town, its various departments, boards or
authorities, regardless of the method or date of acquisition.
   (C)   Improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   Examples of town assets in this category are walks, parking areas
and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground
sprinkler systems and other similar items.
      (2)   Examples of town utilities assets in this category are water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, fences, intake pipes, manholes and fire
hydrants.
   (D)   Buildings.
      (1)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment services, or
functions are included. This includes systems, services and fixtures within the
buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies,
areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles and all other such units that serve the
building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
buildings. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
   (E)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the fixed asset management system not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment,
office furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance
equipment, communication equipment, police, fire, sanitation and park
department, laboratory equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency
equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense equipment and
data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
   (F)   Infrastructure. Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets
that normally can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than
most capital and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include
roads, streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (1)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure, which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset, will be capitalized. Maintenance/repairs
will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset, and therefore
not considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal
department operating activities such as feasibility studies, and preliminary
engineering and design, will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of
the infrastructure asset.
      (2)   Alleys will not be included as part of infrastructure for the
following reason: existing improved alleys will be maintained as gravel alleys,
and the town is responsible only for the maintenance, such as patching and
repairing. Any investments to upgrade the alleys will be done by homeowner
participation. Therefore, the town will not track and value alleys and the
patching/repairs will be expensed as they occur.
      (3)   The retroactive reporting requirements for infrastructure of GASB
34 requires the town to report items put into service from 1980 forward, and
gives the town the option to report items put into service prior to 1980. The
town will report only on items put into service after 1980. Retroactive
reporting is not mandated until fiscal years beginning after 1-1-2006, which
the town will comply with.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 8) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.21 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The town will be depreciating capital assets by using either
composite/group method depreciation or the straight-line method.
   (B)   Salvage value will be determined on an asset-by-asset basis.
Depreciation will be calculated at year-end. Land is not depreciated according
to general accepted accounting principles.
   (C)   A network of assets is composed of all assets that provide a
particular type of service for government. A subsystem of a network of assets
is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or segment of a network
of assets. The following will be the breakdown of the networks and subsystems.
      (1)   Roads/streets network.
         (a)   Subsystems: types of streets; and
         (b)   Curbs.
      (2)   Traffic components network.
         (a)   Subsystems: traffic signals; and
         (b)   Street lights.
   (D)   (1)   Composite depreciation refers to calculating depreciation for a
collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year- end, an adjustment
will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals
throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also
be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the
composite method. A full year’s depreciation will be taken when the asset is
placed in service and no depreciation recorded in the year it is sold or
disposed of. The town will group dissimilar assets by useful lives and the
town’s similar assets by networks. To determine the appropriate depreciation
rate for the composite group, divide one by the number of years the assets are
depreciated. For instance, a group of assets with a 25-year life will be
depreciated at 4% each year (1/25).
      (2)   Following is the list of groups, the town will use for
depreciation: composite/group depreciation:
         (a)   Street lights: 35 years;
         (b)   Traffic signals: 25 years;
         (c)   Flood walls/gates: 50 years; and
         (d)   Roads:
            1.   Cement: ten years;
            2.   Gravel: 15 years;
            3.   Concrete: 30 years;
            4.   Asphaltic concrete: 20 years; and
            5.   Brick or stone: 50 years.
   (E)   All assets accounted for under the capital asset policy will be
depreciated using the straight-line method of depreciation. A gain or loss on
disposal will be recorded.
      (1)   Following is a list of the most common useful lives:
         (a)   Vehicles: five years;
         (b)   Office equipment: five years;
         (c)   Office furniture: 20 years;
         (d)   Heavy equipment: ten years;
         (e)   Fire trucks: 15 years;
         (f)   Buildings: 50 years;
         (g)   Building components (HVAC systems, roofing): 20 years;
         (h)   Leasehold improvements: useful life of asset or lease term
(whichever is shorter);
         (i)   Land improvements, structure (parking lots, athletic courts,
swimming pools): 20 years;
         (j)   Land improvements, ground work (golf course, athletic fields,
landscaping, fencing): 20 years;
         (k)   Outdoor equipment, (playground equipment, radio towers): 15
years;
         (l)   Grounds equipment, (mowers, tractors, attachments): 15 years;
         (m)   Computer hardware: three years; and
         (n)   Computer software: five years.
      (2)   Town utilities’ useful lives are as follows:
         (a)   Water:
            1.   Buildings and improvements: 50 years;
            2.   Transmission and distribution mains: 50 years;
            3.   Meters/hydrants: 50 years;
            4.   Pumping equipment: 50 years;
            5.   Water treatment equipment: 50 years;
            6.   Reservoirs/tanks: 50 years;
            7.   Furniture and equipment: ten years;
            8.   Other equipment: ten years;
            9.   Transportation equipment: ten years;
            10.   Shop and lab equipment: ten years;
            11.   Computer equipment: three years; and
            12.   Communications equipment: ten years.
         (b)   Sewer:
            1.   Buildings and improvements: 50 years;
            2.   Sewer lines: 50 years;
            3.   Combined sewer overflow: 50 years;
            4.   Lift station: 50 years;
            5.   Treatment plant/equipment: ten years;
            6.   Office equipment: five years;
            7.   Miscellaneous operating equipment: five years; and
            8.   Vehicles: five years.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 9) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.22 CAPITAL ASSET ACQUISITION.
   (A)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each department
should report items acquired by:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Lease purchase (see below);
      (3)   Construction by town personnel;
      (4)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (5)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (6)   Donation/contribution;
      (7)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (8)   Transfer from another department;
      (9)   Trade or baiter; and
      (10)   Annexation.
   (B)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property; and
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value of
the leased property.
   (C)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be recorded
as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial statements.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 10) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.23 ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   (1)   Property should not be transferred, turned in for auction or
disposed of without prior approval of the department head. A vehicle/equipment
out-processing checklist should be sent to the Town Controller’s office in all
cases. This form is a dual-purpose form for transfer (defined as any movement
of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account, department,
building, floor or room) or retirement (disposal) of property.
      (2)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
         (a)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset,
most importantly the asset’s tag number or town identification;
         (b)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
         (c)   Write legibly;
         (d)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
         (e)   Enter information in correct row, depending on whether you are
transferring or deleting an asset;
         (f)   Have department head sign at the bottom of the form; and
         (g)   Return the form to the Town Controller’s office.
   (B)   If an asset is stolen, the department should notify the Safety Manager
as well as the Town Controller’s office.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 11) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.24 PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $3,000) will be
conducted in each department on or about December 31 of every year. The Town
Controller’s office will conduct spot checks on a random basis. Department
heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their
departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at year-end.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 12) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.25 CONTROLLER’S OFFICE; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Fiscal Officer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Fiscal Officer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 13) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
§ 33.26 DEPARTMENT MANAGERS; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department manager to act as or
designate a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the
focal point for questions regarding the availability, condition and usage of
the asset, as well as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   Someone should be designated to record the receipt of the asset, to
examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during shipment and
to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 34, § 14) (Ord. I-F-1-a, passed 6-23-2003)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Criminal conviction reward
   
34.02   Rapid key entry boxes
   
34.03   Town ball diamonds and pavilions; rentals
   
34.04   Irregular variances, losses, shortages and theft
   
34.05   Internal control standards
   
34.06   Economic revitalization areas
   
34.07   Firearm licensing fees
   
34.08   Public records requests policies
   
34.09   Town lockbox
   
34.10   Electronic meetings policy
   
34.11   Authority to execute INDOT agreements
§ 34.01 CRIMINAL CONVICTION REWARD.
   Any person who forwards information to the town, which information results
in the criminal conviction of an individual for the theft, vandalism or
malicious destruction of a street sign in and about the town, shall receive a
reward of $100 from the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 4) (Ord. I-B-1-a(4), passed 4-11-1994)
§ 34.02 RAPID KEY ENTRY BOXES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIRE DISTRICT. The normal fire protection district incorporated area
covered by the town’s Fire Department.
      FIRE OFFICIALS. The Fire Chief or his or her designee.
      KEY BOX. A UL “listed” box, size and style, passed by the Fire Official
that meets the requirements and uses the same security key code adopted by the
Fire Department.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person(s) charged with the responsibility for the
occupancy, building or business owner.
      SECURITY CAP. A Fire Department connection (FDC) plug and cap approved
for use in the town by the Fire Official utilizing two and one-half-inch
National Standard thread pattern.
      SECURITY PADLOCK. A padlock approved by the Fire Official that utilizes
the approved key code utilized by the Fire Department.
   (B)   (1)   Mandatory key boxes for fire suppression and standpipe systems.
When a building within the Fire District is protected by an automatic fire
suppression and/or standpipe system, it shall be equipped with a key box,
installed at a location approved by the Fire Official.
      (2)   Mandatory key boxes for automatic alarm systems. When a building is
protected by an automatic alarm system and or access to or within a building,
or an area within that building, is unduly difficult because of secured
openings and, where immediate access is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a key box, to be installed at
a location approved by the Fire Official.
      (3)   Mandatory storage cabinet. In occupancies storing or dispensing
hazardous materials, a hazardous materials cabinet may be required. This
cabinet will serve to store MSDS and other information as required.
      (4)   Automatic gates. When a property is accessed through a gate or
cross arm that impedes ingress through required fire lanes by means of a key or
swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch to be installed at a
location approved by the Fire Official.
      (5)   Security padlock. When a property is protected by a locked fence or
gate and where immediate access to the property is necessary for life saving
and firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a security padlock to be
installed at a location approved by the Fire Official. It shall then be the
responsibility of the responsible party to see that the fence or gate is
secured properly so that the security padlock is accessible.
      (6)   Construction sites. When a construction site is to be secured by a
locked fence or gate, that site will fall under division (B)(5) above, during
the duration of construction or until said fence or gate is removed, the
security padlock will be obtained by placing a security deposit with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town in an amount set to cover replacement of security padlock
should it be lost or damaged. Once the deposit has been made, a Fire Official
will come to the construction site and explain the use of the security padlock.
It shall then be the responsibility of the construction company to see that the
fence or gate is secured properly so that the security padlock is accessible.
      (7)   Security of Fire Department connections. When a building is
protected by an automatic sprinkler and/or standpipe system and the Fire
Department connection is exposed to vandalism, the Fire Official may require
that a security cap be installed.
      (8)   Non-applicability to particular dwellings. This section shall not
apply to owner occupied one- and two-family dwellings. Owners of single- and
two-family occupancies are encouraged to participate voluntarily utilizing a
residential security box.
      (9)   Key box contents. The key boxes shall contain, but not be limited
to, the following items as designated by the Fire Official. Labeled keys to
locked points of egress, whether in interior or exterior of such buildings:
         (a)   Labeled keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
         (b)   Labeled keys to any fence or secured areas not covered in
divisions (B)(4), (B)(5) or (B)(6) above;
         (c)   Labeled keys to any other areas that may be required by the Fire
Official;
         (d)   A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers
for each occupancy;
         (e)   Floor plans of the rooms within the building may also be
required, showing locations of shut offs; and
         (f)   Hazardous materials MSDS, as required.
      (10)   Alert decals. Alert decals, approved by the Fire Official, to
alert fire companies of the presence of security features covered by this
section, will be displayed on any outside doors or windows as designated by the
Fire Official.
      (11)   Compliance. All newly constructed buildings, not yet occupied or
builds currently under construction and all buildings or businesses applying
for a certificate of occupancy, and/or building permits will be required to
comply with this section. The cost of purchasing and installing, along with any
cost associated with implementation of the program at a specific property, will
be born by the responsible party.
      (12)   Non-compliance. Non-compliance with this section will subject the
responsible party to citations. Continued non-compliance may result in
mandatory appearance in court.
      (13)   Return of keys. Four months following passage of this section, all
keys currently in possession of the Fire Department will be returned to the
responsible party.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 38) (Ord. 2013-1-14(b), passed 1-14-2013)
§ 34.03 TOWN BALL DIAMONDS AND PAVILIONS; RENTALS.
   (A)   The East Park baseball ball diamonds may be leased through the Parks
Department/Town Clerk-Treasurer for the sum of $50 per day on any day that it
is not otherwise being utilized by the Park Authority, and said sum shall be
increased to $100 per day if said utilization involves lighting. The pavilions
at East and West Park may be rented for $25.
   (B)   The town ball diamonds adjacent to the Topeka Livestock Auction may
only be leased by coordinating with the Town Parks Department for their rental,
thus does not include pavilions.
   (C)   All checks concerning the leasing of town parks shall be made payable
to the Town of Topeka and deposited with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Any desiring to rent the town ball diamonds or pavilions shall execute
releases as may from time to time be prepared for purposes of assuring that
said utilizations will create no liability on the part of the town.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 36) (Ord. 2012-10-22, passed 10-22-2013; Ord. 2021-
15, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 34.04 IRREGULAR VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES AND THEFT.
   (A)   (1)   When and if an erroneous or irregular variance, loss, shortage
or theft of town funds or property should be encountered, the employee or
representative encountering same shall report such to the Town Manager. The
Town Manager shall ascertain if the variance, loss, shortage or theft is in
excess of $1,000 in value.
      (2)   If same is in excess of $1,000 in value, it shall be deemed
material and the Town Manager shall report same to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall cause a report to be made to the state’s Board
of Accounts and any entity necessary for purposes of reporting thefts and the
like, such as the Town Marshal/County Sheriff, is aware of same, if such is
appropriate.
      (3)   The Town Council shall be informed at its next meeting.
   (B)   The state’s Board of Accounts shall, pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(j),
make recommendation to the Clerk-Treasurer as to methods or policies necessary
to be implemented or modified to prevent a recurrence, and said Clerk-Treasurer
or other responsible party shall see to it that said procedures are in fact
implemented, and report to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2015-12-28(A), passed 12-28-2015)
§ 34.05 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall certify
in writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 2016-6-27A, passed 6-27-2016)
§ 34.06 ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS.
   The Town Council does hereby establish a procedure for designation of areas
by interested persons as economic revitalization areas, as defined by I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-1 et seq., said procedure being as follows.
   (A)   A person who desires designation of an area as an economic
revitalization area, as defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1, shall file an application
at the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and pay a filing fee of $50;
provided, however, that, no filing fee shall be required for an owner-occupied,
single-family project.
   (B)   The application shall be on a form provided by the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer. The form shall require the applicant to provide, among other things,
either:
      (1)   Maps and plats that identify the proposed economic revitalization
area; or
      (2)   A simplified description of the boundaries of the proposed economic
revitalization area describing its location in relation to public ways, streams
or otherwise.
   (C)   On receipt of such application, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Note the date of filing on the application and record the date in
the records in the town; and
      (2)   Forward the petition to the Town Attorney with a request for the
preparation of a declaratory resolution for the consideration by the Town
Council, designating the area described in the petition as an economic
revitalization area.
   (D)   The Town Attorney shall prepare a declaratory resolution and forward
the application and said resolution to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and shall
include the same in the new business portion of the agenda of the Town Council
meeting at its next regular meeting.
   (E)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and apply to such
application and resolution, a system of numbering corresponding to that adopted
by said town.
   (F)   Upon introduction of the declaratory resolution, the same shall be
eligible for passage on the same date as introduced, subject to the following
procedure.
      (1)   Upon adoption of the resolution, the resolution shall be filed with
the County Assessor and/or Auditor, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall publish notice in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 of the adoption and substance of the resolution and setting the
resolution for public hearing.
      (3)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing provided for herein,
the Town Council shall take final action on such declaratory resolution by
either confirming, modifying and confirming or rescinding said resolution.
      (4)   The following standards shall be applicable, in the sole discretion
of the Town Council to the deductions in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq.:
         (a)   Real property, industrial zoned areas only; and
         (b)   New manufacturing equipment situated or to be situated upon
industrial zoned real property and meeting the definition set forth in I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-1(3)(B).
   (G)   The Town Council does hereby designate those areas on the attached map
as economic revitalization areas, and said map showing said areas is on file at
the office of the County Assessor for public inspection. Said may has been
certified by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and is subject to amendment,
confirmation, rescission or remonstrance by any person, in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
   (H)   The town has all of the powers for designating economic revitalization
areas contained in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 22) (Ord. I-F-1-c(1), passed 10-25-1983)
§ 34.07 FIREARM LICENSING FEES.
   The town shall not charge nor collect a fee when an application for a gun
permit or related permits is received by the town, and state law has declared
no fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed - -; Ord. 2021-19, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 34.08 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS POLICIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, the form attached to Ord. 2020-9-28-A as
Exhibit A, which may be amended from time to time by the Town Council, must be
fully completed by all individuals or entities requesting access to public
records from the town pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, the town shall require all individuals or
entities requesting access to public records pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq. to
make copies of the records in person, on the town’s equipment. When a request
for access to public records is granted, the town will designate the
appropriate location where the requester will be able to access and/or make
copies of responsive records. The appropriate location will be selected
pursuant to the town department in control of the records at issue. If the town
lacks the appropriate equipment for copying the responsive records, the
requester may use his, her, or its own equipment to make copies, in person at
the location designated by the town. The town further reserves the right, at
its sole discretion, to utilize email and/or fax to fulfill small requests for
public records available electronically.
   (C)   Costs, as provided in I.C. 5-14-3-8, shall be reimbursed to the town
by requester at the time of delivery of the records, or if the costs exceed
$50, payment shall be made in advance.
(Ord. 2020-9-28-A, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 34.09 TOWN LOCKBOX.
   The town hereby directs its Clerk-Treasurer to procure a lockbox at Farmers
State Bank, Topeka branch, and to provide access to the keys to same to the
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Manager.
(Res. 2021-22, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 34.10 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. (the Act), including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
the Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by:
         (a)   The Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
         (b)   The Mayor under I.C. 10-14-3-29;
         members are not required to be physically present for a meeting until
the emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person.
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session.
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-28, passed - -2021; Res. 2021-30, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 34.11 AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE INDOT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization. The President of the Town Council is hereby authorized
and confirmed to have the authority to execute any INDOT agreements and all
other documents related thereto and all documents related to any INDOT grant
programs for and on behalf of and to bind the town.
   (B)   Ratification. The Town Council hereby ratifies all prior agreements
and associated documents executed by the President of the Town Council for the
town prior to the effective date of this section.
(Res. 2021-38, passed 12-13-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   INSPECTION, TESTING AND ACCEPTANCE OF SEWER AND DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEMS
      
54.   SEPTAGE WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Billing account procedure for water and sewer
§ 50.01 BILLING ACCOUNT PROCEDURE FOR WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   Any party establishing an account with either the Water Utility or
Sewer Utility of the town will establish that account in the name of the owner
of the real estate.
   (B)   Any and all bills concerning the water and sewer accounts of the town
will be sent to the owner of the real estate and, if said owner has leased said
real estate or feels that another party should be responsible for same, it
shall be the owner’s responsibility to collect same from that individual.
   (C)   Any account which currently is in the name of a tenant or non-owner of
a property served by water or sewer shall be converted to an account of the
landowner, who shall be so notified.
   (D)   In all other respects, ordinances that concern the collection of
overdue and past due accounts involving either the Sewer or Water Departments
are hereby reaffirmed as codified in the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2018-03-26(D), passed 3-26-2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Outside water meter readouts
   
51.02   Meters at multi-occupancy living units
   
51.03   Water-only users
Rates and Charges
   
51.15   Water rates
   
51.16   Definition
   
51.17   Monthly readings
   
51.18   Rates available for public inspection
Cross-reference:
   Inspection, testing and acceptance of sewer and domestic water systems, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OUTSIDE WATER METER READOUTS.
   All customers of the town’s Municipal Water Utility whose water usage is
measured by means of a one-inch or less water meter shall install or cause to
be installed a meter which is permanently affixed to the structure within which
the water meter has been installed and has been approved by the town’s
Municipal Water Utility.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 2) (Ord. V-A-2-a(4), passed 2-19-1990)
§ 51.02 METERS AT MULTI-OCCUPANCY LIVING UNITS.
   (A)   The town, through the Topeka Water Company, may install one water
meter at the entrance point from the water line to each multi-occupancy
dwelling unit that is serviced by the Topeka Water Company.
   (B)   The town, through Topeka Water Company, may use said meter as a means
for obtaining accurate water usage information for purposes of billing.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 3) (Ord. V-A-2-a(7), passed 9-27-1993)
§ 51.03 WATER-ONLY USERS.
   (A)   If a resident of the town who already has an existing water and sewer
connection desires a separate water-only connection be fed to an accessory
structure for purposes of livestock or other similar use, and said use has been
properly permitted by the town of other zoning authority, that said resident
may apply to the Town Council for a water-only connection.
   (B)   If the Town Council approves a separate water-only connection for an
individual resident, that connection shall have a separate meter, and any and
all expenses connected with that meter or continued use thereof shall be borne
by the resident requesting same.
(Ord. 2018-11-12(b), passed 11-12-2018)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 WATER RATES.
   The following schedule of rates and charges for the water utility services
listed below and rendered by the Department of Water Works of the town shall
replace the currently existing rates and charges for the services listed below.
   (A)   Metered rates.
Per Month Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
          Inside Town Outside Town *
Per Month            Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
                     Inside Town Outside Town *
First 2,000 gallons  $11.09      $12.20
Next 3,300 gallons   $9.80       $10.78
Next 8,000 gallons   $8.27       $9.10
Next 20,000 gallons  $6.99       $7.69
Next 66,700 gallons  $5.53       $6.08
Over 100,000 gallons $4.18       $4.60
 
         * Users outside the town corporate limits shall be billed at 110% of
the rate billed to users inside the town.
   (B)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates.
Size of Meter Minimum Monthly Charge
              Inside Town Outside Town *
Size of Meter        Minimum Monthly Charge
                     Inside Town Outside Town *
5/8 – 3/4 inch mete$22.18      $24.40
1 inch meter         $51.34      $56.47
1-1/4 inch meter     $68.48      $75.33
1-1/2 inch meter     $93.12      $102.45
2 inch meter         $139.41     $153.38
3 inch meter         $237.43     $261.21
4 inch meter         $352.85     $388.13
6 inch meter         $629.69     $692.50
 
         * Users outside the town corporate limits shall be billed at 110% of
the rate billed to users insides the town.
   (C)   Fire protection service rates – hydrants. 
      (1)   Service under these rates shall generally consist of stand-by
service for fire emergencies and all water taken through such connections shall
be restricted to fire emergencies unless other temporary use shall have been
specifically authorized by the Water Superintendent.
 
        Annual Rate Per Connection
Private $967.66
 
      (2)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge per month for fire protection
in accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which
the user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above
schedule of rates.
Size of Meter Minimum Charge Per Month
Size of Meter        Minimum Charge Per Month
5/8 – 3/4 inch mete$12.77
1 inch meter         $31.95
1-1/4 inch meter     $51.11
1-1/2 inch meter     $63.89
2 inch meter         $102.23
3 inch meter         $191.67
4 inch meter         $319.45
6 inch meter         $638.90
8 inch meter         $1,022.25
10 inch meter        $1,469.48
12 inch meter        $2,747.29
 
   (D)   Fire protection service rates - sprinkler. Service under these rates
shall consist of stand-by service for fire emergencies and all water taken
through such connections shall be restricted to fire emergencies only. The
Water Works reserves the right to install flow detectors from time to time to
ensure such service is restricted to firefighting purposes.
 
Connection Schedule         Annual Rate Per Connection
1-1/2 inch line - per annum $162.98
2 inch line - per annum     $264.98
4 inch line - per annum     $1,018.55
6 inch line - per annum     $2,322.47
8 inch line - per annum     $3,096.45
 
   (E)   Connection charge. Each user at the time he or she is connected with
the Water Works system shall pay a charge to cover the costs of excavating and
tapping the main; furnishing and installing service pipe from the main to the
lot line; furnishing and installing corporation and stop cocks; and furnishing
and installing meter cock (if outside), yoke and meter. Additionally, each user
shall pay $1,100 for a three-quarter inch meter tap. The charge for a tap
larger than the three-quarter inch meter tap shall be the cost of labor,
materials, power machinery, transportation, and overhead incurred for the
installing of the tap, plus a fee of $1,700. The charge for a tap two inches or
larger shall be the cost of labor, materials, power machinery, transportation,
and overhead incurred for the installing of the tap, plus a fee of $2,000, and
if the tap involves multiple new users (i.e., apartment complex), an additional
charge of $250 per individual user connection (i.e., per apartment) shall be
paid.
   (F)   Reconnection charge. When the service is turned off for non-payment of
bill, or whenever for any reason beyond the control of the Water Works a re-
establishment of service is required by any one customer, a charge of $50 will
be made by the Water Works to cover the cost of discontinuance and re-
establishment of service. The charge, together with any arrears due the Water
Works shall be paid by the customer before the service will be re-established.
   (G)   Bulk water rates shall be $0.03 per gallon.
   (H)   Collection or deferred payment charge. All charges and/or bills for
water service shall be due and payable by users by the seventeenth day of each
month following their mailing to said persons. In the event that said charges
are not paid by the due date, a penalty of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the
excess over $3, shall be added to the amount of the bill, said penalty to be
assessed one time only for each monthly billing not paid by the due date.
   (I)   Disconnection for unpaid bill. If a bill remains unpaid for 30 days
after the due date thereof, service to the property may be disconnected. Prior
to disconnection, the Clerk-Treasurer shall direct a notice to the users,
owners and other occupiers of the property, at their last known address,
demanding payment of the past due bill within seven days of the date of notice.
If more than seven calendar days pass from the date of notice without payment
of the past due bill, service may then be disconnected. If service is
disconnected, it shall not be reconnected until all past due bills for service
are paid in full, and in any event not until the next scheduled working day of
the employees of the town.
   (J)   Water meter rental deposit. A deposit of $50 shall be charged as a
water meter rental deposit by the Water Works system of the town to each user
applying for water service after the effective date of this subchapter. When
service is discontinued by said user, the deposit shall be returned, without
interest, to the user unless there is damage to the water meter caused by said
user or there are unpaid charges for water service. After payment of any
damages and service charge, any surplus remaining shall be paid over to the
person or persons entitled thereto upon request.
   (K)   All other charges shall remain at the present rate.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. V-A-2-a(1), passed on 11-6-1978; Ord.
V-A-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-A-2-a(3), passed 3-7-1988; Ord. V-A-2-a(5),
passed 2-20-1989; Ord. V-A-2-a(6), passed 4-1-1992; Ord. V-A-2-(a)(8), passed
on 5-23-1994; Res. 1999-12-13-E, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 2005-5-23, passed 6-
27-2005; Ord. 2014-2-3, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 2021-14, passed 3-8-2021; Ord.
2022-01, passed 6-13-2022; Ord. 2024-4-8, passed 4-8-2024; Ord. 2024-7-22,
passed 8-12-2024)
§ 51.16 DEFINITION.
   The term USER shall be deemed to include the owner, occupier, tenant or any
other person residing upon or doing business in any parcel of real estate to
which water services are provided by the utility, such that the owner,
occupier, tenant, or other person residing on the premises shall be responsible
for payment for all services rendered by the water utility.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. V-A-2-a(1), passed on 11-6-1978; Ord.
V-A-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-A-2-a(3), passed 3-7-1988; Ord. V-A-2-a(5),
passed 2-20-1989; Ord. V-A-2-a(6), passed 4-1-1992; Ord. V-A-2-(a)(8), passed
on 5-23-1994; Res. 1999-12-13-E, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 2005-5-23, passed 6-
27-2005; Ord. 2022-01, passed 6-13-2022; Ord. 2024-4-8, passed 4-8-2024; Ord.
2024-7-22, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 51.17 MONTHLY READINGS.
    The town shall have monthly use readings made of the metered users and the
monthly billings shall be made based upon those actual readings. This
subchapter shall not in any way effect the billing rates or charges made by the
town’s Water Board.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. V-A-2-a(1), passed on 11-6-1978; Ord.
V-A-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-A-2-a(3), passed 3-7-1988; Ord. V-A-2-a(5),
passed 2-20-1989; Ord. V-A-2-a(6), passed 4-1-1992; Ord. V-A-2-(a)(8), passed
on 5-23-1994; Res. 1999-12-13-E, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 2005-5-23, passed 6-
27-2005; Ord. 2022-01, passed 6-13-2022; Ord. 2024-4-8, passed 4-8-2024; Ord.
2024-7-22, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 51.18 RATES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
    A copy of the resolution and/or ordinance codified in this subchapter shall
be placed on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the
Department of Water Works and also the Clerk-Treasurer for the town.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. V-A-2-a(1), passed on 11-6-1978; Ord.
V-A-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-A-2-a(3), passed 3-7-1988; Ord. V-A-2-a(5),
passed 2-20-1989; Ord. V-A-2-a(6), passed 4-1-1992; Ord. V-A-2-(a)(8), passed
on 5-23-1994; Res. 1999-12-13-E, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 2005-5-23, passed 6-
27-2005; Ord. 2022-01, passed 6-13-2022; Ord. 2024-4-8, passed 4-8-2024; Ord.
2024-7-22, passed 8-12-2024)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Department of Sewer Works
   
52.02   Water runoff alteration
   
52.03   Backflow prevention
Sewer Use
   
52.15   Objectives
   
52.16   Administration
   
52.17   Definitions
   
52.18   Abbreviations
   
52.19   Prohibited pollutants
   
52.20   Unauthorized discharges
   
52.21   Duty to connect to municipal system
   
52.22   Private sewer system
   
52.23   Building sewers
   
52.24   Right of refusal
   
52.25   Grease traps and sand interceptors
   
52.26   Sampling
   
52.27   Right of entry
   
52.28   Legal authority
   
52.29   Violations
Rates and Charges
   
52.35   Sewer rates
   
52.36   Volume, strength and character of waste
   
52.37   Definitions
   
52.38   Preparation and billing
   
52.39   Bylaws and regulations
   
52.40   Effective date
   
52.41   Ability to prohibit
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Billing account procedure for water and sewer, see §
50.01
   Inspection, testing and acceptance of sewer and domestic water systems, see
Ch. 53
   Land Usage, see Title XV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEPARTMENT OF SEWER WORKS.
   (A)   A Department of Sewage Works is hereby established for the town,
pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq., which sections are incorporated herein and
made a part hereof, subject to the following modifications: the Board of
Directors of the Department of Water Works for the town shall consist of the
Town Council.
   (B)   Amendments to I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq. by the state’s legislature shall
constitute amendments to this section, even in the absence of official action
by the Board adopting such amendments.
   (C)   This section is made to reestablish the Department of Sewage Works
only and the substantive operation and effect of all ordinances adopted prior
hereto shall continue uninterrupted.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 5) (Ord. V-B-1-a(4), passed 10-3-1983)
§ 52.02 WATER RUNOFF ALTERATION.
   (A)   The owner of any land situated within the limits of the town is hereby
required to obtain a written permit from the Superintendent, before
commencement of any filling, draining, grading or other alteration to the
drainage, water flow or watercourse, including, but not limited to, any
alterations in the water runoff into the storm or sanitary sewer system or
connections, tap-ins or other appurtenances, of the town, now existing, or any
activity which will modify, interrupt or otherwise alter the flow or discharge
of water into said system, either directly or indirectly. The application for
such permits shall be made on the form furnished by the town, which the
applicant shall supplement with such other information and specifications as
deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25
shall be paid to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   This permit shall also cover any grading work that modifies the flow
of water as set forth in the division (A) above.
   (C)   The permit issued by the Superintendent shall expire 90 days from
issuance thereof or such reasonable extensions of time as set by the said
Superintendent. The Town Council shall, in its discretion, require of any
applicant, a performance bond in such amount and upon such terms as the Council
shall determine to insure the faithful performance of the obligations of said
applicant as contained in the permit and specifications submitted. In the event
that any person shall alter the flow of water within the town limits in
violation of this amendment, the Council shall serve written notice upon said
persons stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction of said violations. The offending person
shall, within the period of time stated on such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 8) (Ord. V-B-1-a(3), passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town’s water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety or steam, gases or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system, of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town’s Water
Department and by the Environmental Management Board, in accordance with 327
I.A.C. 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town’s Water Department to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water system
where cross-connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be as established by the town’s Water Department and may include
a requirement of annual inspection reports being made to the town’s Water
Department.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town’s
Water Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time
to examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of
the town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   The town’s Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after notice is served on the owner,
lessee or occupant of the property or premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
the cross-connection(s) has/have been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town’s Water Department that a cross-connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall immediately install and maintain a reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer in the main water line serving such building on the
premises. The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
      (2)   The location shall be kept on file with the town’s Water
Department.
   (H)   This section does not supersede the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code, but
is supplementary to it.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 9) (Ord. 2009-7-6-B, passed 8-20-2009) Penalty, see
§
52.99
SEWER USE
§ 52.15 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise
be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the costs of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW and all systems; and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its NPDES permit conditions,
sludge use, and disposal requirements and any other federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. This subchapter
authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; authorizes monitoring,
compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review
procedures; requires industrial user reporting; and provides for the setting of
fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program
established herein.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW of the town shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted to
or duties imposed upon the POTW may be delegated by the POTW to other duly
authorized town personnel.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3) above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town POTW.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20º C. expressed in terms of concentration (milligrams per liter
(mg/l)).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only. See also LATERAL LINE.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
precipitation drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance
with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a
specific category of industrial users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works is designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial
degree is not subject to precise definition, but generally means removal of 80%
or greater. Minor incidental removals of 10% to 30% are not considered
substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible include, but not limited to:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and grease of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
POTW.)
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A minimum of four samples collected over a time greater
than 15 minutes that is representative of a discharge which may be either time
or flow proportional.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM).
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in the terms of a concentration,
the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Regional Water Management Division Director or other duly authorized
official of said agency.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
float to the surface and be removable by skimming from wastewater in a
pretreatment facility.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutant into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes or liquid borne waste resulting from
commercial, industrial, or manufacturing processes, trade, or business as
distinct from sanitary sewage from residential use.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). An indirect discharger.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from
INFILTRATION.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation and usage of building
sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent
of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   A discharge that alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources inhibits or disrupts the:
         (a)   Treatment processes or operations;
         (b)   Sludge processes; or
         (c)   Selected sludge use or disposal methods of a POTW.
      (2)   The inhibition or disruption must:
         (a)   Cause a violation of a requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
         (b)   Prevent the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
            1.   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
            2.   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA); and the rules contained in a state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941);
            3.   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
            4.   The Toxic Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   LATERAL LINE. The private sanitary sewer from any structure or dwelling to
and inclusive of the tap belonging to the private owner(s) connecting to the
public sanitary sewer.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit now
or hereafter held by the town and setting forth conditions for the discharge of
any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the town’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation).
   PERSON(S). Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state or local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, municipal agricultural and industrial wastes, and the
characteristics of the wastewater (such as, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity,
color, BOD, chemical oxygen demand (COD), toxicity and odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PRIVATE STORM SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in this subchapter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers. It will have no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and consists of the following increments:
      (1)   INTERCEPTOR. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewater
from trunks and transports the wastewater to the POTW.
      (2)   MAIN. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters from
lateral line(s).
      (3)   TRUNK. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect and transport
wastewater from mains.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works owned by the state
or municipality except it does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances
not connected to a facility providing treatment. This definition includes any
devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of sewage and/or compatible industrial wastes. The term includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances if they convey wastewater to a treatment
plant. The term also means the municipal entity having jurisdiction over the
indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The Region 5 Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) who is the designated approval authority
for the state.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration and inflow earned to the water pollution
control facility by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process earned on in the establishment (this shall include the wastes
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe, drain or conveyance system used to carry off wastewater and
stormwater.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to
adversely affect the POTW’s operation, violate a pretreatment standard or
violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet Part III.A.9.b.(3) of the town’s permit.
   SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards of this subchapter or any
discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including but not limited to, an
accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge which has a reasonable
potential to cause interference or pass through or in any other way violates
the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or permit conditions.
   SLUDGE. Biomass residue generated from the treatment process of water
pollution control facility.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt and groundwater.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
and maintenance of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities to supervise and enforce this subchapter; the POTW’s duly
authorized representative(s).
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid and which is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TAP. The private sewer, sanitary and/or storm, connection on and attached to
the town’s sewer, sanitary and/or storm, system which includes the area to the
first joint on each side of the lateral line connection into the municipal
system and is the responsibility of the private owner(s) for any and all costs
incurred for maintenance, proper operation, repairs and construction to ensure
proper operation.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. One of 126 pollutants, or combination of those pollutants,
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the EPA under the provision of
Section 307 (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of the Act.
   TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. Any final discharge of from the POTW into waters
of the state.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person(s) which discharge to the town’s sewer system and or storm
water system. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes, and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.18 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
GPD    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC    Significant non-compliance
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. § 6901)
TSS    Total suspended solids
USC    United States Code
 
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.19 PROHIBITED POLLUTANTS.
   A user of the POTW, whether or not the user is subject to national
categorical standard or state, local, or any other national pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall not allow the introduction of the following into
the POTW:
   (A)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could pass
through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the POTW;
   (B)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140º F. (60º
C.) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (C)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW
including a discharge having a pH lower than 5 or more than 9.5, unless the
POTW is specifically designed to accommodate such a discharge;
   (D)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause obstruction
of the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as, BOD and
the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration
that could cause interference in the POTW;
   (F)   Heat in an amount that could:
      (1)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in interference
or damage to the POTW; or
      (2)   Exceed a temperature greater than 104º F. (40º C.) at the POTW
treatment plant unless the commissioner, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits.
   (G)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (H)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems; and
   (I)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except when introduced at discharge
points by the POTW and with the permission of the Superintendent.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer, or natural outlet with the approval of the Superintendent.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant; or
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. The Superintendent will consider such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, sewer material
and construction, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the
sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes at the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° F. and 150° F. (0° C.
and 65° C.);
      (2)   Any garbage that has not been property shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated platting solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing objectionable or toxic substances;
or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree than any
such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works
exceeds any limits that may be established by the Superintendent for such
materials;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Material which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations in inert, suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined in this subchapter.
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 DUTY TO CONNECT TO MUNICIPAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, and properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.21(D) of this subchapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary the
Superintendent. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed. The fees shall be in accordance with §§
52.35 through
52.41 of this chapter.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
30,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with the clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Connections to the town’s wastewater collection system shall only be
made in accordance with the town’s sanitary sewer construction standards.
   (B)   Capacity, inspection and permit fees shall be in accordance with the
town’s sewer rate schedule as stipulated in §§
52.35 through
52.41 of this chapter.
   (C)   The permit application shall include plans, specifications and other
information as required by the town’s sanitary sewer construction standards.
   (D)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   An existing building sewer may be used to connect a new building only
when it is found, upon examination and testing, to meet all requirements of the
town’s standards and ordinances.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, connecting to the public sewer, and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the town’s sanitary sewer construction standards.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff of
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
52.20(D) of this subchapter, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.26 of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.25 GREASE TRAPS AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or types will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (A)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily
removable covers.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent and/or Town Manager shall review and
approve all such grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps prior to their
installation and the facility using town services.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. Maintenance activities of all grease, oil and sand
interceptors or traps shall be documented as to the date, maintenance vendor,
disposal site and disposal date.
   (D)   Documentation on a form provided by the town shall be submitted to the
Superintendent no later than 30 days following each maintenance activity.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 SAMPLING.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner to assure it is safe and
accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
   (C)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.27 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, inspector, and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town’s employees and the town shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
52.26(A) of this section.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.28 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   Through this subchapter, the town has the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances such that
the following are limited:
      (1)   A pollutant contributed by an industrial user that has caused or is
likely to cause interference or pass-through at the receiving POTW; and
      (2)   The recurrence of the contributed pollutant’s affect on the POTW.
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with the SUO and, if applicable, any effective industrial wastewater
pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW
which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers; and
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the
permittee for administering the pretreatment program requirements established
in the town’s NPDES permit.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 VIOLATIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person
violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. V-B-1-a(2), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.35 SEWER RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewer system
or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the town,
which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be
in an amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, sewage rates and charges shall be
based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject
to such rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter used.
   (B)   (1)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said sewage
rates and charges shall be determined shall be as follows:
 
Quantity of Water Used per Month Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons              $8.28
Next 3,333 gallons               $7.35
Next 8,000 gallons               $6.43
Next 20,000 gallons              $5.51
Next 66,667 gallons              $4.59
Over 100,000 gallons             $3.67
 
      (2)   The minimum charge for any user shall be based on the size of water
meter installed as follows:
Meter Size Per Month
Meter Size  Per Month
5/8” - 3/4$16.56
1”        $38.35
1-1/4”    $61.40
1-1/2”    $91.90
2”        $153.40
3”        $367.85
4”        $598
6”        $1,379.65
 
   (C)   A flat rate for residential sewage service, where the user is not a
metered water user will be $38.75 per month; except that, the minimum bill
shall not be less than the number of such dwelling units times $16.55 per
month.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 1)
   (D)   The quantity of water obtained from sources other than the municipal
water works and discharged into the public sanitary sewer system may be
determined by the town in such a manner as the town shall elect, and the sewage
treatment service may be billed at the above appropriate rates.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the town’s water works and the water used thereon or therein is not
measured by a meter, or is measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then
the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town,
in order to ascertain the rates of charge, or the owner or other interested
party, at his or her expense, may install and maintain meters, weir, volumetric
measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the town for the determination of the sewage discharge.
   (F)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, is a use of water
supplied by the town’s water works, and in addition uses water from another
source which is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town in order to ascertain the rates of charge,
or the owner or other interested party, at his or her expense may install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (G)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquid into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 20,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewer system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or
any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewer discharge.
   (H)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels or real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the minimum charge and the sewage rates and charges shall apply
to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (I)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments
or housing rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids in to the
town’s sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water
and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in such
case billing shall be for a single service in the matter set out elsewhere
herein; except that, the minimum bill shall not be less than the number of such
dwelling units times $14.10 per month. In the case of trailer parks the number
of dwelling units served through the meter shall be computed and interpreted as
the total number of trailers located and installed in said park plus any other
dwelling units served through the meter. A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted
as a room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are
provided.
   (J)   When a resident applies for a sprinkler credit as a result of watering
his or her yards, said credit shall be determined by calculating the average
January, February and March or other similar three-month period of time average
quantities of water used, and determining an offset for the credit based on
said average as compared to actual usage during sprinkling months.
   (K)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the
minimum charge and in the use charge as may be equitable.
   (L)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein above provided or to rates and charges
established in harmony therewith.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 2)
(Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2),
passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-
1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24, passed - -; Ord. 2017-6-17E,
passed 6-17-2017)
§ 52.36 VOLUME, STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTE.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered, the town shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume, but also on the strength and character of the
sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The town shall
have the right to measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage
system, in such manner and by such method as it may deem practicable in the
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to
determine the proper charge.
   (B)   Extra charges based on the strength of the sewage and liquid wastes
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $.50 per pound of suspended solids in excess of 240
milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $.50 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 240 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharged based upon COD. There shall be an additional charge
of $.50 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 600 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (4)   Rate surcharged based upon ammonia. There shall be an additional
charge of $.90 per pound of ammonia for ammonia received in excess of 20
milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (5)   Rate surcharged based upon oils and grease. There shall be an
additional charge of $.25 per pound of fats, wax, grease, or oils,
collectively, whether eliminated or not, received in excess of 100 milligrams
per liter of fluid.
      (6)   Rate surcharged based upon phosphorus. There shall be an additional
charge of $2 per pound of phosphorous received in excess of four milligrams per
liter of fluid.
   (C)   To determine the strength of the sewage and wastes, samplings and
analysis may be made from time to time whenever it is deemed desirable by the
town. After charges have been established based upon the strength of sewage and
wastes, the owner may request reconsideration of these charges by the town by
submitting a written request. The town may then, at the owner’s expense,
recheck the findings by conducting additional sampling and analysis and may
adjust the charges accordingly if appropriate. Requests by the owner for rate
adjustments may be submitted no more often than once every 12 months.
   (D)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biological oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Federation of Sewage and Industrial Wastes Associations.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 3) (Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord.
V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24,
passed - -; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 52.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste or liquid-borne waste resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains and all other water-carried wastes, except industrial wastes.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 4) (Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord.
V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24,
passed - -)
§ 52.38 PREPARATION AND BILLING.
   (A)   (1)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town
monthly.
      (2)   Said rates and charges will be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the property served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owners, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability
in the event payments are not made as herein required.
      (3)   The owners of the properties served, which are occupied by tenants,
shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the
purpose of determining whether such rates and charges have been paid by such
tenants; provided that, such examination shall be made in the office in which
said records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 5)
   (B)   All charges and/or bills shall be due and payable by users and/or
property owners by the fifteenth day following their mailing to said persons.
In the event that said charges are not paid by the due date, a penalty of 10%
shall be added to the amount of the bill, said penalty to be assessed on time
only for each monthly billing not paid by the due date.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 10)
(Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2),
passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-
1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24, passed - -)
§ 52.39 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economic and efficient management of the town sewer
system and for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewer system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
rates and charges.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 6) (Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord.
V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24,
passed - -)
§ 52.40 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Except as otherwise provided, the rates and charges as herein set forth
shall become effective with the first completed billing period subsequent to
the date of adoption by the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 7) (Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord.
V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24,
passed - -)
§ 52.41 ABILITY TO PROHIBIT.
   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of waste into the town’s
sewer system which, in its discretion, are harmful to the operation of the
sewage works, or to require methods effecting pretreatment of said wastes to
reduce the characteristics of the waste satisfactory of the town.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 8) (Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord.
V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24,
passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the Board’s notice shall be guilty of a Class A infraction and,
on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 per day
for said violation, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection,
with each day that such violation continues being deemed a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 8)
   (C)   Any violation of §
52.03 of this chapter shall be deemed a Class A infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection. Each day a violation of §
52.03 of this chapter exists shall be deemed a separate infraction.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 9)
   (D)   A violation of §
52.25 of this chapter by any party shall be deemed a Class A infraction for
each day said violation occurs subject to a fine in the amount of $500 for each
such violation. Further, any such person found to violate §§
52.15 through
52.29 of this chapter shall be responsible for any and all costs incurred to
the town sewer system as well as any and all expenses incurred by said town,
including but not limited to court costs and attorney’s fees.
   (E)   A violation of §§
52.15 through
52.29 of this chapter shall impose a fine of not more than $2,500 per day, per
violation for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation,
for subsequent violations in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.28 of this chapter shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (G)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (F) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and on conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $50 for
each violation plus any and all attorney fees and costs of collection. Any
subsequent admission or judgment of a violation of the same ordinance or code
provision within a calendar year shall be subject to double the penalty set
forth above as the total civil penalty plus any and all attorney’s fees and
costs of collection.
   (H)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.15 through
52.29 of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
   (I)   Any person desirous of connecting his or her residence or business
sewer line to the sewer lines of the town shall pay the sum of $1,200 to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall receive a permit enabling such connection to be
paid upon payment of the above-referenced sum. Any individual obtaining a
permit to make connection to the sewer lines of the town shall further pay the
sum of $200 to the town at such time as said sewer tap is ready for inspection
by town personnel.
(2013 Code, Title III, Ch. 7, § 9)
(Ord. V-B-2-a(5), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(2),
passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(3), passed - -; Ord. V-B-2-a(4), passed - -; Ord. V-B-
1-(a)5, passed - -; Ord. V-B-2a(6)/2001-9-24, passed - -; Ord. V-B-1-a(2),
passed 2-7-1983; Ord. V-B-1-a(3), passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2009-7-6-B, passed 8-
20-2009; Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 53: INSPECTION, TESTING AND ACCEPTANCE
OF SEWER AND DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEMS
Section
   
53.01   Generally
   
53.02   Inspection costs and fees
   
53.03   Gravity sewer testing
   
53.04   Lift station and force main testing
   
53.05   Closed circuit television inspection
   
53.06   Domestic water main disinfection and testing
   
53.07   Manhole testing and inspection
   
Table A:   Allowable time at 1.0 psig pressure drop table
   
Table B:   Allowable time at 0.5 psig pressure drop table
   
Table C:   Mandrel table
   
Table D:   Manhole test
   
Table E:   Maximum joint deflection
§ 53.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   This chapter describes the minimum requirements and general procedures
for the inspection and testing of sewer and domestic water systems to be
dedicated to the town.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer, drainage, and water systems shall not be accepted nor
will connection permits be issued until all requirements for inspection and
testing, including the filing of affidavits and any other paperwork are
completed. The contractor is responsible for notifying applicable utilities
prior to construction to request locating services and verify utility
locations.
   (C)   Any section of infrastructure not passing the tests prescribed in this
chapter shall be repaired to the satisfaction and approval of the town, and
then retested and reinspected at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.02 INSPECTION COSTS AND FEES.
   Inspection of the construction shall occur throughout installation of the
system and prior to the backfilling of the utilities.
   (A)   Generally. Prior to the issuance of a construction permit and the
commencement of construction, the owner shall make arrangements with the town
to provide construction inspection services.
   (B)   Estimated cost.
      (1)   If inspector services are required by the town, a letter shall be
sent to the owner stating the estimated amount of payment for inspection
services to be rendered by the town or the town’s representative. The amount
provided in the letter shall be 75% of the total estimated cost of the
inspection services based on an estimated project completion time and approved
construction plans. The owner shall be responsible for fees associated with the
county, if applicable, independently. Where a pumping station is involved,
additional time for inspection during construction and final checkout of the
station shall be added.
      (2)   The inspection cost is a pre-construction estimate only. The actual
observation time will vary from project to project and may exceed or be less
than this estimate based upon actual project duration. Observation time at the
site is verified by the contractor and/or a representative of the owner.
Deviations from approved construction documents or owner established schedules
that create the necessity of additional inspections shall be at the owner’s
expense.
      (3)   Seventy five percent of the cost shall be remitted prior to
issuance of a construction permit. The balance of the cost for observation
services, based on total actual observation hours, shall be paid prior to the
town’s acceptance of the system.
   (C)   Inspection scheduling.
      (1)   The contractor and/or owner shall provide notice to the town of the
planned commencement of construction at least two weeks prior to such
commencement.
      (2)   Once the construction starts, the contractor shall be responsible
for informing and/or notifying the assigned inspector of the following:
         (a)   Daily work schedule including any changes in schedule;
         (b)   Two weeks prior notification if work is to be performed on
weekends or holidays;
         (c)   Date tests are to be performed; and
         (d)   Date as-built verification is to be performed.
      (3)   The town, upon written request by the contractor and/or owner, will
schedule the final inspection.
      (4)   All testing required shall be performed under the observation of
the town’s inspector(s). It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to
schedule the testing with the inspector. Test results not obtained in the
presence of the town’s representative will not be accepted.
   (D)   Inspection of service connections.
      (1)   A connection permit shall be obtained for any repair, modification,
or connection of a building sewer or water line to a public utility. Connection
permits shall not be issued for connections to sanitary sewers or water
distribution systems not yet dedicated to and accepted by the town.
      (2)   Following the installation/repair/modification of a service line
and prior to backfilling, the contractor/plumber shall notify the town that the
service line is ready to be inspected. The town shall then have 48 hours to
make the inspection, after which the contractor/plumber may backfill the
trench. Inspections requested on Fridays or on a day proceeding a holiday may
not be completed until the next normal business day.
      (3)   If notification is not provided and the building sewer is
backfilled prior to inspection by the town, the town may require that the
contractor/plumber re-excavate the trench so an inspection can be made.
      (4)   Protection of open trenches and compliance with applicable OSHA
standards is the responsibility of the contractor/plumber.
   (E)   Final grade. Manholes, water meters, fire hydrants and the like shall
be properly set at final grade. Costs associated with raising or lowering
structures due to grade changes will be charged to the contractor, builder, or
property owner.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.03 GRAVITY SEWER TESTING.
   (A)   Once constructed, all sanitary sewers and manholes shall be watertight
and free from leakage. The rate of infiltration, into the sanitary sewer system
between any two adjacent manholes or the entire system shall not be in excess
of 100 gallons per inch of pipe diameter per mile per day (100 gpd/in/mi). The
contractor shall be required to repair all visible leaks to the satisfaction of
the town, even if the infiltration requirements are met.
   (B)   Any leakage found during the infiltration test shall be corrected by
the contractor at his or her expense. The method of repair shall be approved by
the town. Grouting of the joint or crack to repair the leakage shall not be
permitted. If the defective portion of the sanitary sewer cannot be located,
the contractor shall remove and reconstruct as much of the work as necessary to
obtain a system that passes infiltration requirements.
   (C)   All gravity sanitary sewers constructed of flexible pipe (PVC and
HDPE) shall be mandrel tested no sooner than 30 days after installation in
accordance with these standards.
   (D)   The contractor shall bear the complete cost and supply all equipment
necessary to perform the required tests.
   (E)   All tests shall be conducted under the observation of the town’s
inspector. It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to schedule testing with
the inspector.
      (1)   Low pressure air test. All gravity sanitary sewers shall be tested
for infiltration by means of a low pressure air test as generally described
herein. Alternate infiltration tests will only be allowed upon written approval
by the town.
         (a)   Equipment.
            1.   The contractor shall be responsible for providing all
equipment and supplies necessary to perform a low pressure air test including
but not limited to the following:
               A.   Mechanical or pneumatic plugs;
               B.   Air control panel;
               C.   Shut-off valve, pressure regulative valve, pressure relief
valve and input pressure gauge. The pressure regulator or relief valve set
shall be set no higher than 10 psig to avoid over pressurization; and
               D.   Continuous monitoring pressure gauge having a range of 0 to
at least 10 psi. The gauge shall be no less than four inches in diameter with
minimum divisions of 0.10 psi and an accuracy of  ±  0.04 psi.
            2.   To reduce the potential for sewer line over-pressurization,
two separate hoses shall be used. One hose will connect the control panel to
the sealed line for introducing low pressure air. The other will be used for
constant monitoring of air pressure buildup in the line.
            3.   If pneumatic plugs are utilized, a separate hose shall be
required to inflate the plugs.
               A.   Ground water level. The ground water level shall be
determined by excavation by the contractor.
               B.   Air pressure adjustment. The air pressure correction, which
must be added to the 3.5 psig normal test starting pressure, shall be
calculated by dividing the average vertical height, in feet of groundwater
above the invert of the sewer pipe to be tested, by 2.31. The result gives the
air pressure correction in pounds per square inch to be added. The allowable
pressure drop of 1.0 psig (or 0.5 psig) and the minimum time periods are given
in Table A or Table B.
               C.   Maximum test pressure. In no case should the stalling test
pressure exceed 9.0 psig. If the average vertical height of groundwater above
the pipe invert is more than 12.7 feet, the section so submerged may be tested
using 9.0 psig as the starting test pressure. The 9 psig limit is intended to
further ensure workman safety and falls within the range of the pressure
monitoring gauges normally used.
         (b)   Test procedure. The following are general procedures to be
employed in the performance of the test. Test data sheets shall be submitted to
the town.
            1.   Plug installation and testing.
               A.   After a segment of pipe has been backfilled to final grade,
prepared for testing, and the specified waiting period has elapsed, the plugs
shall be securely placed in the line at the ends of each segment to be tested.
               B.   Seal test all plugs before use. Seal testing may be
accomplished by laying one length of pipe on the ground and sealing it at both
ends with the plugs to be checked. The sealed pipe should be pressurized to 9
psig. The plugs shall hold against this pressure without bracing and without
any movement of the plugs out of the pipe. No persons shall be allowed in the
direct line of the pipe while the plugs are tested.
               C.   Plug the upstream end of the line first to prevent any
upstream water from collecting in the test line. This is particularly important
in high groundwater situations.
               D.   When plugs are being placed, the pipe adjacent to the
manhole shall be visually inspected to detect any evidence of shear in the pipe
due to differential settlement between the pipe and the manhole. A probable
point of leakage is at the junction of the manhole and the pipe. This fault may
be covered by the pipe plug, and thus not revealed by the air test.
            2.   Line pressurization. Low pressure air shall be slowly
introduced into the sealed line until the internal air pressure reaches 4.0
psig greater than the average back pressure of any groundwater above the pipe,
but not greater than 9.0 psig.
            3.   Pressure stabilization. After a constant pressure of 4.0 psig
(greater than the average groundwater back pressure) is reached, the air supply
shall be throttled to maintain that internal pressure for at least two minutes.
This time permits the temperature of the entering air to equalize with the
temperature of the pipe wall.
            4.   Timing pressure loss.
               A.   When temperatures have been equalized and the pressure
stabilized at 4.0 psig (greater than the average groundwater back pressure),
the air hose from the control panel to the air supply shall be shut off or
disconnected. The continuous monitoring pressure gauge shall then be observed
while the pressure is decreased to no less than 3.5 psig (greater than the
average back pressure of any groundwater over the pipe). At a reading of 3.5
psig, or any convenient observed pressure reading between 3.5 psig and 4.0 psig
(greater than the average groundwater back pressure), timing shall commence
with a stop watch or other timing device that is at least 99.8% accurate.
               B.   A predetermined required time for a specified pressure drop
shall be used to determine the line’s acceptability. Traditionally, a pressure
drop of 1.0 psig has been specified. However, other pressure drop values may be
specified, provided that the required holding times are adjusted accordingly.
               C.   If the specified pressure drop is 0.5 psig rather than the
more traditional 1.0 psig, the required test times for a 1.0 psig pressure drop
must be halved. Specifying a 0.5 psig pressure drop is desirable in that it can
reduce the time needed to accomplish the air test without sacrificing test
integrity. Therefore, the following subsections contain provisions for both the
traditional 1.0 psig pressure drop and the more efficient 0.5 psig drop, which
is given in parentheses.
            5.   Determination of line acceptance. If the time shown in Table A
or Table B, for the designated pipe size and length elapses before the air
pressure drops 1.0 psig (or 0.5 psig), the section undergoing the test shall be
deemed to have passed and shall be presumed to be free of defects. The test may
be discontinued once the prescribed time has elapsed even though the 1.0 psig
(or 0.5 psig) drop has not occurred.
            6.   Determination of line failure. If the pressure drops 1.0 psig
(or 0.5 psig) before the appropriate time shown in Table A or Table B has
elapsed, the air loss rate shall be considered excessive and the section of
pipe shall be determined to have failed the test.
         (c)   Test times.
            1.   Test time criteria. The Ramseier test time criteria requires
that no test section shall be accepted if it loses more than “Q” cubic feet per
minute per square foot of internal pipe surface area for any portion containing
less than 625 square feet internal pipe surface area. The total leakage from
any test section shall not exceed 625Q cubic feet per minute.
            2.   Allowable air loss rate. A Q value of 0.0015 cubic feet per
minute per square foot shall be utilized to assure the owner of quality pipe
materials, good workmanship and tight joints.
            3.   Test time calculation.
               A.   All test times shall be calculated using Ramseier’s
equation:
                  T = (0.085) (D * K)/Q
                  Where:
                  T =   Shortest time, in seconds, allowed for the air pressure
to drop 1.0 psig
                  K =   0.000419 DL, but not less than 1.0
                  Q =   0.0015 cubic feet/minute/square feet of internal
surface
                  D =   Nominal pipe diameter in inches
                  L =   Length of pipe being tested in feet
               B.   For more efficient testing of long test sections and/or
sections of larger diameter pipes, a timed pressure drop of 0.5 psig may be
used in lieu of the 3.0 psig timed pressure drop. If a 0.5 psig pressure drop
is used, the appropriate required test times shall be exactly half as long as
it is obtained using Ramseier’s equation for “T” cited above.
      (2)   Mandrel test for select pipe.
         (a)   A 5% “GO-NO-GO” mandrel deflection test shall be performed on
all HDPE and PVC gravity sanitary sewer pipes.
         (b)   The mandrel test shall be conducted with a rigid device sized to
pass 5% or less deflection (or deformation) of the base inside diameter of the
pipe. The test shall be conducted no earlier than 30 days after reaching final
trench backfill grade, provided that, in the opinion of the town, sufficient
water densification or rainfall has occurred to thoroughly settle the soil
throughout the entire trench depth. If, in the opinion of the town,
densification has not been achieved within the 30-day time frame, the mandrel
size shall be increased to measure a deflection limit of 3%.
         (c)   The mandrel (GO-NO-GO) device shall be cylindrical in shape and
constructed with nine or ten evenly spaced arms or prongs. Mandrels with less
than the required arms shall not be allowed. The mandrel diameter dimension “D”
shall be equal to the inside diameter of the sanitary sewer. Allowances for
pipe wall thickness tolerances or ovality (from heat, shipping, poor production
and the like) shall not be deducted from the “D” dimension but shall be counted
as part of the 5% or less deflection allowance. Each pipe material or type
required to be mandrel tested shall be tested with a mandrel approved by the
pipe manufacturer, while meeting the requirements of this chapter. The “D”
mandrel dimension shall carry a tolerance of ± 0.01 inches.
         (d)   The mandrel shall be hand pulled through all sewer lines. Any
section of sewer not passing the mandrel shall be uncovered, replaced or
repaired to the town’s satisfaction and then retested.
         (e)   The contact length (L) shall be measured between points of
contact on the mandrel aim. The length shall not be less than that shown in
Table C.
         (f)   The contractor shall provide proving rings to check the mandrel.
Drawings of mandrels with complete dimensions shall be furnished by the
contractor to the town upon request for each diameter and specification of
pipe.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.04 LIFT STATION AND FORCE MAIN TESTING.
   The following section describes the testing that shall be performed on the
lift station pumps, piping, and force main for acceptance and dedication to the
town.
   (A)   Force main testing.
      (1)   Generally. Under the observation of the town’s inspector, force
mains shall be tested for leakage after installation and prior to final
acceptance. The contractor shall be responsible for conducting a hydrostatic
pressure test in accordance with AWWA and ASTM standards for testing pressure
pipe.
      (2)   Testing equipment. The contractor shall be responsible for
providing all of the equipment and tools necessary to conduct the hydrostatic
test including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Hydrostatic test pump (jockey pump);
         (b)   Four and one-half inch diameter calibrated pressure test gauge
with a range of 0-150 psi graduated in 1 psi increments. The manufacturer’s
calibration papers and test date information shall be made available upon the
request of the town;
         (c)   All pipe plugs and/or caps required to perform the hydrostatic
test; and
         (d)   Calibrated/graduated container to measure quantity of water
required to be added during the hydrostatic pressure test to maintain specified
test pressure.
      (3)   Hydrostatic pressure testing. The hydrostatic pressure test shall
be conducted in accordance with the applicable AWWA standard based on force
main material and in accordance with ASTM E103 - “Standard Method for
Hydrostatic Leak Testing.” In conjunction with and in addition to the
aforementioned standards, the hydrostatic pressure test shall proceed as
follows:
         (a)   The force main shall be completely backfilled prior to testing.
         (b)   The influent line and effluent discharge shall be appropriately
plugged or bulkheaded. The plugs/bulkheads shall be equipped with a minimum of
two openings for filling/draining the pipeline and for bleeding air from the
line. Thrust blocking restraints are required at each bulkhead and shall be
installed in accordance with the bulkhead manufacturer’s requirements.
         (c)   The test line shall be filled with water at a slow rate to
prevent air entrapment.
         (d)   Trapped air shall be expelled through high point bleed off
valves as the line is being filled.
         (e)   The test tine shall be pressurized to one and one-half times the
pump shut-off head as determined from the pump manufacturer’s performance
curves or to 100 psi, whichever is greater.
         (f)   Water shall be added to the test segment to maintain the test
pressure for a period of no less than two hours and no more than eight hours.
The town’s inspector must be present for at least the first two hours of
testing.
         (g)   The maximum allowable apparent leakage shall be ten gallons per
inch diameter per mile per day; however, meeting this criteria shall not
preclude the town from requiring repair of any/all visible leakage identified
during the test period.
         (h)   If the force main or any portion thereof fails the hydrostatic
pressure test, the contractor shall remove and replace or otherwise repair the
force main to the satisfaction of the town, and the force main shall be
retested.
   (B)   Wet well leakage testing. Leakage tests of the wet well shall be
observed by the town’s inspector. The wet well shall be tested using the
exfiltration test as described below:
      (1)   After the wet well has been assembled in place, all lifting holes
shall be filled with an approved non-shrinking mortar. The test shall be made
prior to placing any fill material. If the ground water table has been allowed
to rise above the bottom of the wet well, it shall be lowered for the duration
of the test. All pipes and other openings into the wet well shall be suitably
plugged and the plugs braced to prevent blow out.
      (2)   The wet well shall then be filled with water. If the excavation has
not yet been backfilled and observation indicates no visible leakage after one
hour, the wet well may be considered to be satisfactorily water-tight. If the
test described above is unsatisfactory or if the wet well excavation has been
backfilled, the test shall be continued. A period of time up to 24 hours may be
permitted, if the contractor so wishes, to allow for absorption. At the end of
this period, the wet well shall be refilled to the top, if necessary and a
measuring time of at least eight hours begun. At end of the test period, the
wet well shall be refilled to the top and the volume of water added shall be
measured. This amount shall be extrapolated to a 24-hour rate and the leakage
determined on the basis of depth.
      (3)   The leakage for each wet well shall not exceed one gallon per
vertical foot for a 24-hour period. If the test fails this requirement, but the
leakage does not exceed two gallons per vertical foot per day, repairs by
approved methods may be made as directed by the town to bring the leakage
within the allowable rate of one gallon per foot per day. Leakage due to a
defective section or joint or exceeding the two gallon per vertical foot per
day maximum shall be cause for rejection of the wet well. It shall be the
contractor’s responsibility to uncover the wet well as necessary and to
disassemble, reconstruct, or replace it as directed by the town. The wet well
shall then be retested at the owner’s expense.
      (4)   No adjustment in the leakage allowance will be made for unknown
causes such as leaking plugs, absorption and the like; such as, it will be
assumed that all loss of water during the test is a result of leaks through the
joints or through the concrete. The contractor shall take any steps necessary
to assure that the water table is below the bottom of the wet well throughout
the test.
   (C)   Manufacturer’s start-up.
      (1)   Prior to the town’s final inspection of the lift station equipment,
the contractor shall coordinate start-up activities with the pump
manufacturer’s representative. The town’s inspector must be present at the time
of manufacturer’s start-up.
      (2)   The manufacturer’s representative shall thoroughly test and inspect
all components of the system. Any deficiencies in equipment and/or workmanship
noted during the manufacturer’s start-up shall be remedied by the contractor
prior to final inspection.
      (3)   Upon successful completion of the manufacturer’s start-up, the
manufacturer shall deliver to the contractor:
         (a)   Three copies of the completed, witnessed report with cover
letter certifying that all pumping and electrical equipment has been installed
and is operating in accordance with the manufacturer’s requirement;
         (b)   Five sets of operation and maintenance manuals; and
         (c)   One complete set of spare parts as specified in this chapter.
   (D)   Final inspection.  
      (1)   The contractor shall deliver two copies of the manufacturer’s
start-up report at the time of final inspection. In addition, the contractor
shall provide the following pump test equipment and materials:
         (a)   Water to conduct test;
         (b)   Amp/volt meter;
         (c)   Stopwatch;
         (d)   Tape or level rod to measure float settings;
         (e)   Keel to mark float settings on lift station wall;
         (f)   Calibrated test gauge to measure operating head. The gauge shall
be calibrated in feet of water from 0 to 100 feet in one foot increments; and
         (g)   Manufacturer’s pump performance curves.
      (2)   The contractor shall provide a connection for the test gauge on the
blind flanged tee in the valve vault. The stem connection shall be equipped
with a plug valve to close the connection after testing is complete. The
connection shall be left in place and shall be suitable for use as an air bleed
off. At a minimum, pump testing shall include a manual check of all on-off
operations, alarm and run lights; determination of pump capacity for each pump
and both/all pumps simultaneously; and determination of pump capacity with the
force main full. Full force main shall be verified by a pressure gauge.
      (3)   The pumping test results must meet or exceed the design pumping
criteria approved by the town to successfully pass the final inspection. Any
deficiencies noted during the final inspection shall be repaired or replaced by
the contractor to the satisfaction of the town and then reinspected and
retested prior to final acceptance.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.05 CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION INSPECTION.
   (A)   The contractor shall be required to perform a closed circuit
television inspection of the sanitary sewer between manholes prior to final
acceptance if the sewer fails to pass the mandrel test as specified in this
section. The contractor shall thoroughly clean the sewer before the camera is
installed and televising is commenced.
   (B)   A camera equipped with remote control devices to adjust the light
intensity and a minimum of 1,000 lineal feet of sewer cable shall be provided.
The camera shall transmit a continuous image to the television monitor as it is
being pulled through the pipe. The image shall be clear enough to enable the
town representative and others viewing the monitor to easily evaluate the
interior condition of the pipe. The camera should have a digital display for
lineal footage and project number. The camera shall be equipped to pan not less
than 180 degrees. An audio voice-over shall be made during the inspection
identifying any problems encountered.
   (C)   The contractor shall provide a digital copy of the televising for the
entire sewer line as well as a map indicating the pipe segment identification
numbers of all pipe that has been televised. If any pipe or joint is found to
be leaking, the contractor shall be required to repair that portion of the pipe
to the satisfaction and approval of the town.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.06 DOMESTIC WATER MAIN DISINFECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   All domestic water lines must be pressure tested with the town’s
inspector present. The owner/contractor shall notify the Water Department at
least 72 hours in advance of testing. The contractor shall provide all
equipment necessary for the testing.
   (B)   Each section of pipe shall pass a pressure and leakage test in
accordance with the most recent requirements of AWWA Standard C600-93, Section
4.1 - Pressure and Leakage Test. Prior to testing, lines shall be thoroughly
flushed at a minimum rate of 2.5 fps. Flushing shall be accomplished by
partially opening and closing valves and hydrants several times under the
expected line pressure.
   (C)   Thrust blocks, if used, shall have been in place for not less than ten
days prior to testing lines.
      (1)   Test restrictions.
         (a)   Test pressure shall not be less than one and on-half times the
working pressure at the lowest point along the test section, or 150 psi,
whichever is greater, but shall not exceed the pipe, fitting or thrust-
restraint design pressures at any point. Test pressure shall not vary by more
than ±5 psi for the duration of the test, which shall not be less than two
hours.
         (b)   Valves shall not be operated in either direction at differential
pressure exceeding the rated valve working pressure. Use of a test pressure
greater than the rated valve pressure can result in trapped test pressure
between the gates of a double-disc gate valve. For tests at these pressures,
the test setup should include provisions, independent of the valve, to reduce
the line pressure to the rated valve pressure on completion of the test. The
valve can then be opened enough to equalize the trapped pressure with the line
pressure, or opened fully if desired.
         (c)   Test pressure shall not exceed the rated pressure of the valves
when the pressure boundary of the test section includes closed, resilient-
seated gate valves or butterfly valves. No test sections shall exceed five
miles in length without prior approval from the town’s inspector or
representative.
      (2)   Test procedures.
         (a)   All newly laid pipe or any newly valved section shall be
subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of at least one and one-half times the
working pressure at the point of testing or 150 psi, whichever is greater. The
specified test pressure, which is based on the elevation of the lowest point of
the line or section being tested as corrected to the elevation of the test
gauge, shall be applied by means of a pump connection to the pipe in a manner
satisfactory to the town. Allow the system to stabilize at the test pressure
before conducting the leakage test.
         (b)   Before applying the specified test pressure, air shall be
expelled completely from the pipe, valves and hydrants. If permanent air vents
are not located at high points, the contractor shall install corporation cocks
at such points so that air can be expelled as the line is slowly filled with
water. After the air has been expelled, the corporation cocks shall be closed
and the test pressure applied. At the conclusion of the pressure test, the
corporation cocks shall be removed and plugged, or left in place if requested
by the town.
         (c)   All exposed pipe, fittings, valves, hydrants and joints shall be
examined carefully during the test. Any components damaged during or after the
pressure test shall be repaired at the contractor’s expense. The test shall be
repeated until the results are satisfactory to the town.
      (3)   Allowable leakage.
         (a)   Leakage shall be defined as the quantity of water that must be
supplied into the newly laid pipe or any valved section to maintain pressure
within 5 psi of the specified test pressure after the pipe has been filled with
water and the air has been expelled. Leakage shall not be measured by a drop in
pressure in a test section over a period of time.
         (b)   When testing against closed metal-seated valves, an additional
leakage per closed valve of 0.0078 gph/in. of nominal valve size shall be
allowed.
         (c)   When hydrants are in test section, the test shall be made
against closed hydrant valves.
         (d)   No pipe installation will be accepted if the leakage is greater
than that determined by the following formula:
            L = SD T P
            133,200
            Where:
            L =   Allowable leakage in gallons per hour
            S =   Length of pipe tested in feet
            D =   Nominal diameter of the pipe in inches
            P =   Average test pressure during leakage test in pounds per
square inch (gauge)
Allowable Leakage per 1,000 Feet of Pipeline*
Nominal Pipe Diameter (In)
Avg. Test Pressure 3 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 24 30 36 42 48 54
(psi)
Allowable Leakage per 1,000 Feet of Pipeline*
Nominal Pipe Diameter (In)
Avg.
Test     3    4    6    8    10   12   14   16   18   20   24   30   36   42   48   54
Pressure
(psi)
450      0.48 0.64 0.95 1.27 1.50 1.91 2.23 2.56 2.87 3.18 3.82 4.73 5.73 6.69 7.64 8.60
400      0.45 0.60 0.90 1.20 1.50 1.80 2.10 2.40 2.70 3.00 3.60 4.60 5.41 6.31 7.21 8.11
350      0.42 0.56 0.84 1.12 1.40 1.69 1.97 2.25 2.53 2.81 3.37 4.21 5.06 5.90 6.74 7.58
300      0.30 0.52 0.78 1.04 1.30 1.56 1.82 2.08 2.34 2.50 3.12 3.90 4.68 5.46 6.24 7.02
275      0.37 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.24 1.40 1.74 1.99 2.24 2.40 2.99 3.73 4.48 5.23 5.98 6.72
250      0.36 0.47 0.71 0.95 1.19 1.42 1.56 1.90 2.14 2.37 2.85 3.56 4.27 4.99 5.70 6.41
225      0.34 0.45 0.68 0.90 1.13 1.35 1.58 1.80 2.03 2.25 2.70 3.38 4.05 4.73 5.41 6.03
200      0.32 0.43 0.64 0.85 1.06 1.28 1.48 1.70 1.91 2.12 2.55 3.19 3.82 4.48 5.09 5.73
175      0.30 0.40 0.59 0.80 0.99 1.19 1.39 1.50 1.79 1.98 2.38 2.98 3.68 4.17 4.77 5.36
150      0.28 0.37 0.55 0.74 0.92 1.10 1.29 1.47 1.56 1.84 2.21 2.76 3.31 3.86 4.41 4.97
125      0.25 0.34 0.50 0.87 0.84 1.01 1.18 1.34 1.51 1.68 2.01 2.52 3.02 3.53 4.03 4.53
100      0.23 0.30 0.45 0.60 0.75 0.90 1.05 1.20 1.35 1.60 1.80 2.25 2.70 3.15 3.60 4.05
*   If the pipe being tested contains sections of various diameters, the allowable
leakage will be the sum of the computed leakage for each size. To obtain leakages in
liter/hour, multiply the values in the table by 3.785.
 
      (4)   Acceptance of testing. If test results disclose leakage greater
than allowable limits, the contractor shall, at his or her own expense, locate
and make approved repairs as necessary until the leakage is within the
specified allowance. Additional tests performed after the repairs will be at
the contractor’s expense. All visible leaks are to be repaired, regardless of
the amount of leakage.
      (5)   Disinfection of system. After construction is complete, the newly
installed system shall be flushed to remove dirt and foreign material. The
lines shall then be disinfected in accordance with procedures outlined by the
American Water Works Association Standard AWWA C651.
      (6)   Chlorinating requirements.
         (a)   Water shall be supplied to the new system at a constant,
measured rate. In the absence of a meter, the rate may be approximated by
methods such as placing a Pitot gauge in the discharge and measuring the time
to fill a container of known volume.
         (b)   At a point not more than ten feet downstream from the beginning
of the new main, water entering the new main shall receive a dose of chlorine
fed at a constant rate such that the water will have not less than 50 mg/l free
chlorine. To assure that the correct concentration is provided, measure units
shall be taken at regular intervals in accordance with the procedures described
in the current edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water or
Wastewater, AWWA Manual M12, or by using an appropriate chlorine test.
         (c)   The following table lists the amount of chlorine required for
each 100 feet for various diameters of pipe. Solutions of 1% chlorine may be
prepared with sodium hypochlorite or calcium hypochlorite. A solution using
calcium hypochlorite requires one pound per eight gallons of water.
Chlorine Required to Produce 50 mg/l Concentration in 100 Feet of Pipe by
Diameter
Pipe Diameter (in) 100% Chlorine (lb) 1% Chlorine Solution (gal)
Chlorine Required to Produce 50 mg/l Concentration in 100 Feet of Pipe by
Diameter
Pipe Diameter (in) 100% Chlorine (lb) 1% Chlorine Solution (gal)
4                  0.026              0.32
6                  0.060              0.72
8                  0.108              1.30
10                 0.170              2.04
12                 0.240              2.88
16                 0.434              5.20
 
         (d)   While chlorine is being applied, valves shall be positioned so
that the strong chlorine solution will not flow into water mains in active
service. Chlorine application shall not cease until the entire main is filled
with heavily chlorinated water. The chlorinated water shall be retained in the
main for at least 24 hours. During this time, all valves and hydrants in the
section being treated shall be operated to ensure disinfection of all
appurtenances. At the end of this period, the treated water in all portions of
the main shall have a residual of not less than ten mg/l free chlorine.
      (7)   Flushing.
         (a)   After the applicable testing period, heavily chlorinated water
shall be removed in order to prevent damage to the pipe. The chlorinated water
shall be flushed from the main until chlorine measurements show that the
concentration in the water leaving the main is greater than 0.5 mg/l but less
than 2.0 mg/l.
         (b)   Chlorinated water shall be properly discharged to an approved
sanitary sewer. If no sanitary sewer is available, a reducing agent shall be
applied to the water to be wasted in order to thoroughly neutralize the
residual. The following table shows the amount of neutralizing chemicals
required. Where necessary, federal, state and local regulatory agencies should
be contacted to determine if there are special provisions for the disposal of
heavily chlorinated water.
 
Pounds of Chemicals Required to Neutralize Various Residual
Chlorine Concentrations in 100,000 Gallons of Water*
Residual                       Sodium
Chlorine       Sulfur Dioxide  Bisulfate  Sodium Sulfite  Sodium Thiosulfate 
Concentration  (SO2)           (NaHSO3)   (Na2SO3)        (Na2S2O35H2O)
(mg/l)
1              0.8             1.2        1.4             1.2
2              1.7             2.5        2.9             2.4
10             8.3             12.5       14.6            12.0
50             41.7            62.6       73.3            60.0
*   Except for residual chlorine concentration, all amounts are in pounds.
 
      (8)   Bacteriological test.
         (a)   Satisfactory bacteriological test results approved by the
Indiana State Board of Health shall be produced for two successive sets of
samples, collected at 24-hour intervals, before the new mains are accepted for
use. A copy of the test results shall be provided to the town.
         (b)   The contractor shall notify the town when the system and
disinfection is complete and the water is ready for bacteriological testing.
The town representative must be present when the contractor collects the
sample. The contractor must submit the sample to an independent certified
laboratory for bacteriological analysis at the contractor’s expense.
         (c)   Samples shall be collected from the end of the line and tested
for bacteriological quality in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater. At least one set of samples shall be
collected from the new main and one from each branch. In long mains, samples
shall be collected along the length of the line, at reasonable intervals, as
well as at its end. Samples for bacteriological analysis shall be collected in
sterile bottles treated with sodium thiosulfate. No hose or fire hydrant shall
be used in the collection of samples.
      (9)   Re-testing and disinfection. If the test results are
unsatisfactory, the contractor shall re- flush the lines and repeat the
disinfection. Testing shall be repeated as noted above until the testing
results are satisfactory and the mains are approved for service.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
§ 53.07 MANHOLE TESTING AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each manhole shall be visually inspected for leakage or evidence
thereof. If the manhole shows leakage, it shall be repaired to the satisfaction
of the town and reinspected and retested at the contractor’s expense.
   (B)   Manholes will be checked by the town after installation and again
before the one-year warranty period ends. If manholes show signs of leakage,
they shall be vacuum tested by an approved company and repaired at the
contractor’s expense.
   (C)   The contractor shall test all manholes using the Standard Test Method
for Concrete Sewer Manholes by the Negative Air pressure (Vacuum) Test.
      (1)   Scope.
         (a)   This section covers procedures for testing precast concrete
manhole sections using the vacuum test method to demonstrate the integrity of
the installed materials and the construction procedures. This test method is
used for testing concrete manhole sections utilizing mortar, mastic, or
gasketed joints and is intended to be used as a preliminary test to enable the
contractor to demonstrate the condition of the concrete manholes prior to
backfill. It may also be used to test manholes after backfilling; however, the
contractor must correlate the testing with the connector supplier.
         (b)   This test method is the companion to metric Test Method C1244M;
therefore no SI equivalents are shown in this test method.
      (2)   Reference documents.
         (a)   ASTM standards:
            1.   C822, Terminology Relating to Concrete Pipe and Related
Products/2;
            2.   C924, Practice for Testing Concrete Pipe Sewer Lines by Low-
pressure Air Test Method/2; and
            3.   C969, Practice for Infiltration and Exfiltration Acceptance
Testing of Installed Precast Concrete Pipe Sewer Lines/2.
         (b)   This practice is under the jurisdiction of ASTM C-13 on concrete
pipe, most recent edition.
      (3)   Procedures.
         (a)   1.   All lift holes and any pipes entering the manholes are to
be plugged. A vacuum will then be drawn and the vacuum drop over a specified
time period will be used to determine the acceptability of the manhole.
            2.   The test head shall be placed at the top of the manhole in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
            3.   A vacuum of 10 in. of mercury shall be drawn on the manhole,
the valve on the vacuum line of the test head will be closed and the vacuum
pump shut off. The time shall be measured for the vacuum to drop to 9 in. of
mercury.
            4.   The manhole shall be considered to pass if the time for the
vacuum reading to drop from 10 in. of mercury to 9 in. of mercury meets or
exceeds the values indicated in Table D.
            5.   If the manhole fails the initial test, necessary repairs shall
be made using an approved method. The manhole shall then be retested until a
satisfactory test result is obtained.
         (b)   Use or failure of this vacuum test shall not preclude acceptance
by appropriate water infiltration or exfiltration testing if approved by the
town.
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE A: ALLOWABLE TIME AT 1.0 PSIG PRESSURE DROP TABLE
Specification Time Required for a 1.0 psig Pressure Drop
for Size and Length of Pipe Indicated for Q = 0.0015
         2       3       4
1        Minimum Length  Time
Pipe     Time    for     for    Specification Time for Length (L) Shown (min:
Diameter (min:   Minimum Longer sec)
(in.)    sec)    Time    Length
                 (ft)    (sec)
                                100 150 200 250 ft 300 ft 350 ft 400 ft 450 ft
                                ft  ft  ft
Specification Time Required for a 1.0 psig Pressure Drop
for Size and Length of Pipe Indicated for Q = 0.0015
         2       3       4
1        Minimum Length  Time
Pipe     Time    for     for    Specification Time for Length (L) Shown (min:
Diameter (min:   Minimum Longer sec)
(in.)    sec)    Time    Length
                 (ft)    (sec)
                                100   150   200   250   300   350   400   450
                                ft    ft    ft    ft    ft    ft    ft    ft
4        3:46    597     .380 L 3:46  3:46  3:46  3:46  3:46  3:46  3:46  3:46
6        5:40    398     .854 L 5:40  5:40  5:40  5:40  5:40  5:40  5:42  6:24
8        7:34    298     1.520  7:34  7:34  7:34  7:34  7:36  8:52  10:08 11:24
                         L
10       9:26    239     2.374  9:26  9:26  9:26  9:53  11:52 13:51 15:49 17:48
                         L
12       11:20   199     3.418  11:20 11:20 11:24 14:15 17:05 39:56 22:47 25:38
                         L
15       14:10   159     5.342  14:10 14:10 17:48 22:15 26:42 31:09 35:36 40:04
                         L
18       17:00   133     7.692  17:00 19:13 25:38 32:03 38:27 44:52 51:16 57:41
                         L
21       19:50   114     10.470 19:50 26:10 34:54 43:37 52:21 61:00 69:48 78:31
                         L
24       22:40   99      13.674 22:47 34:11 45:34 56:58 68:22 79:46 91:10 102:
                         L                                                33
27       25:30   88      17.306 28:51 43:16 57:41 72:07 86:32 100:  115:  129:
                         L                                    57    22    48
30       28:20   80      21.366 35:37 53:25 71:13 89:02 106:  124:  142:  160:
                         L                              50    38    26    15
33       31:10   72      25.852 43:05 64:38 86:10 107:  129:  150:  172:  193:
                         L                        43    16    43    21    53
36       34:00   66      30.768 51:17 76:55 102:  128:  153:  179:  205:  230:
                         L                  34    12    50    29    07    46
 
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE B: ALLOWABLE TIME AT 0.5 PSIG PRESSURE DROP TABLE
Specification Time Required for a 0.5 psig Pressure Drop
for Size and Length of Pipe Indicated for Q = 0.0015
         2       3       4
1        Minimum Length  Time
Pipe     Time    for     for    Specification Time for Length (L) Shown (min:
Diameter (min:   Minimum Longer sec)
(in.)    sec)    Time    Length
                 (ft)    (sec)
                                100 150 200 250 ft 300 ft 350 ft 400 ft 450 ft
                                ft  ft  ft
Specification Time Required for a 0.5 psig Pressure Drop
for Size and Length of Pipe Indicated for Q = 0.0015
         2       3       4
1        Minimum Length  Time
Pipe     Time    for     for     Specification Time for Length (L) Shown (min:
Diameter (min:   Minimum Longer  sec)
(in.)    sec)    Time    Length
                 (ft)    (sec)
                                 100  150   200   250   300   350   400   450
                                 ft   ft    ft    ft    ft    ft    ft    ft
4        1:53    597     .190 L  1:53 1:53  1:53  1:53  1:53  1:53  1:53  1:53
6        2:50    398     .427 L  2:50 2:50  2:50  2:50  2:50  2:50  2:51  3:12
8        3:47    298     .760 L  3:47 3:47  3:47  3:47  3:48  4:26  5:04  5:42
10       4:43    239     1.187 L 4:43 4:43  4:43  4:57  5:56  6:55  7:54  8:54
12       5:40    199     1.709 L 5:40 5:40  5:42  7:08  8:33  9:58  11:24 12:50
15       7:05    159     2.671 L 7:05 7:05  8:54  11:08 13:21 15:35 17:48 20:02
18       8:30    133     3.846 L 8:30 9:37  12:49 16:01 19:14 22:26 25:38 28:51
21       9:55    114     5.235 L 9:55 13:05 17:27 21:49 26:11 30:32 34:54 39:16
24       11:20   99      6.837 L 11:  17:57 22:48 28:30 34:11 39:53 45:35 51:17
                                 24
27       12:45   88      8.653 L 14:  21:38 28:51 36:04 43:16 50:30 57:42 46:54
                                 25
30       14:10   80      10.683L 17:  26:43 35:37 44:31 53:25 62:19 71:13 80:07
                                 48
33       15:35   72      12.926  21:  32:19 43:56 53:52 64:38 75:24 86:10 96:57
                         L       33
36       17:00   66      15.384  25:  38:28 51:17 64:06 76:55 89:44 102:  115:
                         L       39                                 34    23
 
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE C: MANDREL TABLE
9 Arm Mandrel
                           ASTM D3034
                           SDR 35
Nom. Dia. (in) Length (ft) For Deflection of
9 Arm Mandrel
                           ASTM D3034
                           SDR 35
Nom. Dia. (in) Length (ft) For Deflection of
                           3%    5%
                           (in.) (in.)
8              8           7.71  7.56
10             10          9.63  9.45
12             10          11.46 11.26
15             12          14.03 13.78
 
10 Arm Mandrel
                           ASTM D3034
                           SDR 35
Nom. Dia. (in) Length (ft) For Deflection of
10 Arm Mandrel
                           ASTM D3034
                           SDR 35
Nom. Dia. (in) Length (ft) For Deflection of
                           3%    5%
                           (in.) (in.)
8              8           7.72  7.58
10             10          9.65  9.48
12             10          11.48 11.29
15             12          14.06 13.82
 
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE D: MANHOLE TESTING
Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters
Diameter (in)
           30 33 36 42 48 54 60 66 72
Depth (ft) Time (seconds)
Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters
Diameter (in)
           30 33 36 42 48 54 60 66  72
Depth (ft) Time (seconds)
8          11 12 14 17 20 23 26 29  33
10         14 15 18 21 25 29 33 36  41
12         17 18 21 25 30 34 39 43  49
14         20 21 25 30 35 41 46 51  57
16         22 24 29 24 40 46 52 58  67
18         25 27 32 38 45 52 59 65  73
20         28 30 35 42 50 53 65 72  81
22         31 33 39 46 55 64 72 79  89
24         33 36 42 51 59 64 78 87  97
26         36 39 46 55 64 75 85 94  105
28         39 42 49 59 69 81 91 101 113
30         42 45 53 63 74 87 98 108 121
 
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
TABLE E: MAXIMUM JOINT DEFLECTION
Maximum Joint Deflection Full-Length Pipe: Push-On Type Joint
Nominal Pipe    Deflection                         Approximate Radius of Curve
Size (in   ) Angle-0,   Maximum Offset-S in (m) R Produced by Succession of
                (deg)                              Joints, ft (m)
                           L= 18 ft L = 20 ft      L=18 ft       L = 20 ft
                           (5.5 m)  (6.1 m)        (5.5 m)    (6.1 m)
Maximum Joint Deflection Full-Length Pipe: Push-On Type Joint
Nominal Pipe    Deflection                         Approximate Radius of Curve
Size (in   ) Angle-0,   Maximum Offset-S in (m) R Produced by Succession of
                (deg)                              Joints, ft (m)
                           L= 18 ft   L = 20 ft    L=18 ft       L = 20 ft
                           (5.5 m)    (6.1 m)      (5.5 m)    (6.1 m)
3-12            5          19 (0.48)  21 (0.53)    205 (62)      230 (70)
14-36           3*         11 (0.28)  12 (0.30)    340 (104)     380 (116)
42-48           2*         7.5 (0.19) 8 (0.20)     510 (155)     570 (174)
54              1-1/2*     5.5 (0.14) 6 (0.15)     608 (207)     760 (232)
*   For 14 in. and larger push-on joints, maximum deflection angle maybe larger
than shown above.
 
Maximum Joint Deflection Full-Length Pipe: Mechanical Joint Pipe
Nominal Pipe    Deflection                         Approximate Radius of Curve
Size (in   ) Angle-0,   Maximum Offset-S in (m) R Produced by Succession of
                (deg)                              Joints, ft (m)
                           L= 18 ft L = 20 ft      L=18 ft       L = 20 ft
                           (5.5 m)  (6.1 m)        (5.5 m)    (6.1 m)
Maximum Joint Deflection Full-Length Pipe: Mechanical Joint Pipe
Nominal Pipe    Deflection                         Approximate Radius of Curve
Size (in   ) Angle-0,   Maximum Offset-S in (m) R Produced by Succession of
                (deg)                              Joints, ft (m)
                           L= 18 ft    L = 20 ft   L=18 ft       L = 20 ft
                           (5.5 m)     (6.1 m)     (5.5 m)    (6.1 m)
3-4             8-18       31 (0.79)   35 (0.89)   125 (38)      140 (43)
6               7-07       27 (0.69)   30 (0.76)   145 (44)      160 (49)
8-12            5-21       20 (0.51)   22 (0.56)   195 (59)      220 (67)
14-16           3-35       13.5 (0.34) 15 (0.38)   285 (87)      320 (98)
18-20           3-00       11 (0.28)   12 (0.30)   340 (104)     380 (116)
24-30           2-23       9 (0.23)    10 (0.25)   450 (137)     500 (152)
36              2-05       8 (0.20)    9 (0.23)    500 (152)     550 (167)
42-48           2-00       7.5 (0.19)  8 (0.20)    510 (155)     570 (174)
 
(Ord. 2019-8-26(A), passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 54: SEPTAGE WASTE
Section
   
54.01   Licenses
   
54.02   Customer invoice requirements
   
54.03   Records retention requirements
   
54.04   Wastewater Utility billing and payments
   
54.05   Delivery locations and dates
   
54.06   Acceptable waste types
   
54.07   Unloading process
   
54.08   Safety and conduct
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 LICENSES.
   (A)   To receive a local septage license, waste hauler shall submit a copy
of the state permit and $50, local license fee payable to the Town of Topeka
Wastewater, c/o Town Clerk, 124 E. Lake Street, PO Box 127, Topeka, IN 46571.
The local license is valid for one calendar year and must be renewed every May.
   (B)   It is the septage waste hauler's responsibility to provide the
Wastewater Utility with updated information within 15 days of a change in
ownership, address, phone number, authorized vehicle, IDEM business permit, or
any other similar information related to their waste hauling business.
   (C)   The Wastewater Utility will not accept any hauled waste from any
person or business until we have received evidence that a valid wastewater
management permit has been issued by the solid waste permit section of the
Indiana Department Environmental Management Office of Land Quality (IDEM OLQ)
and a valid hauler license from the Town Clerk's office has been obtained. A
state permit can be obtained by submitting an application for septage
management business permit (state form 50399) to the Office of Land Quality
(IDEM OLQ). The phone number for the solid waste permit section is (317)-232-
4473.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.02 CUSTOMER INVOICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with 327 IAC 7.1-6-1(3), septage waste haulers must
provide their customer with a completed, legible invoice showing the following:
      (1)   The customer's name and address.
      (2)   The date the customer's sewage disposal system (or grease trap) was
cleaned.
      (3)   The amount of wastewater removed from the system in gallons.
   (B)   The invoice must bear the following:
      (1)   The name and address of business.
      (2)   The wastewater management state permit number.
      (3)   The license number of the vehicle used in cleaning the customer's
sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.03 RECORDS RETENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State law 327 IAC 7.1-3-3 requires waste haulers to keep accurate
records of activities including:
      (1)   The contract or invoices for all wastewater service activities;
      (2)   The date, location, and method of disposal of wastewater associated
with each service (327 IAC 7.1-6-1(b)); and
      (3)   Land application records as required by 327 IAC 7.1-8-7, if
applicable.
   (B)   Such records must be:
      (1)   Located at the permitted wastewater management business address;
      (2)   Made available during normal business hours for inspection (I.C.
13-14-2-2);
      (3)   Updated weekly (except as required at 327 IAC 7.l-8-7(a)(5)); and
      (4)   Maintained for at least five years.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.04 WASTEWATER UTILITY BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The disposal fee for septic tank and waste originally was set at $0.06
per gallon and effective May 1, 2024 shall be set at $0.10 per gallon when
delivered by a registered waste hauler.
   (B)   The Wastewater Utility will provide a flow meter at the disposal
location. If the flow meter is not functioning properly or if the hauler is
asked to deliver the wastewater to a different location that is not metered,
the hauler will be billed based on the tank capacity or estimated volume based
on the visible volume of waste in the sight glass of the delivery truck.
   (C)   Billing statements are prepared and mailed on a monthly basis.
Payments are due and payable during the following month. A 10% late penalty
will be added to the bill for each month that the balance is not paid in full
by the due date. Any account that is delinquent for 90 days or more will be
referred to the attorney's office for collection and the acceptance of any
further waste loads will be denied. IDEM OLQ will be notified of any suspension
or revocation. The waste hauler will be responsible for all costs of
collection.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.05 DELIVERY LOCATIONS AND DATES.
   (A)   Septic loads can be disposed at the wastewater treatment facility
between from 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., five days per week. The driver should
arrive at least 15 minutes prior to the closing time to fill out paperwork,
collect a sample, and off-load the waste hauler’s holding tank before the
facility closes. If the delivery location changes for any reason, the company
will be notified by phone, as the changes occur.
   (B)   Drivers must contact a Wastewater Utility plant operator before
arriving at the disposal location. Drivers may call either of these numbers:
primary operator mobile phone (260)-350-1660, secondary phone (219)-207-5173.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.06 ACCEPTABLE WASTE TYPES.
   As a designated representative of the waste hauling company, the delivery
driver must certify that the information they have provided on the delivery
receipt paperwork is true, accurate and complete to the best of their knowledge
and belief and that the load does not contain any prohibited wastes. Falsifying
information on the delivery confirmation receipt may lead to suspension or
revocation of the company's disposal privileges. All loads are subject to
verification; therefore, each component of the load must be listed and
verifiable upon request by a copy of a dated customer receipt showing origin,
nature, and volume of waste. Grease trap waste is not accepted. No mixed loads
allowed. No industrial wastewater will be accepted without prior approval.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.07 UNLOADING PROCESS.
   (A)   A sample bottle will be provided for each truck delivering waste for
disposal. Drivers must collect a sample of the waste from the truck and bring
it to the attendant on duty before off-loading the vehicle. The attendant will
test the pH while the driver is filling out the required receipt and report
forms. Once the pH has been determined to be within the range of 5.0 to 10.0,
the driver may proceed to the unloading area. If load is outside the acceptable
pH range the load will be rejected and the driver will not be allowed to
unload.
   (B)   The driver must stay at the receiving location until the waste has
completely drained through the receiving station. The driver is responsible for
any spills or leaks from the truck during the evacuation of the waste at the
utility's designated waste receiving areas. Any hauling company that leaves the
waste receiving area in a condition unsatisfactory to the utility will be
required return to the treatment plant immediately to finish cleaning up the
station.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.08 SAFETY AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Waste haulers, visitors, vendors, contractors, and outside company
representatives are expected to conduct business with the town Wastewater
Utility employees and/or on the facility premises in a professional, business-
like manner and follow the Wastewater Utility's safety requirements. Any
behavior contrary to this expectation will not be tolerated and the driver will
be asked to leave immediately. Unacceptable behavior may result in suspension
of the company's disposal privileges.
   (B)   The Director of the Wastewater Utility may suspend or revoke a hauling
company's dumping privileges at their discretion. Privileges may be suspended
or revoked for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the
following: failure to comply with safety or conduct requirements, failure to
pay sewage billing fees in a timely manner, falsifying or omitting information
on a delivery confirmation receipt, illegal dumping, or other similar issues.
The Indiana Department of Environmental Management will be notified of any
company's suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Additional enforcement proceedings for violations of the this chapter
may include the following penalties:
      (1)   First offense: $500 fine;
      (2)   Second offense: $1,000 fine;
      (3)   Third offense: license revoked.
   (B)   Any costs from enforcement or collections will be the responsibility
of the individual or company in violation.
(Ord. 2024-4-22(B), passed 4-22-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PLAYGROUND ALLEY
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Authority
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Names of streets
   
70.04   Slow traffic lanes
   
70.05   Jake brakes
   
70.06   Loud or unnecessary noise
   
70.07   Proof of control
   
70.08   Enforcement authority
   
70.09   Oversized loads
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This traffic code is based off of the following ordinances: Ord. III-A-1-a
(1), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-a(2), passed 4-10-1995; Ord. III-A-1-a(6), passed
8-22-1983; Ord. III-A-1-a(1)-a, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. III-A-1-a(8), passed 4-
11-1994; Ord. III-A-1-a(10), passed 1-26-1996; Ord. III-A-1-a(11), passed 9-9-
1996; Ord. III-A-1-a(12), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-a(13), passed 8-26-2002;
Ord. III-A-1-a(13)A, passed 3-25-2002; Ord. III-A-1-a(14), passed 9-23-2002;
Ord. III-A-1-a(15), passed 10-14-2002; Ord. III-A-1a(16), passed 2-24-2003;
Ord. III-A-1-a(17), passed 5-10-2004; Ord. 2004-9-13, passed 9-13-2004; Ord.
III-A-1-a(19), passed 11-29-2004; Ord. 2009-8-10, passed 8-10-2009; Ord. 2009-
10-12, passed 10-16-2009; Ord. 2010-12-13-D, passed 12-13-2010; Ord. III-A-1-a
(21)/2011-9-12, passed 9-26-2011; Ord. 2012-6-15, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2012-
3-12-C, passed 3-23-2012. Ordinances amending or revising any provision of this
traffic code passed later than the last ordinance in this list are placed
directly under corresponding sections herein.
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY.
   This traffic code is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-94,
9-21-1-1, 9-21-1-2, 9-21-1-3, 9-21-1-4, 9-21-1-5 and 9-21-4-3.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 1)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases, when used in this traffic code, shall have their
ordinary, usual and customary meaning; except that, in case of conflict, the
statutory definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq. shall prevail.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 2)
§ 70.03 NAMES OF STREETS.
   The street, alley and highway names hereafter used in this traffic code
shall be as shown on the recorded plats of the town on record in the Recorder’s
office in and for the county; except that, as to newly named streets, the plat
of said town drawn by E.T. Coy on 4-4-1969, incorporated herein by this
reference, and which is being filed with this traffic code in the records of
the town in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall be used to supplement same.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 3)
§ 70.04 SLOW TRAFFIC LANES.
   In the town, whenever a second or right-hand lane (not otherwise designated
as a turn lane) is available for travel, it shall be deemed a slow traffic
lane, and to the extent possible, so marked. Whenever a slow traffic lane is
available, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle, human powered, animal powered
or otherwise required to display a slow moving vehicle sign, to leave said lane
unless the reason is to overtake another such vehicle or emergency in nature.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful upon any road in or within 200 feet of a residential
zone within the town limits to apply a “Jake Brake” or similar engine brake
retarder device on a semi-tractor, tractor trailer combination or multi-axle
motor vehicle, or to utilize the engine to slow or reduce the speed of any said
vehicle or combination thereof so as to create a situation where the engine,
when utilized to slow said vehicle results in a loud noise emanating from said
vehicle.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 LOUD OR UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which make an unusually
loud or unnecessary noise, or which is not equipped with a muffler in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise or excessive smoke.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in a loud or
disorderly manner so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the residential
neighborhood.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PROOF OF CONTROL.
   Unless the registered owner of a motor vehicle shall show that the operation
of the offending vehicle at the time and place of alleged offense was
unauthorized by him or her, the current motor vehicle registration of any
offending vehicle shall constitute prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the motor vehicle at the time of such violation.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 20)
§ 70.08 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to direct the Town Marshal, or any other
agent, to remove or tow away, or to have removed or towed away by any
commercial towing serve any motor vehicle illegally parked pursuant to this
traffic code, or Ord. 79-4-2-A (now III-A), or any vehicle which blocks the use
of a fire hydrant, or may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle, or
where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard or potential
traffic hazard. Any cars so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a
safe place and restored to the owner or operator of the same upon payment of
commercial towing service bill and a presentation of proper proof of ownership.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 21)
   (B)   (1)   The town is hereby authorized and directed to post signs, paint
signs on the pavement or otherwise notify vehicle operators of the existence of
this traffic code.
      (2)   Said employees are further directed to effectuate the provisions of
this traffic code as soon as same can be done.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 23)
§ 70.09 OVERSIZED LOADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle transporting a load which requires a
designation of oversized load, or a load which meets the definition of
oversized load as same may exist from time to time, and as defined by I.C.
Chapter 9, or any other Indiana Code concerning same, to utilize Fought Avenue
from Lake Avenue to the south town line for any purpose, said avenue being
restricted from utilization by units transporting such loads.
(Ord. 2020-5, passed 6-8-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the foregoing
provisions of this traffic code, or failing to obey any of the signs described
above and erected pursuant to same, or otherwise violating any of the portions
hereof shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   For Class A infractions: $100;
         (b)   For Class B infractions: $75;
         (c)   For Class C infractions: $50; and
         (d)   For Class D infractions: $25.
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of
the same ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be subject to
double the penalty set forth above as the total civil penalty, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 24)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
70.05 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 18)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
70.06 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 19)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Restricted parking
   
71.03   Overnight parking in parks
   
71.04   Moving parked cars
   
71.05   Public parking lots
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKING LOT. Any parking lot owned or maintained by the town.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any street, including county roads, within the limits of the
town.
   VEHICLES. Automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, motor homes,
motorcycles and any other vehicles of any description designed to travel on two
or more wheels.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4, § 1) (Ord. III-A-1-a(5), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-
a(7), passed 1-24-1985)
§ 71.02 RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on a public street within the
town within 20 feet of the intersection of said public street and any other
public street.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked upon a public street, or in a public parking lot,
within the town shall be moved within 24 hours of the time of notice to do so
given to the owner of said vehicle by the Town Marshal.
   (C)   No vehicles shall be parked on any public street or on public property
within the town in such a manner as to obstruct the vision of drivers
approaching an intersection from any direction.
   (D)   Any vehicle parked on private property within the town in such a
manner as to obstruct the vision of drivers approaching an intersection from
any direction shall be moved upon notice to do so given to the owner of said
vehicle by the Town Marshal.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to leave a motor vehicle or other vehicle of any
type on a town parking lot for more than 24 consecutive hours. If an individual
or business entity desires to leave a vehicle in a town parking lot for more
than 24 hours, that individual must apply to the Town Council and receive a
permit for same, and upon receipt of said permit, will be permitted to leave
said vehicle parking in the town parking lot for more than 24 consecutive
hours, so long as said permit is displayed in the windshield area of the
vehicle. Said permit must be applied for annually and shall be assessed a fee
of $25.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4, § 2) (Ord. III-A-1-a(5), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-
a(7), passed 1-24-1985; Ord. 2019-6-10, passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 OVERNIGHT PARKING IN PARKS.
   No overnight parking shall be permitted in or upon any of the town-owned
parks, for non-park purposes on weekends, and there shall be no parking
absolute from 11:30 p.m. to 5:00 a.m., officer discretion to be exercised.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 5, § 1) (Ord. III-A-1-a(9), passed 8-14-1995)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 MOVING PARKED CARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to leave a motor vehicle parked upon
a town street in the town for a period in excess of two weeks without moving
said motor vehicle from any specific parking spot. It is the intent of this
section to require the movement of vehicles upon town streets so as to permit
routine maintenance, street cleaning and other necessary town functions which
cannot be accomplished by vehicles which sit for an inordinate amount of time
in a specific place.
(2013, Title IV, Ch. 6, § 1) (Ord. III-A-1-(a)(13), passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PUBLIC PARKING LOTS.
   The town, through the office of the Town Marshal, is hereby authorized to
regulate the parking of vehicles and traffic on the property of Country Squire
Estates, Topeka Trace Apartments, Lake Bei Der Bank Apartments, West Edge
Apartments and other public parking lots located at businesses, churches and
schools.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 7) (Ord. III-A-1-a(8), passed 8-9-1993)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.02(A) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.02(B) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
         (b)   In addition to the fines for any infractions committed as listed
herein, any vehicle parked in violation of provisions of §
71.02(B) of this chapter shall be towed away at the owner’s expense.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4, § 3)
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.02(C) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
      (4)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.02(D) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
      (5)   Any individual violating §
71.02(E) of this chapter shall have committed a Class B infraction and shall be
fined $50 for the first infraction and $100 for every violation of §
71.02(E) of this chapter thereafter. Any vehicle parked in violation of §
71.02(E) of this chapter may also be ordered towed by the Town Marshal, manager
or other town official, all at owner’s expense.
      (6)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of §
71.02 of this chapter or other code provision within a calendar year shall be
deemed a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4, § 2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.03 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of §
71.03 of this chapter within a calendar year shall be deemed a Class A
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s fees, costs of collection and any
reasonable expenses incurred by the town.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 5, § 2)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.04 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees, costs of collection and any expenses incurred by the town including, but
not limited to, towing and storage of said vehicle.
(2013, Title IV, Ch. 6, § 2)
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of §
71.04 of this chapter within a calendar year shall be deemed a Class A
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s fees, costs of collection and any
other reasonable expenses incurred by the town.
(2013, Title IV, Ch. 6, § 3)
(Ord. III-A-1-a(5), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-(a)(13), passed - -; Ord. III-A-1-
a(7), passed 1-24-1985; Ord. III-A-1-a(9), passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 2019-6-10,
passed 6-10-2019)
CHAPTER 72: SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
72.01   Declaration of emergencies
   
72.02   Prohibited parking
   
72.03   Towing and moving vehicles
   
72.04   Enforcement procedures; notice
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCIES.
   The Town Council empowers the Town Manager to declare a snow emergency
within the corporate limits of the town at any time and from time to time as in
the complete discretion of said Town Manager may be necessary to secure the
orderly movement of traffic and removal of snow from the streets of the town.
Said declaration shall be announced to the public in such a manner as to inform
the largest number of residents of the town within the constraints of the
situation.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 8, § 1) (Ord. III-A-1-d(7), passed 12-3-1984)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Upon the declaration of a snow emergency, no vehicle shall be parked, remain
parked or be left standing on any uncleared portion of Lake Street from the
west corporate limits of the town to the east corporate limits of the town, nor
on Main Street from the north corporate limits of the town to south corporate
limits of the town.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 8, § 2) (Ord. III-A-1-d(7), passed 12-3-1984)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 TOWING AND MOVING VEHICLES.
   The town shall have the right to direct the Town Marshal or any other agents
to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away, by any commercial
towing service, any motor vehicle illegally parked under this chapter. Any
motor vehicle so towed away shall be stored in a safe place and restored to the
owner or operator of the same upon the payment of the commercial towing bill,
presentation of proper proof of ownership and proof of payment of the penalty
under this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. III-A-1-d(7), passed 12-3-1984)
§ 72.04 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or any duly qualified and acting law
enforcement officer shall find that any person has committed any action which
is declared unlawful by the provisions of this chapter, such Marshal or officer
may give written notice to such person of such violation. All such notices
shall be serially numbered and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
         (b)   The location of the violation;
         (c)   The signature of the Marshal or officer;
         (d)   The date of the violation; and
         (e)   The amount of penalty prescribed by §
72.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   The notice shall also contain the following statement: “Within 72
hours from the time of violation as shown on this notice of violation, bring
this notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, Topeka, Indiana, 46571,
or mail fine to such address within 72 hours from the time of violation or
warrant will be issued for arrest which may result in extra costs.”
      (3)   All such written notices shall be executed by the Town Marshal or
officer in triplicate. One copy shall be served upon the violator as herein
provided, one copy shall be filed in the office of the Town Marshal and one
copy with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Any person receiving written notice of a violation pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall, within 72 hours from the date of the
violation, appear at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, Topeka, Indiana,
46571, and pay the prescribed penalty, by depositing such amount along with the
notice of violation with the officer on duty or in the place provided and
marked for such purpose, or such person within such time may mail such fine
with the written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. In the event that said
72-hour period shall expire on Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such violator
shall have up to 4:00 p.m. on the next day following that the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office is open. The penalties which shall be payable in compromise of the
violations of this chapter shall be in accordance herewith.
   (C)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to appear to
pay the penalty for such violation, under this chapter within the prescribed
time, the Town Marshal shall prepare or cause to be prepared a proper affidavit
for the arrest of such violator. Procedures for arrest and court appearance
shall be in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq. Each arrest summons shall be
docketed in the County or Circuit Court of the county, in the name of the town
pursuant to law and the rules and regulations of said court. It shall be the
duty of the attorney representing the town or said attorney’s delegate (which
delegate may be the prosecuting attorney) to prosecute each violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   The County Clerk shall remit fines collected for violation of this
chapter into the General Fund of the town by transmittal to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer not less often than monthly. The County Clerk shall distribute costs
in accordance with the statutory schedules.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. III-A-1-d(7), passed 12-3-1984)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees, costs of collection and any
reasonable expenses incurred by the town in connection with removing and
storage of said vehicle.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 8, § 4) (Ord. III-A-1-d(7), passed 12-3-1984)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation of golf carts
   
73.03   Operator requirements; financial responsibility
   
73.04   Time and place of operation
   
73.05   Occupants
   
73.06   Traffic rules
   
73.07   Slow-moving vehicle sign
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle originally designed for operation on a golf course and
powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 1) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited unless
the golf cart is operated, insured and equipped in full compliance with this
subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 2) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS; FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s license
may operate a golf cart.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 3)
   (B)   The operator or owner of a golf cart must show financial
responsibility when operating a golf cart. Written proof of financial
responsibility must be available on the golf cart or carried by the operator at
all times.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 4)
(Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 TIME AND PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on any town streets between one-half
hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, unless the golf cart is
equipped with two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the
golf cart), and two operating tail lights with brake lights and turn signals
(one on each side of the rear of the golf cart), which are visible from a
distance of 500 feet.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 5)
   (B)   Golf carts may be operated on town streets, alleys and parking lots.
Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 6)
(Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart;
provided, no more than four persons shall occupy any cart. The operator and all
occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no parts of the bodies of the
operator or any occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the golf cart
while the golf cart is being operated.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 7) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.06 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 8) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.07 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a “slow-moving
vehicle” sign of the same type required under state law.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 9) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.07 of this chapter shall constitute a Class A infraction and a violation of
this code of ordinances. An owner, lessee or operator may be cited to appear in
a court of competent jurisdiction by issuance of a state uniform traffic
ticket. Upon finding by such court than an owner, lessee or operator of a golf
cart has violated any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.07 of this chapter, such person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$100, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection for each
offense, along with court costs.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 9, § 10) (Ord. 2009-6-8A, passed 6-8-2009)
CHAPTER 74: PLAYGROUND ALLEY
Section
   
74.01   Naming
   
74.02   One-way traffic
   
74.03   No parking
   
74.04   Registration; authorization
   
74.05   Moving or towing vehicle
   
74.06   Violation
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 NAMING.
   The unnamed alley which is located immediately east of and parallel to
Harrison Street, which runs in a north and south direction from School Street,
extended to South Alley shall henceforth and hereafter be known as “Playground
Alley”.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -)
§ 74.02 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   One-way traffic signs shall be erected at the intersection of School Street
extended and along Playground Alley, and that all motorists shall be obligated
to operate their motor vehicles, in compliance with same, viz: one-way traffic
north bound, between School Street extended and South Alley for the entire
length of Playground Alley.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -) Penalty, see
§
74.99
§ 74.03 NO PARKING.
   No parking signs shall be erected and no parking shall be allowed and all
motorists shall be obligated to operate their motor vehicles in such a manner
so as not to violate same, viz: on both sides of Playground Alley, between
School Street extended and South Alley.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -) Penalty, see
§
74.99
§ 74.04 REGISTRATION; AUTHORIZATION.
   The current motor vehicle registration of any offending vehicle shall
constitute prima facie proof that such person was in control of the motor
vehicle at the time of such violation; however, said registered owner shall
have the right to rebut said presumption by proving that said use at the time
and place was unauthorized by him or her.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -)
§ 74.05 MOVING OR TOWING VEHICLE.
   The town shall have the right to direct the Town Marshal or any other agents
to remove and tow away, or have removed or towed away, by any commercial towing
service, any motor vehicle illegally parked upon or along either side of
Playground Alley. Any vehicles so towed away for illegal parking shall be
stored in a safe place and restored to the owner or operator of same upon
payment of a commercial towing service bill and the presentation or proper
proof of ownership.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -)
§ 74.06 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the aforesaid
provisions of this chapter or failing to obey any of the signs described above
erected pursuant to same or to otherwise violate any of the portions hereof
shall be treated in accordance with this traffic code previously enacted by the
Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 6)
   (B)   The second admission or judgment of a violation of this chapter within
a calendar year shall be subject to double the penalty set forth above as the
total civil penalty. Any third admission or judgment of a violation of the same
ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be subject to triple
the penalty set forth above as the total civil penalty.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 7)
(Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or operator of a vehicle violating the provisions of §
74.02 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
74.03 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 3)
(Ord. III-A-1-a(3), passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop and yield intersections
      
II.   Weight and length limits
      
III.   One- and two-way streets
      
IV.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Street/Location Intersection Stop/Yield Penalty 2013 Code Section/
                                                Ord. No.
Street/     Intersection Stop/  Penalty                                                                       2013 Code Section/
Location                 Yield                                                                                Ord. No.
            Intersection
            of any alley
            with a town  Stop
            street shall
            be erected a
            stop sign
            Intersection
            of Nature    No     Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
            Trail and    outlet costs of collection                                                           6
            East Lake
            Street
            Southwest
            corner of
            the
            intersection
            of Amish            Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
            Alley and    Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
            the alley
            parallel and
            east of
            North Main
            Street
Babcock
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Ohio Street                     costs of collection                                                           10
from the
south
Babcock
Street,
approaching
Michigan                 Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Street from                     costs of collection                                                           10
both the
north and
south
Babcock
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Indiana                         costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the north
            Lehman
            Avenue
            (provided an
Cherokee    agreement    Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Drive       has been            costs of collection                                                           10
            reached with
            the private
            owner)
East Lake   Pleasant
Street      Avenue (stop Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    street)             costs of collection                                                           8
street)
Golden
Drive
South,
approaching                     Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Harrison                 Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
both the
east and
west
Harrison
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
North                           costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the south
Harrison
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
School                          costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the north
Harrison
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Pine Street                     costs of collection                                                           10
from the
south
Harrison
Street,
approaching                     Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Golden                   Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
Drive South
from the
south
Harrison
Street,
from Golden
Acres                           Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Subdivision              Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
approaching
North
Street from
the north
Hawpatch    Lehman       Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Drive       Avenue              costs of collection                                                           10
Hawpatch
Street,
approaching
Lake Street Intersection
from the    of Lake
north and   Street,      Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
traffic on  Hawpatch            costs of collection                                                           5
Main Street Street and
approaching Main Street
Lake Street
from the
south
Hillcrest   Pleasant     Stop                                                                                 Ord. 2017-9-25(B),
Court       Avenue                                                                                            passed 9-25-2017
Indiana
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Morrow                          costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the east
Industrial  Lehman       Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Avenue      Avenue              costs of collection                                                           10
Industrial
Drive West,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
West Lake                       costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the north
Lake
Street,                  4-way  Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
approaching              stop   costs of collection                                                           5
Hawpatch
Street
Main Street Lehman              Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    Street (stop Stop   costs of collection                                                           8
street)     street)
Main        Intersection
Street,     of Lake
from both   Street,      4-way  Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
the east    Hawpatch     stop   costs of collection                                                           5
and west    Street and
            Main Street
Mill
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Harrison                        costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the west
Nature      East Lake    Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Trail       Street              costs of collection                                                           10
North                           Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Golden      Jay Street   Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
Drive
North       Country
Street      Squire Drive Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    (stop               costs of collection                                                           7
street)     street)
North       Topeka Trace
Street      Drive (stop  Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    street)             costs of collection                                                           7
street)
North       Pleasant                                                                                          Ord. 2015-10-26(a),
Street,     Drive        Stop                                                                                 passed 10-26-2015
eastbound
Pine
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Morrow                          costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the east
Pleasant
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
North                           costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the south
Voder
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
North                           costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the south
West Lake   Hawpatch
Street      Street (stop Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    street)             costs of collection                                                           8
street)
Zook Street Ohio Street         Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
(through    (stop        Stop   costs of collection                                                           9
street)     street)
Zook
Street,
approaching
Indiana                  Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Street from                     costs of collection                                                           10
both the
north and
south
Zook
Street,
approaching                     Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Pine Street              Stop   costs of collection                                                           10
from both
the north
and south
Zook
Street,
approaching              Stop   Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Michigan                        costs of collection                                                           10
Street from
the north
Zook
Street,     Crossfire                                                                                         Ord. 2015-11-23(b),
both north  Drive        Stop                                                                                 passed 11-23-2015
and south
directions
 
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT AND LENGTH LIMITS.
   (A)   The use of a tractor-mobile home rig, having a combined overall length
in excess of 60 feet, within the corporate limits of the town shall be limited
to the following streets: C.R. 700 W; Hawpatch Street; Main Street; Lake
Street; Michigan Street; and North Street; provided, however, that, other
streets in said town may be used if it is necessary to use the same to install
a mobile home in said town for residential purposes, and written permission of
the Town Marshal is first obtained.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 22)
   (B)   In the town, there shall be no truck plated 13,000 pounds or more
permitted on the first alley south of Lake Street, beginning at a point 90 feet
west of South Harrison Street and continuing to the elementary school.
(Ord. 2017-9-25(C), passed 9-25-2017)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE- AND TWO-WAY STREETS.
 
Street    Location Way  Penalty                                                                       2013 Code Section/
                                                                                                      Ord. No.
          West
          from
Amish     Harrison One- Class C infraction; not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Alley     Street   way  costs of collection                                                           15
          to Main
          Street
          North
          from
Harrison  School   One- Class B infraction; not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Street    Street   way  costs of collection                                                           14
          to Mill
          Street
          South of
          Mill
          Street
          and
          School                                                                                      Ord. 2014-7-28,
Harrison  Street   Two-                                                                              passed 7-28-2014;
Street    from     way                                                                                Ord. 2014-11-24-B,
          South                                                                                       passed 11-24-2014
          Main
          Street
          to the
          school
          East
          from
Merchants North    One-                                                                               Ord. 2023-07-10,
Alley     Harrison way                                                                               passed 7-24-2023
          Street
          to Yoder
          Street
          East
          from
School    Main     One- Class B infraction; not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney’s fees and Title IV, Ch. 1, §
Street    Street   way  costs of collection                                                           14
          to
          Harrison
          Street
 
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed zones are hereby established, and shall be marked with
appropriate signs. No motorist shall drive faster than is permitted by this
schedule in the following zones.
   (A)   “Speed Zone Ahead” signs shall be erected approaching the corporate
limits on: East Lake Street; West Lake Street; Hawpatch Street, approaching
north corporate limits; and Main Street, approaching the south corporate
limits.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by this schedule, or by subsequent
ordinance, the speed limit on all streets, roads and highway within the
corporate limits of the town shall be 30 mph. Signs indicating this 30 mph
speed limit shall be erected at: the intersection of West Lake Street and the
Redman Drive; at the intersection of East Lake Street and the east property
limits of Topeka Livestock Auction, Inc. at the intersection of the north
corporate limits and Hawpatch; and at the intersection of the south corporate
limits and Main Street. Any person who violates the provisions of this division
(B) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
   (C)   During school hours, signs shall be erected at Mill Street,
approaching from the north on Main Street, and at Pine Street, approaching from
the south on Main Street, which signs shall indicate “School Zone” and “20 mph
Speed Zone”. Any person who violates the provisions of this division (C)
commits a Class B infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
   (D)   The speed zone on West Lake Street, between the west corporate limits
and Redman Drive, and on East Lake Street, between the east corporate limits
and the east property line of Topeka Livestock Auction, Inc., is hereby
established at 40 mph, and signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected
at the west corporation limit on West Lake Street and at the east corporation
limits on East Lake Street. Any person who violates the provisions of this
division (D) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and
costs of collection.
   (E)   The speed zone on Pleasant Drive is hereby reduced to 20 mph, and
signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected in appropriate and lawful
positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this division (E)
commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
   (F)   The entire length of Nature Trail shall be posted a 25 mph speed
limit. Any person who violates the provisions of this division (F) commits a
Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
   (G)   The speed limit on Hawpatch Drive and Lehman Avenue shall be 35 mph.
Any person who violates the provisions of this division (G) commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
   (H)   The speed limit on School Street, from South Main Street to Harrison
Street, shall be posted a 20 mph speed limit. Any person who violates the
provisions of this division (H) commits a Class B infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all
attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
   (I)   In the town, the speed limit for North Street, in both directions from
its intersection with North Main Street to its intersection with Pleasant
Avenue, shall be posted 20 mph. Any person who violates the provisions of this
division (I) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and
costs of collection.
   (J)   In the town, the speed limit for Harrison Street, in both directions
from School Street to North Street shall be posted a 20 mph school zone. Any
person who violates the provisions of this division (J) commits a Class B
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $75, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
   (K)   In the town, the speed limit for the area known as “Golden Acres”,
which includes North Golden Drive, South Golden Drive, Jay Street, Todd Street
and Meadow Lane, shall have a speed limit established at 20 mph. Any person who
violates the provisions of this division (K) commits a Class C infraction and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus
any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
   (L)   In the town, the speed limit for Crossfire Drive shall be posted 20
mph.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. 2015-11-23(C), passed 11-23-2015)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted and prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked on Lake Street or on Main Street within the
town, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except for that part of
Lake Street between Harrison Street and Pleasant Avenue, upon which parking
shall be allowed on an alternate basis, on the north side on even numbered
calendar days and on the south side on odd numbered calendar days of said
street, on alternate days. This provision is intended to promote the public
necessity of street sweeping for Lake Street and Main Street within the town.
Any person violating the provisions of this division (A) commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4, § 2E)
   (B)   “No Parking Here to Corner” signs shall be erected in accordance with
this traffic code. Any person who violates the provisions of this division (B)
commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 11)
   (C)   (1)   “No Parking this Side of Street” signs shall be erected in the
following areas:
         (a)   On the east side of Main Street, between School Street and Mill
Street;
         (b)   On the west side of Hawpatch Street, from Amish Alley to Roy
Street;
         (c)   On the west side of Main Street, from Pine Street to Indiana
Street;
         (d)   On both sides of Pleasant Drive, from Amish Alley to Lake
Street;
         (e)   On the west side of South Main Street, beginning at the south
end of the driveway at 128 South Main Street and continuing to the north side
of School Street;
         (f)   On the west side of north Harrison Street, beginning from the
south at East Lake Street and continuing to the north of East North Street;
         (g)   On the south side of East Mill Street, beginning from the east
at South Main Street and continuing to the west at South Harrison Street;
         (h)   On the east side of North Babcock Street, beginning at West Lake
Street and continuing to the north, ending at Amish Alley; and
         (i)   On the north and south sides of Crossfire Drive, between Zook
Street and South Main Street.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (C) commits
a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 12)
   (D)   In the town, on the north side of North Street from North Main Street
east to the alley shall be posted as a no parking zone. The town is hereby
authorized and directed to post signs, paint signs on the pavement, or
otherwise notify vehicle operators of the existence of this division (D). Said
employees are further directed to effectuate the provisions of this division
(D) as soon as same can be done. Any person who violates the provisions of this
division (D) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and
costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 13)
   (E)   In the town, there shall be no parking on the west side of South
Harrison Street from the intersection with Mill Street north to the alley
running east and west.
   (F)   In the town, there shall be no parking on the north and south sides of
Crossfire Drive, between Zook Street and South Main Street.
   (G)   In the town, there shall be no parking from 12:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.
on: the north and south sides of East Lake Street, from its intersection with
Main Street to the town limits; the east and west sides of South Main Street,
from its intersection with Lake Street to the town limits; and the east side of
Main Street from its intersection with Lake Street to Roy Street.
   (H)    In the town, on North Street, on the south side, from Merchants
Alley, going west to North Main Street, the first three parking spots shall be
designated as handicapped spots, and the remaining space adjoining North Street
shall be designated as no parking.
   (I)   The first three parking spots on the south side of North Street east
of the intersection with North Main shall become loading zone, no parking.
   (J)   There shall be no parking on either side of Todd Street, from Jay to
the cul de sac.
(Ord. 2014-7-28, passed 7-28-2014; Ord. 2015-10-26(b), passed 10-26-2015; Ord.
2016-8-8, passed 8-8-2016; Ord. 2018-10-22(A), passed 10-22-2018; Ord. 2020-8,
passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 2020-10A, passed 11-23-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   TOWN PARKS; RECREATION
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Horses
   
90.02   Large animals pulling carts and the like
   
90.03   4-H animal permits
   
90.04   Dogs
Pet Waste
   
90.15   Purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Disposal requirement; removal equipment
   
90.18   Exemptions
   
90.19   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 HORSES.
   (A)   (1)   No horses or other large animals shall be permitted within
portions of the town, which have previously been subdivided into lots that do
not contain at least two acres of designated pasture.
      (2)   The pasture necessary to maintain a horse in the town shall be two
acres’ minimum of designated pasture for no more than two horses. For each
additional horse, there will need to be an additional one acre of designated
pasture. Designated pasture shall not include lawns, other areas adjacent to
the living quarters or structures. Pasture areas and horses shall be maintained
so that any smells shall not leave the site and effluent shall be kept clean
from said site and not permitted to leave said site during rainstorms or other
times, nor be stored anywhere near or upon the pasture lines. It is intended
that the responsible homeowner shall maintain said horse and pasture in a way
that is not inconsistent with town living, nor creating a hazard or nuisance
for any neighbor.
   (B)   (1)   An individual shall file with the town a petition in writing
requesting that he or she be permitted horses and/or large animals, pursuant to
division (A) above.
      (2)   Said written request shall include a drawing, which shall clearly
delineate the designated pasture area, which shall be at least two acres and
comply fully with all requirements of this division (B), including any area for
which waste shall be accumulated and any shelters.
      (3)   Following the filing of said petition and drawing, the Town Manager
shall inspect said property to ascertain compliance with division (A) above,
specifically ascertaining the existence of a designated pasture, and shall
report to the Town Council his or her findings and recommendations.
      (4)   Following the report to the Town Council, the Town Council shall
make a determination, said determination shall be reduced to writing, and shall
be forwarded to the county’s Plan Commission for use at the Topeka-Wolcottville
BZA hearing. The letter issued by the Town Board as concerns said pasture shall
be a recommendation to said BZA and reference division (A)’s requirements.
(Ord. 2018.5.14(B), passed 5-14-2018; Ord. 2018-6-11(C), passed 6-11-2018)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 LARGE ANIMALS PULLING CARTS AND THE LIKE.
   The Town Council requests that the County Commission and Council require,
through law, the installation and use of “horse diapers” on all animal-drawn
devices that are intended and used for road and street purposes.
(Ord. 2015-9-28(B), passed 9-28-2015)
§ 90.03 4-H ANIMAL PERMITS.
   (A)   An animal permit is required for a child to house and care for any 4-
H animal within the town limits that is otherwise prohibited pursuant to the
applicable town ordinance (horse, calf, swine, goat and sheep).
   (B)   (1)   In order to apply for a 4-H animal permit, an interested party
must request a hearing before the Town Council.
      (2)   In making a determination, the Council will take into account the
following factors which must be provided by the party seeking the 4-H animal
permit:
         (a)   Size of the lot in which the animal will be kept or otherwise
cared for;
         (b)   Type of shelter or accommodations necessary for housing said
animal;
         (c)   Type of animal, including:
            1.   Size;
            2.   Characteristics; and
            3.   Temperament.
         (d)   Child’s past experience or skill in raising or caring for said
animals; and
         (e)   The town will notify all adjacent neighbors for input.
   (C)   The permit must be renewed annually if the child wishes to continue
participation in 4-H activities with said animal; there is no fee for the
permit or renewal.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 20) (Ord. 2013-9-9(A), passed - -2013)
§ 90.04 DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow any dog owned by him or
her to stray beyond said owner’s premises unless said dog is on a leash or is
under the reasonable control of some person, such dog is hereby declared a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Any dog running at large upon the streets or alleys or public places
in the town, unless said dog is on a leash or under the reasonable control of
some person, such dog is subject to being killed without notice by the Town
Marshal or by a duly appointed employee of said town.
(Title V, Ch. 6) (Ord. III-C-1-a(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
PET WASTE
§ 90.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for the proper
disposal of pet solid waste in the town, so as to protect public health, safety
and welfare, and to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
(Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   IMMEDIATE. The pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
   OWNER/KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any
pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association
or political subdivision of the state subject to municipal jurisdiction.
   PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal) kept
for amusement or companionship, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats or
pet pigs.
   PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
   PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
   REMOVAL EQUIPMENT. Any tool, implement or other device carried for the
purpose of picking up and contain pet waste.
(Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018)
§ 90.17 DISPOSAL REQUIREMENT; REMOVAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly
dispose of their pets’ solid waste deposited on any property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by that person, absent the owner’s consent.
   (B)   All pet owners and keepers are required to possess means of removal of
their pets’ solid pet waste at all times while present with said pet on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by that person, absent the
owner’s consent.
(Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability assistance
service animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while
such animal is being used for that purpose. This exemption does not apply to
therapy animals and/or emotional support animals.
   (B)   On-duty law enforcement officers operating with K-9 animals shall also
be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while such personnel and
animal are engaged in law enforcement duty.
(Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018)
§ 90.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.01 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction for each day of said
violation and shall be assessed $100 for each such day, as well as attorney’s
fees and costs incurred by the town as a result of said violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
90.04 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(Title V, Ch. 6)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.19 of this chapter commits a Class D infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $25, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   Any subsequent violation thereafter within a calendar year shall be
subject to double the penalty set forth above as the total civil penalty, plus
any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(Ord. III-C-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. 2018-02-26(B), passed 2-26-2018; Ord.
2018.5.14(B), passed 5-14-2018)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Sound disturbances
   
91.02   Noise emitting from vehicles
   
91.03   Manufacturing, storing certain materials
   
91.04   Grass clippings and yard waste
   
91.05   Mailbox placement
   
91.06   Debris storage
   
91.07   Obstruction of movement
Public Nuisance Abatement
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Initial action and notice
   
91.22   Service of notice
   
91.23   Hearing
   
91.24   Judicial review
   
91.25   Enforcement of order
   
91.26   Costs of removal
   
91.27   Notice not required
   
91.28   Transfer of property
   
91.29   Conflict of law; affect
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SOUND DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument or
any other type of sound service in a motor vehicle or upon any public road,
street, highway or private property in the town in a manner or at a volume as
to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. An exception is made
for organized events which have received a valid permit from the town as shall
be issued by the appropriate town officer on a form designated by and for such
purposes as the said official may approve.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 1)
   (B)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument or
any other type of sound service in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or other persons or at a
volume which is plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the room
or motor vehicle in which such device or instrument is played and who are
voluntary listeners thereto.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 2)
   (C)   No person shall permit his or her dog or other animals to bark or emit
noise over an extended period of time so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of other persons.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 3)
   (D)   Exceptions: public safety vehicles and their equipment; and use of any
public address system at public events as approved and sanctioned by the Town
Council.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 6)
(Ord. III-B-1-a(4), passed 6-13-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NOISE EMITTING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be illegal and unlawful for any motor vehicle or horse-drawn
vehicle, other than a vehicle specifically designed so as to make a public
statement by permit issued by the town, or during a parade or other celebratory
festival as authorized by the Town Council, to cause to emit a noise through an
audio component and/or instrumentality located within or upon said automobile
or horse-drawn vehicle which sound is audible from any house or structure or
within ten feet of any such house or structure.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 5, § 1) (Ord. III-B-1-a(5), passed 8-12-1996)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 MANUFACTURING, STORING CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)   The following manufacture or storage activity in other than a building
within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared a nuisance in any
court of record and any such activity is now prohibited within the corporate
limits: atomic plants; arsenals; cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris
manufacture and storage; distillation of bones, fertilizer and plant food
manufacture and storage; lime slag, stone, cinder or coal crushing or
pulverizing, storage or operation; and agricultural lime storage or other type
of lime storage; or the storage of other such objects and items which promote
dust and odor outside the land on which they are stored.
(2013 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (B)   In order not to be considered a nuisance, said storage buildings may
be inspected by all governing bodies including, but not limited to, the state’s
Fire Marshal, the county’s Board of Health and the town’s Plan Commission.
(2013 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 2)
(Ord. IV-E-1-a(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 GRASS CLIPPINGS AND YARD WASTE.
   (A)   No citizen may place or in any way allow his or her grass clippings
and/or other yard waste or debris to accumulate on any street in the town. The
first violation of this section will be handled via the issuance of a warning.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 15, § 1)
   (B)   The placement of leaves roadside for town pick-up or removal shall not
be subject to this section; provided that, said placement shall not be over or
adjacent to a manhole or drainage structure.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 15, § 2)
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or any duly qualified and acting law
enforcement officer shall find that any person has committed any action which
is declared unlawful by the provisions of this section, such Marshal or officer
may give written notice to such person of such violation.
         (a)   All such notices shall be serially numbered and shall contain
the following information:
            1.   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
            2.   The location of the violation;
            3.   The signature of the Marshal or officer;
            4.   The date of the violation; and
            5.   The amount of penalty prescribed by §
91.99 of this chapter.
         (b)   The notice shall also contain the following statement: “Within
72 hours from the time of violation as shown on this notice of violation, bring
this notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, Topeka, Indiana, 46571,
or mail fine to such address within 72 hours from the time of violation, or
warrant will be issued for arrest which may result in extra costs.”
         (c)   All such written notices shall be executed by the Town Marshal
or officer in triplicate. One copy shall be served upon the violator as herein
provided, one copy shall be filed in the office of the Town Marshal and one
copy with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Any such person receiving written notice of a violation pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall, within 72 hours from the date of the
violation, appear at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, Topeka, Indiana,
46571, and pay the prescribed penalty by depositing such amount along with the
notice of violation with the officer on duty or in the place provided and
marked for such purpose, or such person within such time may mail such fine
with the written notice to the Clerk- Treasurer’s office. In the event that
said 72-hour period shall expire on Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such
violator shall have up to 4:00 p.m. on the next day following that the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office is open. The penalties which shall be payable in compromise
of the violations of this section shall be in accordance herewith.
      (3)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to appear to
pay the penalty for such violation, under this section within the prescribed
time, the Town Marshal shall prepare or cause to be prepared, a proper
affidavit for the arrest of such violator. Each arrest summons shall be
docketed in the County or Circuit Court in the name of the town pursuant to law
and the rules and regulations of said court. The matter shall be prosecuted by
the Town Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney. Any party found to have
violated this section shall pay all court costs and attorney’s fees incurred in
the enforcement of this section against such party.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 15, § 4)
(Ord. 2007-9-10(a), passed 9-9-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 MAILBOX PLACEMENT.
   (A)   The placement of all mailboxes in the town is to be approved by the
town’s Street Department.
   (B)   Installation of a mailbox can commence only after a permit is obtained
from the town’s Street Department.
   (C)   All mailboxes installed in the town are done so at the risk of the
owner.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 16) (Ord. II-A-3-b, passed 8-23-1993)
§ 91.06 DEBRIS STORAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED. Any item found outdoors and not in its place of normal use.
      DEBRIS. Any household appliances, furniture or any other items ordinarily
intended for use indoors, which are found out of doors, and which are not in
the process of being manufactured or repaired; and, further, shall apply to any
vehicle parts not in the process of being repaired.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
store or maintain any junked, wrecked or abandoned debris on public or private
property within the corporate limits of the town, where the same is not kept in
a garage or other enclosure as not to be exposed to public view, except as
hereinafter set forth in divisions (C) and (D) below.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 2)
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to any person,
firm or corporation lawfully engaged in the manufacture, sale or repair of
those items referred to in division (A) above in which the storage of said
items is incident to the carrying on of said business.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 3)
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to any person,
firm or corporation engaged in the business of operating a junk or storage
yard.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 4)
   (E)   The Town Marshal or any duly authorized member of the Town Council or
its agent is hereby authorized to issue a written demand to the owner,
occupant, agent or person in possession of the premises wherein any of the
above nuisances are maintained in violation of this section, notifying such
person, firm or corporation to remove and abate such nuisance from the premises
within ten days from the receipt of such notice, and in the event that the
identity of such owner, occupant, agent or person in possession is unknown,
then such notice shall be attached in duplicate to any of said items which
shall constitute a nuisance. Upon the failure or refusal of any person to
remove such nuisance within the time specified, the town, through any of its
agents, may abate said nuisance and shall have the power to remove any such
item of debris and impound the same at the owner’s expense, and every person
who shall oppose or resist the execution of said Town Council in the premises
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 5)
(Ord. III-F-1-a(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 OBSTRUCTION OF MOVEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall stand, lie, lounge or sit (either directly or on a
chair, box or other object) on any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, any
public right-of-way or any driveway open to the public, or in any doorway,
entranceway or passageway affording entrance or exit by the public into or from
any building, be such building or any establishment therein open for business
or not, nor shall any person congregate with others in such places so as to
physically obstruct by his or her actions or behavior, presence or location,
unimpeded passage by others.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (B)   No person shall sit, stand, lie or lounge upon, or hang upon or from
the exterior of any automobile, motorcycle, bus, truck, motor vehicle or
vehicular trailer while such vehicle is stopped or parked, in such a manner as
to physically obstruct by his or her actions or behavior, presence or
locations, unimpeded passage by others.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 2)
   (C)   The prohibition, above, against sitting on the sidewalk and curbs
shall not apply during or immediately prior to any public parade or other
public celebration at the site of such parade or other public celebration at
the site of such parade or such celebration for which parade or celebration the
proper governmental agency has granted permission.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 3)
   (D)   The prohibitions contained hereinabove shall not apply to personnel of
business establishments who, during a sidewalk sale for which a proper permit
has been granted by the town, or for which permission has been granted by
proper governmental agency for the town, may sit on chairs or benches or the
sidewalk adjacent to such establishments during said sale.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 4)
   (E)   The provisions of this section, or particular prohibitions hereof,
generally or in certain areas only, may be suspended, when, in connection with
carnivals, public activities and other public events, such suspension is
warranted in the opinion and discretion of the Council.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 5)
   (F)   Each and every police officer of the town is authorized to enforce the
prohibitions of this section by issuing a traffic summons to any offender seen
by such officer to be in violation of this section.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 7)
(Ord. III-B-1-a(3), passed 6-6-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Council shall designate a town or county department, or
other designee as being responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter
within the town and grant to such all powers reasonable and necessary for the
performance of its responsibilities under this subchapter.
   ENFORCEMENT BOARD. A board established to administer hearings regarding
nuisance violations.
   JUNK VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle or non-motor vehicle that is either
disassembled, non- operative, wrecked or does not bear a currently valid
license plate, or would be considered “junk” by a reasonable person, and is not
in a garage or other building, but is kept in open view upon public or private
property. A person may rebut a determination by the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer (“Enforcement Officer”) that a car, bus, semi-truck, recreational
vehicle or motorcycle is a JUNK VEHICLE by driving such a vehicle, under the
vehicle’s own power, to the office of the Enforcement Officer with valid tags
and proof of registration and insurance within ten days of receiving notice of
non- compliance with this subchapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but shall not be limited to, cars, buses, semi-
trucks, golf carts, all- terrain vehicles, motorized recreational vehicles and
motorcycles. Agricultural machinery located on land properly zoned and owned by
persons actively engaged in farming shall be exempt from this subchapter.
   NON-MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but shall not be limited to, semi-trailers,
boats, non- motorized recreational vehicles and trailers of any kind.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES. Defined in accordance with I.C. 36-8-2-4 and may include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Grass and weeds over 12 inches high, but not including small trees
and bushes;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires and the
like, but not stock or inventory used in conducting agricultural activities in
a properly zoned area;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (6)   Vehicle parts and scrap metal (including, but not limited to, those
defined at I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.);
      (7)   Structures defaced with paint or graffiti;
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, human excrement,
which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon any public or private
property;
      (9)   The construction of, or the placement of any structure or materials
within the drainage way of any right-of-way that will prevent the natural flow
of water and cause it to collect and pool upon any private or public property;
      (10)   Any dead domestic or wild animal;
      (11)   Any real or personal property that is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (12)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a
health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (13)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds or other matter obstructing public ways or
causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
      (14)   The unauthorized placement of fences, signs, shrubbery or barriers
within road rights-of- way;
      (15)   Junk vehicles, as defined by this subchapter, due to the danger to
public health from vermin and insects that inhabit such vehicles, and the
danger to safety of children attracted by such vehicles, except in lawfully
operated junkyards that have been properly zoned and licensed; and
      (16)   Industrial machinery, unless located on land that is properly
zoned for such use and owned by persons actively engaged in industry.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 1) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.21 INITIAL ACTION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Department determines that a public nuisance exists, the
Department may:
      (1)   Issue an order to the owner of the property housing the nuisance
requiring action to be taken to remove the public nuisance and bring the
property into compliance. Said order must be given in accordance with §
91.22 of this chapter; and
      (2)   The order must contain:
         (a)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
         (b)   The address or the tax parcel number of the property that is the
subject of the order;
         (c)   The action the order requires;
         (d)   The period of time of at least ten days in which the action is
required to be accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the
order is given;
         (e)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
Department if this order is not complied with;
         (f)   A statement indicating the obligation created by this subchapter
relating notification of subsequent interest holders and enforcement authority;
and
         (g)   The name, address and telephone number of the Department.
   (B)   In addition to an order, the Department may, at the sole discretion of
the Department, also issue a citation to the owner of the property housing the
nuisance for each violation.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 2) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.22 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Methods of service.
      (1)   Citations, warnings, orders, notice of continued hearings, notice
of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of claims for payment
(the “documentation”) must be given by either:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the documentation by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the documentation at the property or usual
place of residence of the person to be notified; or
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the documentation at the property or usual
place of residence of the person to be notified.
      (2)   When service is made by any of the means described, the person
making service must make an affidavit stating that he or she has made the
service, the manner in which service was made, to whom the documentation was
issued, the nature of the documentation and the date of service. The affidavit
must be placed on file with the Department.
   (B)   Service not obtained. If, after a reasonable effort, service is not
obtained by means described above, service may be made by publishing a notice
of the documentation in the applicable public newspaper in the county where the
property housing the nuisance is located. Publication may be made on
consecutive days. If service of the documentation is made by publication, the
publication must include the information required by §
91.21 of this chapter and must also include a statement indicating generally
what action is required by the order and that the exact terms of the order may
be obtained from the Department.
   (C)   Effective date. The date when the documentation is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the documentation is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of residence, notice is considered given on the day
when the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of residence.
      (2)   If the documentation is mailed, notice is considered given on the
date shown on the return receipt or, if no date is shown, on the date when the
return receipt is received by the Department.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 3) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.23 HEARING.
   (A)   If a person fails to comply with an order by the deadline established
in the order, or a person has been issued a citation by the Department, a
hearing must be held no earlier than ten days after notice of the order or
citation is given. The hearing shall be conducted by the Enforcement Board.
   (B)   The person to whom the order and/or citation was issued, any person
having a substantial property interest in the property that is the subject of
the order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear
in person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present
arguments.
   (C)   At the conclusion of any hearing where a continuance is not granted,
the Enforcement Board shall make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm, rescind or modify the order; and
      (2)   Affirm, rescind and/or suspend the citation penalties for a period
of time while an individual is taking action as instructed by the order.
   (D)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the Enforcement
Board at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request. However,
neither the Department, nor the Enforcement Board, is required to give any
person notice of finding and action.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 4) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.24 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   An action taken under §
91.23 of this chapter is subject to review by the Circuit or Superior Court of
the county where the property is located, on the request of:
      (1)   Any person who has a substantial property interest in the property
that is the subject of the public nuisance order; or
      (2)   Any person to whom the order was issued.
   (B)   A person requesting judicial review under this section must file a
verified complaint including the findings and the action taken by the
Enforcement Board. The complaint must be filed within ten days of the
Enforcement Board’s official action.
   (C)   An appeal under this section is an action de novo. The court may
affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the Enforcement Board.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 5) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.25 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   (A)   Removal of nuisances other than junk vehicles; action to bring
compliance. The Department may take action so as to bring the property within
compliance by means of Department resources or by a private contractor based on
quotations received from a list of contractors approved to do such work by the
Department. Notices of work to be performed must be given to all persons with a
substantial interest in the property housing the nuisance at least ten days
prior to the performance of the work. This notice must include a statement that
an amount representing a reasonable estimate of cost incurred by the Department
in processing the matter and performing the work, if not paid, will be recorded
as a lien against all persons having a fee interest or life estate interest in
the property. If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an
order that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement
that the Department intends to perform work by publication.
   (B)   Removal of junk vehicles.
      (1)   Action to bring compliance. The Department may remove junk vehicles
so as to bring the property within compliance by means of Department resources
or by a private contractor based on quotations received from a list of
contractors approved to do such work by the Department. Notices of work to be
performed must be given to all persons with a substantial interest in the
property housing the nuisance and the owner of the junk vehicle, if known, at
least ten days prior to the performance of the work. This notice must include a
statement that an amount representing a reasonable estimate of cost incurred by
the Department in processing the matter and performing the work, if not paid,
will be recorded as a lien against all persons having a fee interest or life
estate interest in the property. If action is being taken under this section on
the basis of an order that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve
the statement that the Department intends to perform work by publication.
      (2)   Procedure for removal of junk vehicles.
         (a)   The Enforcement Officer shall cause the vehicle to be towed to a
storage area.
         (b)   Within 72 hours after removal of a junk vehicle to a storage
area, the Enforcement Officer shall forward to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
(“Bureau”) a vehicle report containing the make, model, identification number,
license plate number and any other description of the vehicle. The vehicle
report should contain a request that the Bureau advise the Enforcement Officer
of the name and most recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle.
         (c)   The Enforcement Officer shall then by first class mail notify
the property owner and, if known, the person who owns the vehicle, with a copy
to each person who holds alien on the vehicle that the vehicle has been towed
(the “notice of towing”). Said notice of towing should indicate that the
vehicle has been towed and impounded at a certain location and must be removed
within 30 days after the date of the mailing of the notice of towing and advise
that the vehicle will be disposed of after that time. The notice of towing
should also advise the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle that all
costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle are the person’s legal
responsibility.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 6) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.26 COSTS OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Costs for nuisances other than junk vehicles.
      (1)   When action required by an order is performed by the Department or
by a contractor acting under this subchapter, each person who holds a fee
interest or life estate interest in the cited property from the time when the
order requiring the work performed was issued to the time that the work was
completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
         (a)   The actual cost of the work performed by the Department and/or
the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor;
         (b)   The administrative cost to process an order that was performed
by the Department, including, but not limited to the following: cost to
determine persons with substantial property interest; cost of notices; cost to
secure bids; cost of hearings; Enforcement Officer wages; salaries of
employees; and any cost of paper, office supplies and office area;
         (c)   All legal fees incurred in the enforcement of this subchapter;
and
         (d)   All costs associated with the collection of the amount of the
penalties incurred under any citation.
      (2)   The Department shall issue the owner of the property a bill for the
work completed, penalties incurred, as well as notice that the owner is
entitled to a hearing on the amounts indicated.
      (3)   If, within 30 days after the notice required above, a person named
in the record files with the Clerk of the Court in the county where the
property is located a written petition objecting to the claim for payment and
requesting a hearing, the Clerk shall enter the cause on the docket of the
Circuit or Superior Court as a civil action and a hearing shall be held on the
question.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the court shall either sustain
the petition or enter a judgment against the persons named in the record for
the amounts recorded or for modified amounts. A judgment entered shall become a
lien on the property housing the nuisance or be enforceable as otherwise
provided by law.
      (5)   If no petition is filed, after 30 days from issuing the bill, the
Enforcement Officer may:
         (a)   Record documentation with the County Recorder that states the
name or names of the owner(s) of the property housing the nuisance, a
description of the property as shown on the records of the County Auditor and
the amount of the delinquent fees. The amount of the delinquent fees or
penalties, including any accrued interest, shall then constitute a lien on the
property housing the nuisance and such lien shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and shall be collected in the same manner as
delinquent taxes are collected; or
         (b)   Seek reimbursement as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Costs for removal of junk vehicles.
      (1)   When action to remove a junk vehicle required by an order is
performed by the Department or by a contractor acting under this subchapter,
each person who holds a fee interest or life estate interest in the cited
property from the time when the order requiring the work performed was issued
to the time that the work was completed, as well as the owner of the vehicle,
is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
         (a)   The actual cost of the work performed by the Department and/or
the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor to remove and store the
vehicle;
         (b)   The administrative cost to process an order that was performed
by the Department, including, but not limited to, the following: cost to
determine persons with substantial property interest; cost of notices; cost to
secure bids; cost of hearings; Enforcement Officer wages; salaries of
employees; and any cost of paper, office supplies and office area;
         (c)   All legal fees incurred in the enforcement of this subchapter;
and
         (d)   All costs associated with the collection of the amount of the
penalties incurred under any citation.
      (2)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the storage site within 30 days after the mailing of the
notice of towing and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle at that time,
the vehicle shall be released. The Enforcement Officer shall notify the Bureau
of all releases. Each release shall state the name, signature and address of
the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle or parts, a description of
the vehicle, the costs and the date of release.
      (3)   If the person who owns or holds a lien upon the vehicle does not
appear within 30 days after the mailing of the notice of towing, the
Enforcement Officer may sell the vehicle. If the Department estimates that the
vehicle has a value of less than $500, or if the vehicle is in such a condition
that the vehicle identification numbers or other means of identification are
not available to determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle,
the vehicle may be disposed of as the Department deems appropriate. Otherwise,
the vehicle may be sold to the highest bidder at a public sale. Notice of the
sale shall be given by publication in one newspaper one week before the sale.
      (4)   The proceeds from the sale of a junk vehicle shall be applied to
costs of removal, storage and administrative costs, legal fees incurred by the
Department and penalties. Any remaining proceeds shall be remitted to the
vehicle owner. If an outstanding balance exists after such sale, the Department
shall issue the owner of the property and the owner of the junk vehicle a bill
for the work completed, legal fees, penalties incurred, as well as notice that
the owner of the property and owner of the junk vehicle is entitled to a
hearing on the amounts indicated.
      (5)   If, within 30 days after the notice required above, a person named
in the record files with the Clerk of the Court in the county where the
property is located a written petition objecting to the claim for payment and
requesting a hearing, the Clerk shall enter the cause on the docket of the
Circuit or Superior Court as a civil action and a hearing shall be held on the
question.
      (6)   Issues that could have been determined under §
91.23 of this chapter may not be entertained at this hearing. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the court shall either sustain the petition or enter a judgment
against the persons named in the record for the amounts recorded or for
modified amounts. A judgment entered shall become a lien on the property
housing the nuisance or be enforceable as otherwise provided by law.
      (7)   If no petition is filed, after 30 days from issuing the bill, the
Enforcement Officer may:
         (a)   Record documentation with the County Recorder that states the
name or names of the owner(s) of the property housing the nuisance, a
description of the property as shown on the records of the County Auditor, and
the amount of the delinquent fees. The amount of the delinquent fees or
penalties, including any accrued interest, shall then constitute a lien on the
property housing the nuisance and such lien shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and shall be collected in the same manner as
delinquent taxes are collected; or
         (b)   Seek reimbursement from the property owner or vehicle owner as
otherwise provided by law.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 7) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.27 NOTICE NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings and notice of a
statement that public bids are to be let need not be given to a person holding
a property interest in an unabated public nuisance if:
      (1)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the person
is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the public nuisance is
located; or
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer has received neither written information,
nor actual notice, of the identity of the person who holds a property interest
in the public nuisance.
   (B)   A person who fails to record an instrument reflecting an interest in
property subject to an order is considered to consent to action taken under
this subchapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 8) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.28 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order relative to
a public nuisance and has not complied with that order:
   (A)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who takes
or agrees to take a substantial property interest in the cited property before
transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
   (B)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the cited property, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of the full name, address and telephone number of
the person taking a substantial property interest in the cited property; and
the legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to transfer the
substantial property interest is accomplished.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 9) (Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.29 CONFLICT OF LAW; AFFECT.
   (A)   (1)   No part of this subchapter shall be interpreted to conflict with
federal, state or local laws and all reasonable efforts should be made to
harmonize the same. Should any section or part thereof of this subchapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of this subchapter as a whole, or any portion
thereof other than that portion so declared to be invalid and, for this purpose
the provisions of this subchapter, are hereby declared to be severable.
      (2)   Provisions of prior ordinances that are in conflict with this
subchapter are hereby repealed.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 10)
   (B)   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this subchapter or any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 11)
(Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whosoever shall violate the terms and conditions of §
91.01 of this chapter shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   First offense: Class C infraction, fine of $50;
         (b)   Second offense: Class B infraction, fine of $75; and
         (c)   Third offense: Class A infraction, fine of $100.
      (2)   In addition to the applicable fine amount, individuals convicted
under §
91.01 of this chapter must pay any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 4)
      (3)   Upon conviction for a violation of §
91.01 of this chapter, the sound device used during the commission of the
offense shall be subject to seizure for payment of the judgment. In addition,
the town officer may seize the device used to violate any part of §
91.01 of this chapter as evidence for the court when the violation is
discovered.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 4, § 5)
   (C)   Any person violating §
91.02 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. A separate offense
and shall be deemed committed on each date during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. Upon conviction for a violation, the sound device used
during the commission of the offense shall be subject to seizure for payment of
the judgment. In addition, any town officer may seize the device used to
violate any part of §
91.02 of this chapter as evidence for the court when the violation is
discovered.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 5, § 2)
   (D)   (1)   It is hereby made the duty of any person, firm or corporation to
comply with the terms of §
91.03 of this chapter and any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
91.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall suffer the
penalties of §
91.03 of this chapter as hereinafter set out, to-wit: any violation of any
provisions of §
91.03 of this chapter shall constitute a Class B infraction and a fine to be
levied against such persons, firm or corporation in the amount of not less than
$75, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection for each day of
violation.
(2013 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 3)
      (2)   None of the provisions of §
91.03 of this chapter shall effect any pending cause of action or right of
action, either civil or penal.
(2013 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 4)
   (E)   Any violation of §
91.04 of this chapter within the same calendar year will be considered a Class
C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50 per violation, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 15, § 1)
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.06 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 8, § 6)
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.07 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 3, § 6)
   (H)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.21 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   The applicable fine amount for a first-time offense under §
91.21 of this chapter may be waived by the Department if said violation is
remedied within five days of notice thereof, waiver is not available for any
subsequent offense thereafter.
      (3)   Each nuisance shall constitute a separate violation and each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 14, § 2)
(Ord. IV-E-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-F-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-B-1-a
(4), passed 6-13-1984; Ord. III-B-1-a(3), passed 6-6-1988; Ord. III-B-1-a(5),
passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2007-8-27, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 2007-9-10(a), passed
9-9-2007)
CHAPTER 92: TOWN PARKS; RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Use of town parks
   
92.02   Park closings, parking and curfew
   
92.03   Alcoholic beverages in parks
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 USE OF TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby vest the authority in its Town Marshal
to, by letter, restrict the use of the town’s parks system by any person upon
that officer’s conclusion that the subject person has engaged in actions
detrimental to the parks system and/or such that would be classified as
vandalism, malicious destruction or other crime.
   (B)   The restriction which said Town Marshal shall place upon said person
shall be that said person shall not utilize the town park without prior written
consent of the Town Marshal or, if said person is a minor, said person must be
accompanied to the town park by a custodial parent or guardian.
   (C)   If any person shall feel aggrieved by any such action of the Town
Marshal, such person, and/or his or her parent and/or legal guardian if such
person is a minor, shall have an absolute right to petition the Town Council
for review of this matter and actions consistent therewith.
   (D)   This section and the rights and obligations therein bestowed shall be
in addition to any and all other ordinances, laws or resolutions affecting or
applying to any individual’s actions within said parks and any other such legal
consequences flowing from said actions.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 4) (Ord. III-B-1-c, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. III-B-1-a
(7), passed 10-25-2004)
§ 92.02 PARK CLOSINGS, PARKING AND CURFEW.
   (A)   The East Park in the town shall be closed to all persons, vehicles and
uses from 11:30 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. each day, except for duly authorized
personnel of the town. It is further directed that from November 1 to March 31
of each year, the park shall be closed to all persons, vehicles and uses from
8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. each day.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   By specific agreement with the Topeka Livestock Auction and Robert
Bale, its present owner, the parking lots of the Topeka Livestock Auction,
which adjoin the East Park and are utilized as parking for said parks after
auction hours, shall be subject to and controlled by all of the town ordinances
which affect the utilization of the town parks including the town curfew,
alcoholic beverage ordinance, park hours ordinance, noise ordinance, loitering
ordinance and the present amendment.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (C)   In both the West and East Lake Street Parks beginning May 1 of each
calendar year through October 1 of each calendar year, there shall be a curfew
for all individuals under the age of 18 without adult supervision. This curfew
shall be 11:00 p.m. unless the lights in said park are turned off earlier.
During the subject time frames, no individual under the age of 18 years shall
be in either town park, except when competing in an organized sporting event,
after sunset without adult supervision.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 3)
   (D)   The Town Marshal or any other duly authorized law enforcement officer
is authorized to issue a citation to any violator of this section at a time
specified to answer the charge in County Court. A copy of said citation shall
be given to the violator, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Marshal and the
Clerk of the County Court.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 4)
(Ord. III-B-1-a(2), passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 1996-6-24-D, passed 6-24-1996; Ord.
III-B-1-b, passed 2-8-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to possess or consume any intoxicating beverage
in any town park.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter or change any
intoxicating beverage in any town park.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 2)
   (C)   The term INTOXICATING BEVERAGE, as used in this section, shall be
construed to mean and include any liquid intended for human consumption
containing more than 1% of volume of alcohol.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 3)
   (D)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-6-1 et
seq. and I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq., as well as any and all other applicable
statutes with respect to the control and regulation of the use of alcoholic
beverages within the municipal corporations of the state.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 4)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or his or her deputies believes in
good faith that a person has violated this section, he or she may detain that
person for a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the allegation; and
         (b)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth; or the
person’s driver’s license, if in his or her possession; and allow the person to
execute a notice to appear.
      (2)   The Town Marshal or his or her Deputies may offer the violator an
opportunity to sign a notice to appear in County Court at a time specified to
answer the charge; a person charged with an ordinance violation shall give his
or her written promise to appear in court to answer the charge, and if, after
being informed of his or her duty to promise to appear and being warned of the
consequences of his or her refusal to do so, if that person knowingly or
intentionally refuses to provide either his or her name, address and date of
birth; of if he or she refuses to give his or her driver’s license, if in his
or her possession; to the Town Marshal or his or her Deputies, the person shall
be deemed to have committed a Class C misdemeanor under the laws of the state.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 6)
   (F)   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this section, the
Town Marshal or his or her deputies shall prepare sufficient copies of the
written notice to appear to provide one copy to each of the following persons:
the person charged; the Clerk-Treasurer of the town; the County Court; and the
Town Marshal. Each written notice to appear shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person charged;
      (2)   The ordinance violation charged;
      (3)   The time when and the place where the violation occurred; and
      (4)   The time when and the place where the person is required to appear
in court.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 7)
   (G)   Any person receiving a written notice of violation pursuant to the
provisions of this section, within 72 hours from the date of said violation,
may appear at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town at the Town Hall,
and pay the prescribed penalty by depositing such amount along with the notice
of violation with the Clerk-Treasurer, or such person within such time may mail
such fine with the written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, P.O. Box
127, Topeka, Indiana, 46571. In the event that said 72-hour period shall expire
on a Sunday or legal holiday, such violator shall have up to 4:00 p.m. on the
next day following to pay said violation.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 8)
(Ord. III-B-1-a(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.02 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   Any person receiving a written citation charging him, her or them
with a violation of §
92.02 of this chapter may, within 72 hours from the date of said violation,
appear at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town at Town Hall and pay
the prescribed penalty along with a copy of the citation with the Clerk-
Treasurer, or such person within such time may mail such fine with the written
notice to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, P.O. Box 127, Topeka, Indiana,
46571. In the event that said 72-hour period shall expire on a Sunday or legal
holiday, said violator shall have up to 4:00 p.m. on the next following day to
pay said fine.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 5)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating §
92.03 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each date during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 5)
      (2)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to pay such
violation the Town Marshal or his or her deputies shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a proper affidavit for the arrest of such violator. Further, the Town
Marshal or his or her deputies may file any violation of §
92.03 of this chapter committed within the town with the County Court and such
proceedings to be enforce §
92.03 of this chapter shall be brought in the name of the municipal corporation
of the town. Failure to pay the sum of $100 upon the notice of violation of the
provisions of §
92.03 of this chapter, may result in charges being brought against the accused
and, upon conviction of violation of §
92.03 of this chapter, such offending party shall be fined in the amount of not
less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 3, § 9)
(Ord. III-B-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-B-1-a(2), passed 8-24-1987; Ord. III-
B-1-b, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 1996-6-24-D, passed 6-24-1996)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Generators
   
93.02   Off-premises furnaces and fuels
   
93.03   Fireworks
Open Burning
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Prohibited activity
   
93.17   Exemptions; rules
   
93.18   Acceptable burning
   
93.19   Conditions applicable to exemptions and variances
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 GENERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to utilize a generator powered by an internal
combustion engine, a diesel engine or any other engine or other means of
powering said generator, which would create sounds or noises which would extend
from and be heard or smelled off of the property upon which they are generated.
   (B)   The Town Council recognizes that from time to time emergency or
temporary backup situations occur for which an internal combustion, diesel or
other method of powering a generator is necessary. For these temporary
emergency or backup situations, this section shall not make said utilization
illegal. This section extends to only those situations for which the above-
referenced generator of electric power is the primary source of power for the
facility and/or property concerned.
(Ord. 2016-10-10(A), passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 OFF-PREMISES FURNACES AND FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to create a furnace or other burning
device intended to provide heat to a residence or structure (building) separate
or apart from the location of said furnace, burning device or structure housing
same, and to cause said furnace or other burning device to expel smoke, fumes
or other noxious or unpleasant odors from the real estate upon which the
premises is located.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 18, § 1) (Ord. 2006-12-11-A, passed 12-11-2006)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful to cause to be discharged, lit or used fireworks in the
streets, alleys or thoroughfares of the town or upon property owned by the town
or any other area owned by the town or any town committee, department or
agency, unless same is a park or other area containing over one acre of ground
and such area has been designated as a special discharge location or the use
has been approved by special permit issued by the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town
Council.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 17, § 1) (Ord. 2006-26-6-A, passed 6-26-2006) Penalty,
see §
93.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.15 DEFINITION.
   OPEN BURNING is defined as the burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air,
without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 1) (Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord.
2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012)
§ 93.16 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this subchapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or
existence of combustible material that constitutes or contributes to open
burning.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 2) (Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord.
2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 EXEMPTIONS; RULES.
   (A)   The following types of burning are allowed:
      (1)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood and other cooking
fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill or traditional food cooking devices;
      (2)   Campfires until midnight; and
      (3)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes, such as school
pep rally fires or the celebration of Scout activities. Recreational or
ceremonial fires shall meet the following.
         (a)   Only clean, untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
         (b)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
         (c)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example, ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
         (d)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance
if the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example, five feet by
five feet by five feet).
         (e)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
         (f)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel
storage area.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 3)
   (B)   All exemptions under division (A) above shall be subject to the
following.
      (1)   Only wood products or products derived from wood shall be burned
unless otherwise stated above.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   Recreational fires in town parks shall be subject to the rules and
regulations of the Park Department.
      (4)   If fires create a nuisance or a fire hazard, they shall be
extinguished immediately.
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions, such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the
like.
      (6)   No fire shall contain or consume items which will naturally result
in noxious fumes or excessive smoke.
      (7)   Burning shall not be conducted within 30 feet of a building located
on adjacent property.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 4)
(Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord. 2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 ACCEPTABLE BURNING.
   Burning with prior approval of the Fire Department, consistent with 326
I.A.C. 4-1 shall be allowed for the following:
   (A)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure to burn
would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problem;
   (B)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
   (C)   Burning for the purpose of fire training;
   (D)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation (i.e.,
removal of natural growth for change in use of the land); and
   (E)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for which no
alternative disposal method exists or where transportation of such materials is
impossible.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 5) (Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord.
2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012)
§ 93.19 CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem or threat to public health.
   (D)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on-
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules and ordinances.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 6) (Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord.
2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
93.01 of this chapter shall be deemed a Class A infraction and shall result in
a penalty of $500; and, each day said violation exists shall be deemed a
separate penalty. Any action required to obey a violation of §
93.01 of this chapter will result in the violator reimbursing the town for all
costs of enforcing §
93.01 of this chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s
fees.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.02 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection. All fines shall be payable upon conviction of
same for each day that any violation of §
93.02 of this chapter should continue.
      (2)   Section
93.02 of this chapter may be enforced by the Town Marshal, Town Attorney,
County Prosecutor or any deputy or appointee thereof.
      (3)   In addition to the fines imposed as an infraction hereunder, any
person deemed violating §
93.02 of this chapter shall be responsible for all attorney’s fees and other
costs incurred by the town in the enforcement and prosecution of §
93.02 of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 18, § 2)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.03 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 17, § 2)
   (E)   (1)   Any person found in violation of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter shall be subject to the following procedures.
         (a)   The town’s Fire and Police Departments shall issue a warning
notice to a first time violator, stating that he or she is in violation. The
person must then correct the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire.
Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter by failure or refusal to immediately extinguish the fire
commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of
collection.
         (b)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter shall also result in the Fire Department having the
authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
         (c)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued shall be considered a
separate offense.
         (d)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of
combustible material which constitutes or contributes to open burning may not
refute liability for violation of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter on the basis that said fire was set by vandals,
accidental or act of God.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 7)
      (2)   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed
Fire Chief or law enforcement officers within the town acting on his or her own
initiative or at the request of the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 10, § 8)
(Ord. III-G-1-a, passed 10-26-1992; Ord. 2006-26-6-A, passed 6-26-2006; Ord.
2006-12-11-A, passed 12-11-2006; Ord. 2012-3-26-A, passed 3-23-2012; Ord. 2016-
10-10(A), passed 10-10-2016)
CHAPTER 94: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
94.01   Testing; notification
   
94.02   Charges
   
94.03   Hearing; discontinuance or modification
§ 94.01 TESTING; NOTIFICATION.
   Any entity desiring to test or check his, her or its alarm system shall
first notify the 911 Communications Center of the county and the appropriate
town emergency personnel, before testing said equipment and following the
completion of said test.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 11, § 1) (Ord. III-H-1-a, passed 1-11-1992)
§ 94.02 CHARGES.
   Any time an alarm is turned in and emergency services personnel, which shall
include Fire Department personnel, responds, a charge shall be made for the
response of said fire equipment, pursuant to the Fire Department routine
charges and, if in fact the alarm is a false alarm, a charge of $25 per law
enforcement or emergency service vehicle of the town, which responds shall also
be made. This $25 per unit charge shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town within ten days of any charge made.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 11, § 2) (Ord. III-H-1-a, passed 1-11-1992)
§ 94.03 HEARING; DISCONTINUANCE OR MODIFICATION.
   If an entity has repeated false alarms pursuant to this chapter, the Town
Council reserves the right to contact said entity and demand his, her or its
appearance before the Town Council and, if the reason for said false alarms and
their occurrences cannot be resolved, to direct the entity to discontinue or
modify its alarm services, so as to cause the discontinuances of said false
alarms.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 11, § 3) (Ord. III-H-1-a, passed 1-11-1992)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real-estate related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
   § 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   An AGGRIEVED PERSON includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et. seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04 through
95.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Family includes a single individual, with the status of such family
being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   Means, with respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
95.05, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §
95.03(B) and §
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as DANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL-ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
95.03 through
95.06.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C)of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Town of Topeka, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the Town of Topeka, Indiana, shall refer all said
complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section
to said Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-23-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   Entertainment and sales; permits
   
110.02   Yard and garage sales
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 ENTERTAINMENT AND SALES; PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to exercise
the vocation of a hawker or conduct auction sales of goods, wares and
merchandise of nature without having first procured a license so to do in the
manner in this section hereinafter provided.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell goods from house to house
as a peddler or solicit orders for goods either for present or future delivery
without first obtaining a license so to do in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the corporation
limits of said town to own, conduct or manage for gain any theater, circus,
show or any exhibition or give concert or musical entertainment without first
obtaining a license in the manner in this section hereinafter provided.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 3)
   (D)   Any person who shall desire to obtain a license required to engage in
any business or avocation, or to do any one of these things requiring license
as provided in divisions (A) through (C) above shall make application to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer therein, truly stating the business calling or specific
thing for which he or she desires to obtain a license and the time for which he
or she may desire to obtain such license, which application shall be
accompanied by the amount of the license fee in this section hereinafter
provided. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon issue to such applicant a
license, which shall show by name the business, vocation or thing for which
said license is granted and the time for which it is granted.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 4)
   (E)   The fees for the license provided in divisions (A) through (D) above
shall be as follows:
      (1)   For street hawker as provided in division (A) above: $5 per day or
fractional part of a day;
      (2)   For selling goods from house to house or soliciting orders for
goods provided in division (B) above: the sum of $1 per day or fractional part
of a day; and
      (3)   For shows, theaters or musical entertainment as provided in
division (C) above: the sum of $5 per day or any fractional part of a day.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 5)
(Ord. IV-A-1-a(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 YARD AND GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   As used herein, GARAGE OR YARD SALE is defined as a public or private
sale conducted by the owner or occupier of a premises, and conducted within a
residence, garage, other accessory buildings or outside thereof, which sale is
of six or more items of personal property owned or in the possession of the
owner or occupier of the premises, which personal property was not acquired by
the owner or occupier for the purpose of resale.
   (B)   A garage or yard sale may be conducted two times in any one calendar
year per address on any premises located only in any residential zone, but no
such sale shall be conducted for more than three consecutive days. No such
outside sales shall be conducted in business districts, except town-wide sales.
Town-wide sales do not require a permit and do not count in the above
calculation.
   (C)   All items of personal property sold at such garage or yard sale shall
be owned by the owner or occupier of the premises, unless permission for sale
of items not owned is given at the time of issuance of the permit provided for
herein by the person issuing the permit.
   (D)   Such garage or yard sale shall only be conducted during the hours from
sunrise to sunset.
   (E)   All personal property exhibited for sale outside any structure during
such garage or yard sale shall be removed from the outside and placed within a
structure immediately following the last day of such sale. All signs erected
for such garage or yard sale shall likewise be removed within 48 hours
following the last day of such sale.
   (F)   No such garage or yard sale shall be held without the owner or
occupier of the premises having first obtained a permit therefor. Such permit
shall be obtained by applying therefor from the Administrator, who shall issue
such permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Such permit shall specify the address
and date(s) of such sale.
   (G)   Such permit shall be posted in plain view on the premises during the
date(s) of such sale.
(Ord. 2017.7.24(A), passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any one of the provisions of §
110.01 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and
costs of collection. Each offense and each day such person, firm or corporation
shall engage in any business, vocation or pursuit requiring a license under the
provisions of §
110.01 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Title VI, Ch. 1, § 6)
   (C)   (1)   Failure to obtain a permit prior to a garage sale shall be
deemed a Class C infraction, which will result in a fine of $50.
      (2)   In addition to the above fine, any person violating §
110.02 of this chapter shall be liable for any and all attorney’s fees and all
other costs of collection.
(Ord. IV-A-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. 2017.7.24(A), passed 7-24-2017)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   License required; application
   
111.04   Issuance of license
   
111.05   Carrying license
   
111.06   Compliance with law; misrepresentation
   
111.07   Unlawful peddling activities
   
111.08   Unlawful street vending activities
   
111.09   Revocation of license; appeal; reinstatement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMODITY. Any product, merchandise, real or personal property, intangible
property or asset, publication, ticket, membership or enrollment, or any
service or labor to be performed by contract or subscription other than as an
employee of the person for whom the service or labor is performed.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, without appointment, invitation or other form of
prior arrangement and consent by the owner or person in charge of any premises,
or his or her presumptive agent, calls at any residence, office, business
establishment or other organization for the purpose of selling any commodity,
except as provided otherwise in this chapter.
   SELL. Tendering, offering, demonstrating or exhibiting for purchase, order,
lease, subscription, enrollment or other acceptance of any commodity in
exchange for money, barter in kind or other valuable payment, either present or
future.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person who, in any street, sidewalk or other public place
or common area, sells any commodity by standing, walking about or operating
from a portable stand, pull cart, wagon, van or similar conveyance not
constituting a fixed and established place of business, except as provided
otherwise in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following persons are not considered peddlers or street vendors for
purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   A producer, manufacturer or wholesaler, or his or her authorized
representative or salesperson, who calls upon a wholesale or retail merchant
for the purpose of persuading the merchant to stock, order or accept on
consignment any commodity for distribution or resale to others in the course of
his or her business;
   (B)   A person who, subject to the statutory authority of the Board of Parks
and Recreation, has been granted by it a concession to sell any commodity
within the public parks, or other property under its authority, and who limits
the conduct of the activity to those premises and according to the rules and
requirements as the Board of Parks and Recreation may establish; and/or
   (C)   A person who sells any commodity as part of a bona fide fund-raising
effort in support of a non- profit charitable, educational, cultural,
scientific, religious or civic organization or purpose, and no part of the
proceeds from the sale is paid to or retained by the person for his or her own
benefit, other than as reimbursement for personal out-of-pocket expenditures
incurred in the activity.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to act as a peddler or street vendor
without having a valid peddler’s or street vendor’s license.
   (B)   An application for a peddler’s or street vendor’s license must be
submitted on a form to be prescribed by and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. The
application shall state or provide the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, current address and address of permanent
residence, if different;
      (2)   Whether the application is for:
         (a)   A peddler’s license; or
         (b)   A street vendor’s license.
      (3)   The driver’s license number of the applicant and license plate
number of any motor vehicle to be used for purposes of peddling or street
vending, if applicable;
      (4)   The nature of the commodity or commodities to be sold;
      (5)   The name and address of any person whose commodities will be sold
by the applicant as an agent or representative for that person, or else a
statement that the applicant will operate as an independent vendor;
      (6)   As the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine, either a recent color
photograph of suitable size for affixture to the application and license, or
else a physical description of the applicant including approximate height,
weight, hair color, eye color, race or skin color and age; and
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted in this state or any other state, the United States or any foreign
country of a misdemeanor or felony committed in connection with previous
peddling or street vending activities, or is under indictment therefor and, if
so, the particulars thereof.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may require the applicant to submit with the
application any documentation reasonably necessary to substantiate any of the
above information. In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer may also require the
applicant to submit evidence that he or she is duly registered with the state’s
Department of Revenue for the collection and payment of any sales tax
applicable to the commodities to be sold; and, if any commodity to be sold is a
food product for human consumption other than commercially processed food sold
in prepackaged form, that the applicant meets all requirements and has all
permits that may be required by the State or County Board of Health. It is a
violation of this chapter to knowingly provide or submit any false information
or documentation with the application. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to bar a person from holding both a peddler’s license and a street
vendor’s license, but a separate application shall be required for each
license.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)    Whenever an application has been filed, information and documentation
have been provided to the satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer, and all other
requirements have been complied with by the applicant in accordance with this
chapter, state and county law, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue and provide to
the applicant a license. The license shall be on a form prescribed by the
Clerk-Treasurer, but shall include the information prescribed in this chapter.
However, if the information provided in accordance with this chapter is
affirmative, provisions set forth in I.C. 25-1-1.1-1, et seq. shall be
followed. A license fee of $50 per day shall be paid to the town before a
peddler's license is issued. An annual license fee of $500 shall be paid to the
town before a street vendor license is issued. A license issued under this
section shall expire as provided above, unless it is previously revoked
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. When the license is issued, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall file one copy of the application and provide one copy to the
Town Marshal, both copies annotated as to the date of issuance of said license.
Provided further that entities who are coordinating town celebrations or events
may petition the Town Council and, if appropriate, the Town Council may for the
date(s) of said event declare the town peddler’s license waived for such events
so long as the peddler or vendor makes financial and registration arrangements
with the entity coordinating the celebrations and pays all financial agreements
consistent therewith.
   (B)   A license issued under this section applies only to the original
applicant and is not transferrable by any means.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 2024-12-16, passed - -)
§ 111.05 CARRYING LICENSE.
   Any person licensed as a peddler or street vendor shall carry his or her
license upon his or her person at all times when engaging in peddling or street
vending activities, and it is unlawful for the person to refuse to show the
license to any police officer or to any citizen who has been approached for the
purpose of peddling or street vending, who demands to see the license.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; MISREPRESENTATION.
   The issuance and possession of peddler’s or street vendor’s license shall
not be to authorize a person to engage in peddling or street vending
activities, except in strict compliance with the provisions of all other laws
and ordinances which may be directly or incidentally applicable thereto. The
issuance and possession of a license does not imply, and it is unlawful for any
person in any way to represent that it does imply, that the town warrants or
vouches for the quality or fairness of price of any commodity for the integrity
or reliability of the peddler or street vendor or any person whom he or she
represents.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 UNLAWFUL PEDDLING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to engage in any peddling activity, except in
compliance with the following specific regulations.
      (1)   Any person who does not wish to be called upon by any peddler may
post or erect a sign at, or clearly visible from, the door or other entrance to
his or her premises with the sign saying “No Solicitors”, “No Peddlers” or
other wording of clearly similar meaning and intent; and all peddlers shall be
obligated to respect the sign and shall not enter upon or approach the premises
for the purpose of selling any commodity.
      (2)   No peddler shall employ harassing, annoying or coercive selling
tactics: by refusing to leave when a sale has been declined; by returning to
any premises with undue and unreasonable frequency or returning at all when
specifically told not to return; by continuously or insistently ringing a
doorbell or knocking on a door when a door is not answered; by the threatening
or implying any harm to a person or his or her property if a sale is refused;
or by indicating or implying that the health, safety or welfare of a person, or
his or her property, will be jeopardized by failure to buy or use any
commodity, when there is no substantial business in fact or probability for the
allegation.
   (B)   The regulations imposed on peddling activities by this section are
applicable whether or not the peddler possesses a valid license as herein
provided; and any person found to be peddling without a license, but also in
violation of this section, commits and may be cited and prosecuted for, two
separate offenses.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 UNLAWFUL STREET VENDING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to engage in any street vending activity, except in
compliance with the following specific regulations.
      (1)   No street vendor shall enter upon any private premises for the
purpose of selling any commodity without the knowledge and consent of the owner
or other person in charge of the private premises.
      (2)   No street vendor shall conduct his or her selling activities in any
public park, unless he or she is eligible to do so under the provisions above.
      (3)   No street vendor shall dispose or erect any display, sign, stand,
conveyance or vehicle in a way as to substantially obstruct any public way or
thoroughfare, pose a hazard or inconvenience to the public or impair the use
and enjoyment of public property and facilities by others. However a street
vendor utilizing a motor vehicle may occupy one legal parking space for a
period not to exceed two hours at any one time; provided that, a lesser time
limit is not otherwise imposed for the use of the parking space.
   (B)   The regulations imposed on street vending activities by this section
are applicable whether or not a street vendor posses a valid license, as herein
provided, and any person found to be engaged in street vending activities
without a license, but also in violation of this section, commits, and may be
cited and prosecuted for, two separate offenses.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL; REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   If it is found that the license holder has provided false
information in connection with the license application;
      (2)   If the license holder, during the term of the license, admits guilt
or is convicted of:
         (a)   Any violation of this chapter;
         (b)   A violation of the law of any state, federal law or the law of
any foreign country in connection with peddling or street vending activities
and constituting a misdemeanor or felony; and/or
         (c)   Any combination consisting of two or more instances of violation
of a county ordinance or other town ordinance and the offense was committed
while engaging in peddling or street vending activities within the town.
      (3)   If the Clerk-Treasurer directly or indirectly receives written
complaints from at least three citizens regarding the license holder’s peddling
or street vending activities during the term of the license; provided that, the
complaints must be based on allegations substantiated by factual description of
related violations of this chapter or of other applicable laws or ordinances.
It shall not be a sufficient complaint merely that the citizen regards the
activity as objectionable or nuisance per se.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a license is revoked under this section, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall send written notice by regular mail to the current address of
the license holder, or to the address of his or her permanent residence if the
listed current address is no longer valid, notifying him or her of the
revocation and the reason therefor, his or her right to appeal, as herein
provided, and that, within 48 hours of the receipt of the notice, the license
holder is required to either personally surrender his or her license at the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, or to deposit same in the U.S. mail addressed to
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, and to forthwith cease all peddling or
street vending activities within the town.
      (2)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to fail to
surrender his or her license, as herein provided.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall concurrently notify the Town Marshal of
the license revocation. However, when a license is revoked under this section,
the license holder may appeal the decision to the Town Council, either in
writing or by personal appearance. The Town Council shall act on the appeal at
its next regular meeting, or sooner if it so wishes, and may uphold the
revocation or may find that, in consideration of all circumstances, the
revocation is not warranted or necessary and orders the Clerk-Treasurer to
reinstate the license. If so reinstated, the Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately
return the license to the license holder by regular mail and notify the Town
Marshal of the reinstatement. When a license is revoked and is not reinstated,
as herein provided, the license holder is ineligible to apply for another
license for at least one year and any application must be approved by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. Each day
that a violation continues is considered a separate offense if not otherwise
comprising a discrete act and violation.
(Ord. 2014-5-12, passed 5-12-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   REAL ESTATE USED FOR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
      
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Unlawful recreational activities in street
   
130.02   Discharge of weapons
   
130.03   Toy vehicles
   
130.04   Open containers
   
130.05   Synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to place adjacent to or upon the
streets of the town any sporting device, such as a portable basketball hoop,
for the specific purpose of engaging in sporting activities within the streets
of the town.
(Title VII, Ch. 7) (Ord. III-B-1-a(6), passed 4-14-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to
discharge a firearm, bows and arrows and other hunting devices, a BB gun, a
pellet gun or cannon, to detonate an explosive within the corporate limits of
the town or to assist any person or persons to engage in any such discharging
or detonation, unless such person, entity or corporation has been granted
special permission in advance by the Town Marshal or the Town Council.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any of the following activities:
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who shall discharge a firearm in the
lawful performance of his or her duty;
      (2)   Any person who shall discharge a firearm in the protection of life
or property when the surrounding facts and circumstances justify such action;
or
      (3)   Any person who shall, in connection with an athletic event,
discharge a blank cartridge.
   (C)   A FIREARM shall be defined as any weapon that is capable or designed
to or that may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of an
explosion, with an explosive mixture that is commonly used or intended for the
purpose of producing an explosive or contains any oxidizing and combustive
units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or packing than
ignition by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or detonator of any part of
the compound mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases
that the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructible
effects on contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb.
   (D)   This section may be enforced by the Town Marshal, all police officers
and any prosecutor or attorney duly appointed, constituted and acting under the
authority of the town.
(Title VII, Ch. 6) (Ord. III-E-1-a(2), passed 10-11-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard or any other
similar type conveyance upon the sidewalks of the downtown area of the town,
which area shall consist of the sidewalks and related appurtenances beginning
at the north side of North Alley and continuing south along the east and west
sides of Main Street to the south corner of Mill Street and beginning at the
west side of Babcock Street and continuing east along the north and south sides
of Lake Street to the east corner of Harrison Street.
(Title VII, Ch. 1) (Ord. III-A-1-a(1)b, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   The operation of a motor vehicle or a horse-drawn vehicle within which is
located an open container, bottle or can the contents of which contains alcohol
or any other intoxicating beverage, malt drink, liquor or beverage having as a
base or part of its content any substance with an alcohol content susceptible
to being absorbed into the blood stream of an individual and resulting in an
individual drinking said beverage to become intoxicated, as such is defined
under the laws of the state, shall be unlawful.
(Title VII, Ch. 2) (Ord. III-A-2-a, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to use, possess,
purchase, attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to
sell, give or barter any one or more of the following chemicals, or any item
which alleges to contain them, within the boundaries of the town:
      (1)   2-[(1R, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol,
also known as CP 47,497 and its C6, C7, C8 and C9 homologues;
      (2)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (3)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl) methanone, also known as 1
Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole or JWH-018; and
      (4)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone, also known as 1-
Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole or JWH-073.
   (B)   This section shall be enforced by the town’s Police Department. If any
of the substances listed in division (A) above are found in the possession of
any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law enforcement officials.
   (C)   It is not an offense under division (A) above if the person was acting
at the direction of an authorized law enforcement agent to enforce or ensure
compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned substance.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act. This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
(Title V, Ch. 19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(Title VII, Ch. 7)
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.02 of this chapter shall be charged in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction and, upon the appropriate finding, shall be deemed to have
committed a Class C infraction and fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus
any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. Any subsequent admission
or judgment of a violation thereafter under §
130.02 of this chapter within a calendar year shall be deemed a Class A
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(Title VII, Ch. 6)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.03 of this chapter commits a Class B infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
(Title VII, Ch. 1)
   (E)   Any person violating §
130.04 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. Section 130.04 of
this chapter may be enforced by any state, county or town law enforcement
officer.
(Title VII, Ch. 2)
   (F)   (1)   Any business found to be in violation of §
130.05 of this chapter will be subject to a civil fine of $2,500. Any person
found in violation of §
130.05 of this chapter will be guilty of a civil fine not to exceed $1,000.
      (2)   The Town Attorney shall have the authority to seek an injunction to
close any business which refuses to or fails to comply with §
130.05 of this chapter. Section 130.05 of this chapter may be enforced by the
Town Marshal, his or her deputy and any other law enforcement officer with
arrest powers in the state and prosecuted by the Town Attorney or any
prosecutor of the state, either designee or deputy.
      (3)   In addition to the fines imposed as an infraction hereunder, any
person deemed violating §
130.05 of this chapter shall be responsible for all attorney’s fees and other
costs incurred by the town in the enforcement and prosecution of §
130.05 of this chapter.
(Title V, Ch. 19)
(Ord. III-A-1-a(1)b, passed - -; Ord. III-A-2-a, passed 4-13-1992; Ord. III-E-
1-a(2), passed 10-11-1999; Ord. III-B-1-a(6), passed 4-14-2003)
CHAPTER 131: REAL ESTATE USED FOR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
   
131.01   Permitting use of real estate for illicit drug activity;
discrimination
   
131.02   Reports, investigations and notices by Police Department
   
131.03   Criteria for establishing violation
   
131.04   Eviction proceedings as defense
   
131.05   Multiple unit dwellings
   
131.06   Filing criminal charges
   
131.07   Assistance by Town Marshal; list to be kept
   
131.08   Limited indemnification of owners of real estate
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PERMITTING USE OF REAL ESTATE FOR ILLICIT DRUG ACTIVITY;
DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Council finds it to be in the best interests of the
residents of the town and the general public to provide for the regulation of
conduct it deems to be offensive, to prevent vice, disorder and immorality and
to promote public peace, health and safety and, to this end, the Town Council
enacts this chapter.
   (B)   Permitting the use of real estate for illicit drug activity.
      (1)   No owner of real estate located in the town shall knowingly allow
that real estate to be used as a site for any use or sale of illicit narcotics
or controlled dangerous substances, after having received written notice
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-25, from the Marshal’s office of the town, that a
present occupant or tenant of that property has been using or selling illicit
narcotics or controlled dangerous substances, or allowing the using or selling
of illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances at that property, or
has otherwise been engaging in or allowed activity constituting a nuisance
pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1. A legal or equitable owner of such real estate is
deemed to have knowledge of such activity upon receipt of notice set forth
herein. For the purposes of this division (B)(1), an OWNER OF REAL ESTATE is
defined as any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
have legal or equitable title to any dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (2)   Notice is deemed to be given to the owner, upon receipt of notice
as indicated above, by the owner of record pursuant to the records and files of
the office of the County Assessor.
   (C)   Discrimination forbidden. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to encourage or authorize the discrimination by lessors against any person(s)
based upon race, creed, religion, sex, age or national origin. Rather, it is
the intent of this chapter to hold persons accountable for acquiescing in or
participating in the continued use of his or her property as the location of
illegal drug activity after having received notice as set forth in division (B)
(2) above.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 1) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003) Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.02 REPORTS, INVESTIGATIONS AND NOTICES BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A complaint or report of suspected illegal activities constituting the
use or sale of narcotics or controlled substances, or conduct constituting a
nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1, by tenants, occupants and/or their
visitors, guests or invitees as observed by the lessor, third persons such as
other tenants of the property, or persons residing or working in the vicinity
of the property, or town officials, and/or representatives of agencies and/or
departments of the town shall be submitted to the office of the Town Marshal
and each such report or complaint shall be individually logged in that office.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any report or complaint of such suspected illegal
activities on real estate premises, a determination shall be made by the town,
Town Marshal and or other law enforcement agencies as to the need and nature of
any further investigation including, but not limited to, the necessity for
surveillance by the Town Marshal of such real estate premises.
   (C)   Upon completion of investigation by the Town Marshal revealing that
such suspected illegal activity is taking place at a particular premises, a
warning letter shall be sent by the Town Marshal to the owner of the real
estate and a copy to the tenant/occupant whose premises is the subject of the
investigation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, informing the owner
of the investigation revealed the suspected illegal activity and the fact that
there is an on-going investigation. The warning letter shall inform the owner
of his or her choice to take action to abate such suspected illegal activity
and of the intent of the Town Marshal, if its on-going investigation indicates
such suspected illegal activity has not ceased, to take further legal action.
   (D)   Once a search warrant has been obtained to search the real estate
premises for narcotics or controlled substances, or for any other evidence
related to such suspected illegal activity, a second letter which shall be sent
to the owner of the real estate by certified mail, return receipt requested,
shall inform the owner that such warrant was served, that the investigation at
the premises is continuing and that legal proceedings may be commenced pursuant
to this chapter. Such letter shall inform the owner of his or her choice to
take some form of remedial action. A copy of the letter shall be sent to the
Town Marshal, the Town Attorney’s office and to the tenant/occupant of the
premises for which a search warrant is obtained.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a copy of the second letter issued under division (D)
above, the Town Attorney’s office may proceed under I.C. 34-1-52-2(b) to abate
or enjoin any suspected illegal activity as defined herein constituting a
nuisance, as defined in I.C. 32-30-8-1, and/or to advise the Town Marshal to
issue a notice pursuant to §
131.01 of this chapter. The notice shall advise that legal proceedings may be
instituted against the owner of real estate pursuant to this chapter and shall
also inform the owner of his or her choice to commence eviction proceedings
pursuant to §
131.04 of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 2) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.03 CRITERIA FOR ESTABLISHING VIOLATION.
   Conviction for a violation of this chapter will be determined by the
appropriate judicial authority based upon the totality of the circumstances
present, including, but not limited to, that the owner has received notices of
suspected illegal activity pursuant to §§
131.01 and
131.02 of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.04 EVICTION PROCEEDINGS AS DEFENSE.
   (A)   No person shall be charged with the violation of this chapter if such
person:
      (1)   Has instituted eviction proceedings within 30 days of receipt of
the notice of criminal activities in accordance with §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter, against the tenant whose suspected criminal activities
would otherwise give rise to potential liability under this chapter; and
      (2)   Has completed the eviction proceedings within 30 days of
commencement of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any eviction proceedings are not completed within 30 days by reason
of court-ordered delays in such proceedings, the person charged with a
violation of this chapter must, nonetheless, move forward expeditiously with
any such eviction proceeding.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 4) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.05 MULTIPLE UNIT DWELLINGS.
   In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person(s) necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying the actual unit
involved with the suspected illegal activity described herein.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.06 FILING CRIMINAL CHARGES.
   Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this chapter shall be
an adjunct to, and not substitution for, any criminal charges filed as a result
of investigation by the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of that
owner’s real estate premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or controlled
dangerous substances, or conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-
30-8-1.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 6) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.07 ASSISTANCE BY TOWN MARSHAL; LIST TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate and
assist owners of real estate in avoiding placing tenants or occupants in their
real estate who are known violators of illegal activities enumerated herein.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 7)
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall keep a list of the names and addresses of all
tenants/occupants to whom copies of letters were sent pursuant to this chapter
and shall make the names available to members of the public requesting same in
reference to potential renters of real estate in the town.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 8)
(Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.08 LIMITED INDEMNIFICATION OF OWNERS OF REAL ESTATE.
   The town shall provide a limited indemnification to an owner of real estate
located in the town, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The owner of real estate shall have received the written notice
required by §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter from the Town Marshal, advising that a present occupant
or tenant of the property of that owner of real estate has been using or
selling illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances or allowing the
using or selling of illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances at
that property or as otherwise been engaging in or allowing activity
constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1.
   (B)   The owner of real estate has instituted eviction proceedings with 30
days of receipt of notice of suspected illegal activities in accordance with §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter against a tenant whose suspected criminal activities
would otherwise give rise to potential liability under this chapter.
   (C)   The owner of real estate shall give no less than 30 days’ notice to
the Town Attorney, by certified mail, return-receipt requested, of the trial
date for any eviction proceedings and a list containing the names and addresses
of all witnesses the owner of real estate intends to call at the hearing.
   (D)   The Town Attorney, upon receipt of the notice and list of witnesses,
shall have the right to provide the owner of real estate with the names and
addresses of additional other witnesses including, but not limited to,
witnesses from the Town Marshal whose presence shall be required at the hearing
on the eviction proceedings.
   (E)   All witness listed by either the owner of real estate and/or the Town
Attorney’s office shall be subpoenaed by the owner of real estate in proper and
legal fashion, violation of this chapter shall be an adjunct to, and not
substitution for, any criminal charges filed as a result of investigation by
the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of that owner’s real estate
premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or controlled dangerous substances or
conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 34-1-52-1.
   (F)   The tenant involved as a defendant in the eviction proceedings shall
prevail on the merits, not by reason of procedural irregularities, but by sole
reason that a court finds after trial that the illegal activity alleged in the
notice the owner of real estate had received pursuant to §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter did not, in fact, take place.
   (G)   The tenant institutes legal proceedings against the owner of real
estate in the form of a counter claim or separate action and obtains a judgment
for damages against the owner of real estate by reason of the tenant having
prevailed on the merits in accordance with division (F) above.
   (H)   The owner of real estate completes whatever steps he or she chooses to
undertake to seek review of the judgment by motion to correct errors and/or
appeal.
   (I)   The limited indemnification by the town shall be restricted solely to
those damages assessed by judgment against the owner of real estate as set out
aforesaid, but shall not, in any event, include any attorney’s fees incurred by
the owner of real estate in connection with the enforcement of any of the terms
of this chapter, but will include either the reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred in the defense of legal proceedings brought by a tenant pursuant to
division (G) above regardless of the outcome of the proceedings or the
provision of the legal services by the town, at the town’s option.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 8) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in a sum up to $2,500 and costs of prosecution. Each day a
violation of this chapter continues constitutes a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title VII, Ch. 8, § 10) (Ord. III-I-1, passed 1-27-2003)
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Findings
   
132.02   Curfew times
   
132.03   Application; defenses
   
132.04   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 FINDINGS.
   Conditions have been found to exist in the town that make it reasonable for
the purposes of public safety to establish curfew times earlier than those
specified by I.C. 31-37-2 and 31-37-3, in particular the loitering of young
people in public places late at night and the subsequent occurrence of
vandalism and damage to property at or near the times said young people have
been found to have gathered in various public places within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 5, § 1) (Ord. III-B-1-d, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 132.02 CURFEW TIMES.
   It is a curfew violation for a child under 18 years of age to be in a public
place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 5, § 2) (Ord. III-B-1-d, passed 7-27-1998) Penalty,
see §
132.99
§ 132.03 APPLICATION; DEFENSES.
   The above stated curfew times do not apply to a child who is: accompanied by
his or her parent, guardian or custodian; accompanied by an adult specified by
his or her parent, guardian or custodian; or participating in, going to or
returning from lawful employment, a school-sanctioned activity or a religious
event.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 5, § 3) (Ord. III-B-1-d, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 132.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by the Town Marshal, all police officers and
any prosecutor or attorney duly appointed, constituted and acting under the
authority of the town.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 5, § 5) (Ord. III-B-1-d, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   The first violation of this chapter shall be handled with the return of the
child to his or her parent. Any subsequent violation of this chapter will
subject the parent of any child who violates this chapter to a Class C
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, the parent shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 5, § 4) (Ord. III-B-1-d, passed 7-27-1998)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
154.   MOBILE DWELLING UNITS
      
155.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   County Building Department and Building Commissioner
   
150.02   Single agency for building regulation
   
150.03   Building construction registration fee
   
150.04   Unsafe Building Law
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Definitions
   
150.18   Scope
   
150.19   Authority
   
150.20   Severability
   
150.21   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
150.22   Building permits
   
150.23   Investigations and inspections of construction activities
   
150.24   Enforcement
   
150.25   Minimum construction standards
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 COUNTY BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Building Department of the county and the Building Commissioner,
or his or her designee, shall have the full authority, both expressed and
implied, to perform the responsibilities, activities and all necessary actions
required to be performed by the Building Commissioner, in furtherance of an
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   All powers of interpretation, enforcement or otherwise, created or
implied by this chapter are hereby delegated to the county’s Building
Department and the county’s Building Commissioner or his or her designee, by
said Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council does hereby specifically agree to permit the county
to assess or establish by ordinance the appropriate fees, fines, penalties or
other moneys to be collected for enforcement of this chapter and does further
agree to jointly execute with the county any ordinances which they should deem
necessary in furtherance of the establishment of fees, fines or assessments to
be charged by the Building Department and/or Building Commissioner.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall ascertain that no actual building
permits for construction to occur within the town shall be issued until such
time that the application has been reviewed by the Town Council, as to zoning,
planning, building and appropriateness of such building activity, and a letter
approving same has been made a part of the permanent permit file.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 2) (Ord. 2005-7-25-B, passed 7-25-2005)
§ 150.02 SINGLE AGENCY FOR BUILDING REGULATION.
   (A)   Between the county and the town, whose agency are signatories hereto,
that:
      (1)   The Building Department of the county, by and through its Building
Commissioner and inspectors, is the single agency designated to administer the
building rules and inspections within the boundaries of the town;
      (2)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered
to issue building permits, make inspection, order corrections of violations,
issue certificates of occupancy and to perform such other ministerial duties as
are commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of the
town, in a manner consistent with and in full compliance with the requirements
of this section;
      (3)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the county executive pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9 and to the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as provided for in I.C. 22-12-
2-1 et seq.;
      (4)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of the
county to enforce his or her lawful orders to obtain compliance with the
building rules of the town shall be brought to the Town Attorney for
disposition;
      (5)   The town adopts the fee schedule adopted by the county in Ord.
2005-6-20C, or as from time to time amended, as the same fees to be collected
by the Building Commissioner of the county in the administration and
enforcement of this section; and
      (6)   Such permit fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of
the county shall be accounted for and deposited as directed by county ordinance
and shall be considered full payment for any inspection services provided by
his or her office on behalf of the town.
   (B)   This joint resolution shall become effective upon approval by the
Board of County Commissioners and the Town Council and upon signing this
document by their chief executive officers.
   (C)   This joint resolution shall be in effect continuously year to year
without the necessity of a formal renewal by any party thereto, unless
terminated by the resolution of the Board of Commissioners of the county or the
Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 3) (Ord. 2005-11-14-A, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 150.03 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   The town does hereby establish a building construction registration
fee, separate and apart from the permit fee established by the county and does
further require that any individual intending to construct a building or effect
any change upon a current building which would require a separate building
permit to be issued through the county, shall register this construction with
the town on the approved town form and pay a fee of $10. The town will send
notice of this registration to the county for purposes of being utilized by the
county as a part of its building permit process.
   (B)   The county shall issue no building permit until such time as a town
resident has presented proof of registration of his or her construction/
building activity with the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 4) (Ord. I-F-1-a(4), passed 2-10-1997)
§ 150.04 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Adoption of the Unsafe Building Law. The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-
9, which establishes the state’s Unsafe Building Law, and explicitly
incorporates by reference, the definition of “substantial property interest”
found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
   (B)   Creation of the Department of Unsafe Structures. The town hereby
establishes the Department of Unsafe Structures. The Town Manager shall serve
as the chief administrative officer of the Department of Unsafe Structures.
Other members of the Department shall be the Fire Chief and Clerk- Treasurer.
The purpose of the Department will be to administer this section and ensure
compliance with I.C. 36-7-9.
   (C)   Appointment of Department to administer section. The Department of
Unsafe Structures shall be the executive department authorized to administer
and enforce this section.
   (D)   Construction. Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute
as amended from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that may
supersede it relating to the same or similar subject matter.
   (E)   Hearing Authority. The Town Board shall annually appoint an
independent party, licensed to practice law in the state, as the Hearing
Authority. No one who is employed by the Enforcement Authority may be
designated as a Hearing Authority.
(Ord. 2014-06-23, passed 6-23-2014) Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the “Building Code of Topeka, Indiana”.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the town and shall be construed in such
a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Individuals employed by the Building Department that
are authorized to represent the BUILDING COMMISSIONER. If the town should, by
ordinance, delegate the responsibilities under this subchapter, such references
shall apply to those such delegated.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; and
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above; and
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a) above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)    Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose
on the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, “structure” includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, “structure” includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable for inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on 1-1-2003. This definition is as follows:
“‘Manufactured home’ means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein; except that, such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph, except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
and except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.”
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither of the following suspended between two or more parts of a building or
between two or more buildings:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.18 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.19 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.20 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word or any other portion) of
this subchapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if any, only if
such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be
given the effect intended in adopting this subchapter. To this end, the
provisions of this subchapter are severable.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.21 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this subchapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. These rights, liabilities and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.22 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in
conformity with a valid building permit obtained from the Building Commissioner
prior to commencement of construction.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 8)
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Building Commissioner and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the state’s Building Commissioner and the state’s Fire
Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds
to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances
or law; and
         (f)   The appropriate fee.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 9)
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. No building permit shall issue, until and
only after, the application has been reviewed for conformity with zoning,
planning, building and appropriateness by the Town Council. The Building
Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after the person has
submitted a complete application, letter of Town Council approval, including
any applicable fee; provided that, the proposed construction will conform to
all applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 10)
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for any building
or structure shall be issued unless such building or structure was constructed
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to
occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 11)
(Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.23 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 12)
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Building Commissioner and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws. (The Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17.)
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 13)
(Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building
permit or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned
for insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to the town or county, or
inspection fees owed to the Building Commissioner), the Building Commissioner
may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time
that the debt is satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 14)
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Building Commissioner may revoke a building
permit when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
      (3)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter; and
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 15)
   (C)   Stop-work order.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension
of the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State with specificity the construction to which it is
applicable and the reason for its issuance;
         (c)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
         (d)   If practicable, be given to:
            1.   The person doing the construction; and
            2.   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
         (e)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
         (a)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but
not limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction;
         (b)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
and
         (c)   Construction for which a building permit is required is
proceeding without a building permit being in force.
      (4)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 16)
   (D)   Right of appeal. Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this
subchapter shall have the right to petition for review of any order of the
Building Commissioner. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both,
of the following procedures.
      (1)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
         (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
town that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C.
22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 19)
(Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.25 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of rules by reference.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include any later amendments to those rules:
         (a)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
            1.   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
            2.   Indiana Building Code.
         (b)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code;
         (c)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code;
         (d)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code;
         (e)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code;
         (f)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
         (g)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
         (h)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code;
         (i)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
         (j)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
      (2)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference
are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building
laws adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 20)
   (B)   Lifting devices located within a private residence.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-l-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as
elevators and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not
regulated lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to
lifting devices located within a private residence are incorporated by
reference:
         (a)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (b)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME Al
7.1-2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (c)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda
218 to ASME 81.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair Lifts,
published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue,
New York, New York 10016;
         (d)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
         (e)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (2)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative
body for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 21)
(Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
150.04 of this chapter shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any party found to have violated §
150.04 of this chapter shall reimburse the town all reasonable expenses
incurred in administration and enforcement of §
150.04 of this chapter, professional, legal and otherwise, as relates to such
violation.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action
in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a
provision of §§
150.15 through
150.25 of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 17)
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.25 of this chapter may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding
$2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in §§
150.15 through
150.25 of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 18)
(Ord. 2005-7-25-A, passed - -; Ord. 2014-06-23, passed 6-23-2014)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Cutting or boring across or under town streets
Excavations and Obstructions
   
151.15   Definitions
   
151.16   Lighting at night
   
151.17   Barricades or guards required; injury to or removal
   
151.18   Obstructing free passage of streets
   
151.19   Compliance required
   
151.20   Permit required; fee
   
151.21   Bond required
   
151.22   Backfilling and repaving
   
151.23   Liability of permittee to continue for one year
   
151.24   Authority to issue or deny permits
   
151.25   Mains and pipes; location; supervision of work
   
151.26   Notice of completion
   
151.27   Tunneling
   
151.28   Barricades and danger lights
   
151.29   Protection of sides; injury to adjoining pavements
Sidewalks
   
151.40   Definitions
   
151.41   Purposes of sidewalks
   
151.42   Construction standards
   
151.43   Location
   
151.44   Financing
   
151.45   Implementation
   
151.46   Failure of owner to construct sidewalk
   
151.47   Grade establishment
   
151.48   Ice, snow or debris
   
151.49   Notice to construct or improve
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 CUTTING OR BORING ACROSS OR UNDER TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Council, states that before any street cut, boring underneath
a street, the introduction of any utility or other construction activities to
occur around, under or across the right-of-way of the town and/or its town
streets, including driveways or curb cuts, a detailed drawing concerning said
boring, cut or construction activity shall be submitted to the town and a
request for a permit be made.
   (B)   If these requests are concerning minor construction or utility
matters, that said application shall be reviewed by the Town Manager and/or
Clerk-Treasurer, and approval of same may be made, with permit being issued.
   (C)   All other matters considered major in nature shall be submitted to the
Town Council for its approval prior to the execution and issuance of any
permit.
   (D)   If the cut is emergency in nature, the term EMERGENCY shall mean the
repair of a utility which must be made to restore service, to avoid property
damage or to eliminate danger to the public. Notice of an emergency pavement
cut shall be given to the town by telephone during normal business hours. If
the cut is made after normal business hours, then notification shall be given
at the beginning of the next business day. An application will be made for a
permit for all emergency cuts within 72 hours after the cut has been made. All
other provisions of this section shall apply to emergency cuts.
   (E)   A permit fee of $50 shall be charged, except in the case of a utility,
said fee shall be waived.
   (F)   The application attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit
“A” shall be filed with the payment of same fee or at the time said fee is
waived.
(Ord. 2018-04-23(A), passed 4-23-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any unforseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes danger to the health or welfare of persons or property, or which
may cause or does cause the interruption of a service being furnished by a
public utility doing business in the town and which utility is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state.
   PERMIT. The authorization issued by the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, to make any opening or excavation in a street of
the town.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PETITIONER. Any person who makes “a request” for a permit, pursuant to the
provisions hereof.
   STREET. Any public street, public highway, public alley, public right-of-way
or a public road, any of which is under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   TOWN. The Town of Topeka, Indiana.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 1) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.16 LIGHTING AT NIGHT.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation in any street in the town shall mark
and designate such excavation by a light or lights placed at such excavation
during all hours of darkness during the existence of the excavation. Such light
or lights shall be placed at the points where such excavation approaches the
traveled portion of such street and it or they shall be kept burning during all
hours of darkness. The type of light or lights to be used for this purpose is
to be designated by the Town Council or its designated representative or agent.
   (B)   Any person placing any obstruction in any street while constructing or
repairing any building or other structure, or while improving or repairing the
street, or in laying any conduits, wires, pipes, mains or sewers, shall make
such obstruction during the hours of darkness which such obstruction exists by
a light or lights so placed as to indicate the obstruction to any person
passing along such street.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 2) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 BARRICADES OR GUARDS REQUIRED; INJURY TO OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation or placing any building material or
obstruction in any street shall, in addition to the light or lights required by
§
151.16 of this chapter, guard such excavation or obstruction by barriers or
barricades in such manner as to warn travelers of the existence of such
excavations or obstructions and to prevent pedestrians and vehicles from
falling into such excavations or going upon such obstructions.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, remove, destroy or in any
manner interfere with any light, barrier or barricade placed at any excavation
or obstruction, as required by this subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 4)
(Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
151.99
§ 151.18 OBSTRUCTING FREE PASSAGE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person by any means or in any manner to
collect together vehicles or any substance or materials so as to obstruct the
free passage or use of any street.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person making an
obstruction under any building permit or under any right granted by any
provisions of this code, any ordinances or legal authority.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 5) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, cause or permit to be done any
digging, cutting or excavating into or upon any street, or into or through any
pavement thereon in the town, except in accordance with and as provided in this
subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 6) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No opening or excavation shall be made under the provisions of
this subchapter until a permit therefor shall have been duly granted as
provided in this subchapter. The work for which the permit is granted must be
started within 30 days of the issuance of said permit or it shall become void.
      (2)   A card showing the permit number will be issued with each permit.
This card shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the site of the work, from
the commencement thereof and until such time as the work is completed. In case
of an emergency, the person making a cut shall be required to take out a permit
on the first day that the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office is open following the
making of a cut and the permit, when issued, shall be effective retroactive to
the date the excavation was started.
      (3)   A permit shall be required for any work or construction by a public
utility doing business in the town, which utility is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, but the permit fee shall be
waived.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 7)
   (B)   No other permit issued, pursuant to any other ordinances of the town,
shall be construed to be a substitute for the permit required under this
subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 8)
   (C)   Any person desiring to make an opening or excavation contemplated by
this subchapter shall pay to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer for the permit required
the sum of $25. The permit issued by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, as herein
provided, shall continue in full force and effect for period of six months from
the time of its issuance and shall be renewable at the discretion of the Board
of Trustees.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 9)
(Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
151.99
§ 151.21 BOND REQUIRED.
   At the time of making the request, under the provisions of §
151.20(C) of this chapter, the person desiring to make any opening or
excavation shall also file a bond, payable to the town, in such an amount as
the Town Council may designate. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer and shall be conditioned to save the town harmless from any loss,
cost or damage by reason of such proposed work, and that the same shall be done
in all respects in conformity with the requirements of this code and all other
ordinances of the town regulating the same; provided that, a single or
continuing bond may be given to embrace all work of the petitioner for a period
of time between the date of the execution of the same and January 1, which bond
shall be in the penal sum as determined by said Council; provided further,
however, that, any public utility, operating under the jurisdiction of the
Public Service Commission of the state may give an indemnifying agreement in
lieu of said bond.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 10) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.22 BACKFILLING AND REPAVING.
   Whereas, the Town Council deems it necessary to establish a firm policy for
backfilling of excavations and replacement of pavement disturbed as a result of
making an opening or excavation in any street, these specifications are set
forth and the compliance therewith shall be a requirement of obtaining a permit
for said opening or excavation; it shall be the obligation of any person
obtaining a permit for an opening or excavation in the public right-of-way to
backfill the excavation and replace the pavement as set forth in these
specifications.
   (A)   Backfill. All excavations under pavement shall be backfilled with a
reasonably clean granular material with good compaction qualities. The material
shall be replaced in layers not to exceed six inches in depth. Each layer shall
be thoroughly tamped with a vibratory type mechanical tamper. Special care
shall be taken in filling around sewers, water pipes, gas lines and the like to
keep the earth at the same height on both sides to avoid shifting of the pipe
line. No removed paving materials or debris shall be used in backfilling the
excavation. Excavations not under a pavement shall be backfilled with virgin
material removed from the excavation by approval of the Town Council or its
designated representatives.
   (B)   Pavement replacer. All pavement shall be replaced with a type of
construction equal to or better than that which is removed as approved by the
town’s Street Commissioner. All cuts in concrete pavements shall be first
outlined with a saw cut not less than one inch to one and one-half inches.
   (C)   Concrete or brick pavements.
      (1)   Concrete used in the replacement of concrete or brick pavements not
presently surfaced with an asphaltic material shall consist of not less than
six bags of air-entrained, Type I-A, portland cement per cubic yard. Slump
shall not exceed three inches. Course aggregate shall be limestone or blast
furnace slag. No natural gravel aggregate will be allowed. Brick pavements will
be replaced with eight inches of concrete, except in some residential streets
where the town may require the brick to be replaced.
      (2)   Where concrete that has an asphaltic concrete surface is replaced,
Type I, portland cement shall be used, and the concrete shall be finished flush
with the surface of the existing concrete and the asphaltic surface replaced.
   (D)   Hot asphaltic concrete, sheet asphalt, emulsified asphalt, chip and
seals and oil mat pavements. All asphaltic and oil type pavements shall be
replaced with a hot asphaltic concrete surface conforming to Section D-3 Hot
Asphaltic Concrete Base, Binder and Surface of the latest Indiana State Highway
Standard Specifications. The thickness of the pavement shall be equal to that
which existed, but not less than three inches. Not less than eight inches of
coarse aggregate, Class A or B, Size No. 53, Section K-3, or the state highway
specifications, shall be placed under any asphaltic concrete patch unless a
concrete base is necessary. Asphalt placed under a concrete patch shall be cut
back six inches around the concrete patch so that the two joints are offset.
   (E)   Temporary patch. It if is not possible, due to weather conditions, for
the contractor to replace the pavement within 14 days following completion of
the work, a coarse aggregate base eight inches thick and a cold asphaltic
surface shall be applied and maintained as a temporary patch until pavement
repairs can be made. In no case shall a temporary patch be maintained more than
six months before permanent repairs are made.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 11) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE TO CONTINUE FOR ONE YEAR.
   The Town Council shall require periodic inspections of all pavement repairs.
If for any reason, within a period of one year, there is an indication of
settlement of the repaired area or deterioration of the paving materials, the
person taking out the permit shall be required to make the necessary repairs as
specified by the town. The failure of the permittee to make such repairs will
result in the bonding company being required to make the necessary repairs.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 12) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.24 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE OR DENY PERMITS.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council, upon the filing of a petition and
approved bond, to issue to the petitioner a permit to make such excavation and
do such work, and such permit shall describe the kind and location of the same;
provided, however, the Town Council shall also have the authority to refuse to
issue a permit for an excavation where the Council deems the work not to be in
the best public interest or the contractor, by past performances, has indicated
that he or she cannot perform the work in accordance with the specifications.
The Town Council may, by resolution duly passed by a majority of such Council,
authorize and empower its designated representative to issue any permits, all
as provided for in this subchapter and to determine the amount of the bond
required.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 13) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.25 MAINS AND PIPES; LOCATION; SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council, in connection with all work
contemplated by this subchapter, through its duly authorized agents, to assist
in determining the proper location for water and sewer or other connections to
be made.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 14) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.26 NOTICE OF COMPLETION.
   Within 48 hours after the work requiring the excavation have been properly
completed, the person holding the permit, under the provisions of this
subchapter, shall give notice to the Town Council or its designated agent that
the opening has been filled and pavement replaced.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 15) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.27 TUNNELING.
   In all cases of excavating under street or railway tracts, tunneling may be
permitted if the method and operation is approved by the Town Council.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 16) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -)
§ 151.28 BARRICADES AND DANGER LIGHTS.
   All the proper barricades and danger lights shall be maintained by the party
to whom the permit was issued under the provisions of this subchapter, until
the opening has been repaired.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 17) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 PROTECTION OF SIDES; INJURY TO ADJOINING PAVEMENTS.
   Any person making excavations, or causing the same to be made in pavements
or adjacent to pavement, shall so protect the sides of the excavation that the
adjoining soil shall not cave in. It shall be unlawful for any person to
excavate so as to undermine or injure any adjoining pavements.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 1) (Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a
(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PETITIONER. Any person who makes “a request” for a permit, pursuant to the
provisions hereof.
   SIDEWALK. Any sidewalk located within the corporate limits of the town; any
of which is under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   TOWN. The Town of Topeka, Indiana.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.41 PURPOSES OF SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks are beneficial to the town community in that they provide:
   (A)   Protection of children walking to and from schools and playgrounds;
   (B)   Adult pedestrian access to shopping areas, leisure walking and the
like;
   (C)   Play areas for children; and
   (D)   Aid to postal, newspaper and other door-to-door deliveries.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.42 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   It is agreed that widths, grades, specifications of materials and methods of
sidewalk construction are to be determined by the Town Engineer.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.43 LOCATION.
   Sidewalks shall be located on all major streets. Sidewalk construction is
either unfeasible or unnecessary on certain major and local streets or portions
thereof. From time to time, it may become necessary to determine where said
sidewalks shall be located, which shall be the duty of the Town Engineer,
subject to the approval of the Town Council thereof.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.44 FINANCING.
   (A)   Property owners shall be responsible for the construction and
maintenance of sidewalks located on their property or on the right-of-way
adjacent to their property and the streets of said town. If approved by the
Town Council, the property owner and town may enter an agreement whereby the
town shall cause the sidewalk to be built or repaired and the cost of same
shall be paid by the property owner with interest in five installments over a
four-year period. Such agreement shall provide for a lien in the name of the
town and the required performance between the parties.
   (B)   Effective 1-1-1997 all unpaid assessments for the construction of
sidewalks in the town shall bear interest at the rate of 5.5% per annum on the
unpaid balance. All parties to whom said assessments have been made shall be
responsible on each annual payment date for paying all interest which has
accrued to such date.
   (C)   Any payments which are not made when due shall, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-
37-20 result in all balances due and owing, plus interest, become due
immediately, and pursuant to I.C. 36-9-37-20 all delinquencies, penalties and
interest, as provided at I.C. 36-9-37-1 et seq., shall follow and proper notice
be recorded as a lien in the proper office of the county and said lien shall be
enforced and collected by the County Treasurer in the same way that delinquent
property taxes are collected.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.45 IMPLEMENTATION.
   A sidewalk construction program can be implemented by the following:
   (A)   Filing a petition of a majority of owners demanding or requiring the
construction of a sidewalk; and
   (B)   The Town Council can require and order the replacement of existing
hazardous sidewalks.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.46 FAILURE OF OWNER TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises shall neglect, refuse or
fail to build, rebuild or repair any sidewalk, after notice shall have been
given as herein provided, within the time and in the manner as the Town Council
shall require, the town shall cause the sidewalk to be so built, rebuilt or
repaired, and the expense incurred thereby, together with a penalty of 10% of
the expenses in addition thereto, shall be collected by special assessment
levied upon the lot or premises adjacent to or abutting upon, the sidewalk,
according to law.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.47 GRADE ESTABLISHMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Engineer, whenever requested in writing by
two or more freeholders residing on the line of any street in the town, to
establish the grade for the sidewalk on said street, and no sidewalk shall be
constructed within the town unless the grade thereof and other specifications
have been established by the direction of the Town Engineer.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 8) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.48 ICE, SNOW OR DEBRIS.
   The removal of snow and ice from sidewalks, drives and private property
shall be as follows.
   (A)   The owner and/or occupant of any dwelling, building or subdivided lot
or property shall keep the sidewalks in front thereof clean at all times of the
year. Within 24 hours after any fall of snow, snowfall event or formation of
ice, such snow or ice shall be removed from the sidewalks.
   (B)   Where the owner and/or occupant of any property shall fail or refuse
to remove any snow from the sidewalk as required within the prescribed period
of time, the town may remove such snow, and the cost of such removal shall be
assessed to the property owner additional to any applicable fines as prescribed
by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, push or deposit in any
manner snow, slush or ice from any drive or private property onto any street or
sidewalk in such a manner as to impede the safe progress and movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Persons who violate this section are responsible for the costs
incurred by the town to remove the impediment to safe progress and movement of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (E)   If a person, or persons, living at any property affected by this
section should be unable physically to comply herewith, they may apply to the
Town Council for assistance. After a hearing concerning the nature of this
physical problem, the Town Council will decide if and to what extent assistance
shall be granted.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 9) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.49 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR IMPROVE.
   Whenever a sidewalk needs to be constructed, repaired and/or improved, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the affected property owner and/or owners in
writing, by certified mail, return receipt, or by personal service by the Town
Marshal, giving said property owner and/or owners 180 days in which to comply
with said notice to construct, repair and/or improve said sidewalk and/or
sidewalks.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 10) (Ord. III-A-3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992;
Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any action in violation of §
151.01 of this chapter, be it construction, personal or otherwise, shall be
deemed unlawful, and will submit the violator thereof to a fine consistent with
a Class A infraction for each day that said activity occurs, or illegally
placed or performed activity not be removed and the site returned to normal,
and shall include all costs of collection and attorney’s fees.
   (C)   Any person violating §§
151.15 through
151.29 of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be fined in the sum of $100, for
each offense, payable to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. Said person shall also
indemnify and hold harmless the town from and against any and all claims,
damages, costs, liabilities and expenses, including without limitation, damages
to persons or property.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 12, § 19)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.49 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorney’s
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   However, if the violation is neglect, refusal or failure to build,
rebuild or repair a sidewalk, and the violator builds, rebuilds or repairs the
sidewalk within 30 days of conviction, the fine imposed shall be refunded and/
or waived. Further, if the violation is the neglect, refusal or failure to
remove snow, ice, filth or other nuisance or encumbrance from a sidewalk, and
the violator removes the snow, ice, filth, nuisance or encumbrance from the
sidewalk within 48 hours of conviction, the fine imposed shall be refunded and/
or waived.
      (3)   Sections
151.40 through
151.49 of this chapter may be enforced by the Town Attorney or his or her
designee in any court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 11)
   (E)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of §
151.48 of this chapter and any person violating the provisions of §
151.48 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100.
      (2)   The involved property owner shall further pay any all reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of collection attributed to enforcement of §§
151.40 through
151.49 of this chapter and snow removal. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 9)
(Ord. V-C-2-a(1), passed - -; Ord. V-C-2-a(2)/1983-5-2, passed - -; Ord. III-A-
3-a/1992-7-27, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. III-A-3-a(1), passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
2011-4-25(A), passed 4-25-2011; Ord. 2018-04-23(A), passed 4-23-2018)
CHAPTER 152: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Trimming Trees and Shrubs
   
152.01   Maintenance; responsibility
   
152.02   Shade trees
   
152.03   Notification
   
152.04   Index of trees
   
152.05   Lien
   
152.06   Replanting; fee
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 151
TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 152.01 MAINTENANCE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The maintenance of trees and shrubs located upon a right-of-way is, and
shall remain, the duty of the owner of the adjacent property.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 1) (Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a
(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord. passed 7-13-1998)
§ 152.02 SHADE TREES.
   All shade trees within the town or near any public street or alley in said
town, shall be kept trimmed so that the lowest branch of each tree shall be at
a distance from the level of the street or alley along which such tree or trees
of not less than eight feet and that the owner or owners of the land on which
such trees stand shall be and they are hereby required to keep such trees so
trimmed to comply with this subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 2) (Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a
(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord. passed 7-13-1998)
§ 152.03 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Should any person whose land abuts any street or alley in said town
fail to trim his or her trees so as to cause same to comply with this
subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Marshal of said town, upon approval of
the Town Council so to do, to notify the owner to at once trim up such tree or
trees to comply herewith, that should such owner fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such notice within ten days from time of receiving same, that such
Marshal shall have, and he or she hereby is granted authority to trim such
trees as to cause same to comply with this subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 3)
   (B)   Whenever any property owner of the town shall become aware of an
unsafe condition caused by a tree or shrub located upon the right-of-way of the
town, said property owner should notify the town immediately in order that the
town can take corrective action by the removal of said dangerous condition.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 4)
(Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord.
passed 7-13-1998)
§ 152.04 INDEX OF TREES.
   The town shall establish an index of trees which property owners have
requested to be trimmed or removed for cosmetic or maintenance reasons, and to
the extent possible, budgeting funds for the removal of said trees based upon a
need basis as established by a priority list prepared by the Town Street
Superintendent and/or Town Manager, and at the discretion of the Town Council.
Each property owner shall be responsible for 50% of the cost of maintaining or
removing of said tree or shrub, and the Town Council shall pay the remaining
50% of the costs incurred in maintaining or removing said tree or shrub.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 5) (Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a
(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord. passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 2018-10-8(D), passed 10-8-
2018)
§ 152.05 LIEN.
   The moneys advanced by the Town Council shall become a lien upon the real
estate and shall be assessed and collectible as are property taxes of the
subject land owner.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 6) (Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a
(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord. passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 2018-10-8(D), passed 10-8-
2018)
§ 152.06 REPLANTING; FEE.
   (A)   All replanting made as a result of trees removed under this subchapter
shall be chosen by the Street Superintendent and/or Town Manager.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 7)
   (B)   The town will pay up to $300 for each tree replanted, with the
remainder to be paid by the property owner.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 7, § 8)
(Ord. III-D-1-a(1), passed - -; Ord. III-D-2-a(3), passed 11- -1994; Ord.
passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 2018-10-8(D), passed 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.12   Interpretation
   
153.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.14   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
Administration
   
153.25   Administrator
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.43   Critical facility
   
153.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways and fringes
   
153.47   Standards for flood-prone areas
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state’s legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4, granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § A) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § B) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4011 through 4138.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § C) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § D) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves arc usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown, mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system,
has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain chapters for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood-control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which, the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPC). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak, flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after 6-1-1997 will include
ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADES. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFEP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two-fold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGYD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter “A” is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that stalled
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Any thing which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE
FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town
are generally identified as such on the LaGrange County, Indiana, and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, dated 11-20-2013, as well as future updates, amendments or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated LaGrange County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be annexed
into the town are generally identified as such on the LaGrange County, Indiana,
and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-20-2013, as well as future updates,
amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code requirements or any, alteration of a
“historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and G.)
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 2) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-2006;
Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § A) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of LaGrange
County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas dated 11-20-2013, as well as future
updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-20-2013 as
well as future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on the
LaGrange County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and dated 11-20-2013 as
well as future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date shall be according to the
best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural Resources;
provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater than one
square mile.
   (D)   In the absence of a published FEMA map or absence of identification on
a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of any
watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § B) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § C) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § D) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § E) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   (1)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is
above the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA
and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
      (2)   The property owner should be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § F) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § G) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (C)   Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of
the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources or the state for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § H) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.14 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a “repetitive loss structure”, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that
the building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-
related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of
the event for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing
the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value
of the building at the time of each such flood event.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § J) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby appoints the Town Manager to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § A)
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.44 and
153.46 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
         (e)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain
Coordinator prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
copies of such notifications to FEMA;
         (f)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
         (g)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or
Physical Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA
maps of the community;
         (h)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (i)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.26 of this chapter;
         (j)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
153.26 of this chapter;
         (k)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (l)   Stop-work orders:
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure
or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately cease; and
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (m)   1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or
approval, issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has
been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
         (n)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized town officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § C)
(Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor or flood-
proofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When flood-proofing is
utilized for a particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall
review the lowest floor and flood-proofing elevation survey data submitted.)
The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any
further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order
for the project.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § B) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.27 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
of transport of the flood waters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances. Variances shall only be issued when there
is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
         (a)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to
§§
153.44 and
153.46 of this chapter may be granted.
         (b)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.44 and
153.46 of this chapter will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
         (c)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.41 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (e)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration
of any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
         (f)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the
cost of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See division (E) below.)
         (g)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency or the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See
division (E) below.)
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an “historic structure” and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 6) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-2006;
Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water-proofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1:1) due to the fill or structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain; provided that, the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of flood water, but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this chapter.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § A) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
153.40 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
and
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all A Zones may be flood- proofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
153.42 of this chapter.
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions;
         (d)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (e)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (f)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (g)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade; and
         (h)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the PPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected, against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § B) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § C) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available.
   (B)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest
floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into flood waters.
   (C)   Access routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § D) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
153.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non- substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this subchapter have
been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the
permit for construction in a floodway issued by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any)
shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § E) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   (A)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § F) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS AND FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been
met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § G) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per this subchapter.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § H) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the town. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § I) (Ord. 2006-11-27-A, passed 11-27-
2006; Ord. 2013-7-22(a), passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
154.01   Definition
   
154.02   Prohibitions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITION.
   A MOBILE DWELLING UNIT shall mean living quarters such as a mobile home,
house trailers, truck bodies, bus bodies, railroad cars, shacks and any
improved shelter which can be carried, transported or towed from one place to
another without the use of regular house moving equipment; that use for living
quarters shall include such acts as sleeping, preparing meals, bathing, dish
washing, laundering clothing or any other activity which generates waste
materials.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 13, § 1) (Ord. II-B-2-b(1), passed - -)
§ 154.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to occupy, maintain or permit to be occupied or
maintained within the corporate limits of the town, any mobile dwelling unit as
defined in this chapter; provided that, this prohibition shall not apply to
such mobile dwelling units as have heretofore been lawfully installed under
existing laws and ordinances at the time such mobile dwelling units were
located; but no such mobile dwelling units were located; but no such mobile
dwelling unit shall be moved to a new location, nor enlarged; and, provided
further that, such prohibition shall not apply to exceptions otherwise
established in this chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to the following
situations:
      (1)   To a house trailer and mobile home situated in a legally
established mobile home park operating under license of, and approved by the
state’s Board of Health; provided further that, said mobile home park also meet
the minimum standards set out in the Federal Housing Administration’s Minimum
Property Standards for Mobile Home Courts, August 1962 revision and amendments
thereto, as well as U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare - Public
Health Service, Recommended Ordinance Governing Mobile Home Parks, as revised
January 1968;
      (2)   One house trailer may be occupied by the owner and family as
temporary living quarters for a period not exceeding 14 days in any one
calendar year;
      (3)   A temporary permit may be issued for use as living quarters for the
owner on the site while erecting a permanent dwelling, but for not to exceed a
total period of 180 days;
      (4)   One house trailer may be parked on the rear of residential or
commercial lot, but not used for living quarters or occupied in any way;
provided that, said lot have a minimum size of 10,000 square feet; and
      (5)   Stock of unoccupied mobile homes may be stored upon any lot where
the same are kept for sale in the ordinary course of business.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 13, § 2) (Ord. II-B-2-b(1), passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorney’s fees and costs of collection. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2013 Code, Title V, Ch. 13, § 3) (Ord. II-B-2-b(1), passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts as an ordinance the Permit Procedures and
Standards, as prepared by Dodzik Engineering, Inc., dated July 2005.
   (B)   The Permit Procedures and Standards shall be accepted as final and
incorporated as part of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control
Regulations, as amended, and as they are to be applied to the corporate limits
of the town.
   (C)   The Permit Procedures and Standards, as prepared by Dodzik
Engineering, Inc., dated July 2005, is available for review in the Town
Manager’s and Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 8)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   REZONINGS
      
III.   STREETS, REAL ESTATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
IV.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VI.   IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES AND CONSTRUCTION
      
VII.   FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
V-C-2-b          6-3-1985    Entering into a contract with Northern Indiana
                             Public Service Company for street lighting
                           (2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 3, § 1)
                             Entering into a contract with Northern Indiana
1991-10-7        10-7-1991   Public Service Company for electrical service
                             purchase for the sewage treatment plant
                           (2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 3, § 2)
2014-9-8         9-8-2014    Entering into an interlocal cooperation agreement
                             with the Topeka Area Historical Society
2017-03-27(A)    3-27-2017   Terminating the lease agreement with DS Corp
R. 2018-03-26(E) 3-26-2018   Adopting, amending and restating an agreement with
                             the Aim Medical Trust
R. 2020-2        3-23-2020   Terminating rental agreement with Topeka Water
                             Utility
R. 2020-4        3-23-2020   Terminating rental agreement with Topeka Sewer
                             Utility
                            
 
TABLE II: REZONINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
II-B-2-a(1)   - -         Rezoning certain real estate to B-4
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 1)
II-B-2-a(2)   - -         Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to B-
                          4 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 2)
II-B-2-a(3)   6-10-1983   Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to I-
                          2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 3)
II-B-2-a(4)   7-11-1983   Rezoning certain real estate (excepting two parcels)
                          from U-1 District to B-4 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 4)
II-B-2-a(5)   7-11-1983   Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to I-
                          2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 5)
II-B-2-a(6)   8-22-1983   Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to B-
                          3 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 6)
II-B-2-a(7)   4-7-1986    Rezoning certain real estate from B-3 and U-
                          1 Districts to I-2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 7)
II-B-2-a(8)   4-7-1986    Rezoning certain real estate from S-1, B-3 and U-
                          1 Districts to I-2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 8)
II-B-2-a-(9)  11-6-1989   Rezoning certain real estate from I-2 District to U-
                          2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 10)
II-B-2-b-6    3-5-1990    Rezoning certain real estate (excepting one tract)
                          from U-1 District to B-2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 9)
2000-3-27-A   3-21-2000   Rezoning certain real estate from A-1 District to I-
                          2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 11)
2002-10-28    10-15-2002  Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to B-
                          2 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 12)
2006-11-27-B  11-27-2006  Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to B-
                          4 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 13)
2006-12-18-B  12-18-2006  Rezoning certain real estate from U-1 District to B-
                          4 District
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 14)
R. 2015-3-23  3-23-2015   Rezoning certain real estate from A-1 District to I-
                          2 District
2015-9-14(B)  9-14-2015   Rezoning certain real estate from A-1 District to I-
                          2 District
                         
 
TABLE III: STREETS, REAL ESTATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
-                - -         Naming a roadway built in the western industrial
                             area to be known as Rainbow Drive
                           (2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 16)
II-C-1-a         11-14-1994  Entering into an encroachment agreement with R.
                             and D. Kauffman
                           (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 10)
1995-6-26        6-26-1995   Vacating a certain public way
                           (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 11, § 2)
I-F-4-b(2)       2-23-1998   Vacating an alley located between Indiana Street
                             and Pine Street
                           (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 11, § 1)
                             Setting restrictions for the public use of the
IV-A-1(a)4       9-8-2003    fire station and the community room and certain
                             Fire Department equipment and furniture
                           (2013 Code, Title IX, Ch. 4)
                             Establishing Fought Avenue (currently known as
2005-7-25-C      7-7-2005    C.R. 700 West, from C.R. 700 South in a southerly
                             direction to the edge of the town limits)
                           (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 7)
2012-3-12-B      3-12-2012   Naming streets and assigning addresses to certain
                             parties affected by the West Lake Street Project
                           (2013 Code, Title IV, Ch. 3)
2016-1-11        1-11-2016   Creating North and South Pleasant Avenues
R. 2018-8-13-(B) 8-13-2018   Indicating interest in purchasing land with a
                             total price greater than $25,000
2020-4           - -         Confirming the Topeka town limits
2020-9A          11-9-2020   Accepting Todd Street, Zook Street, South Babcock
                             Street, and Crossfire Drive into the town
                            
 
TABLE IV: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
R. 2014-4-28     4-28-2014   Approving an economic development plan
R. 2014-9-22     9-22-2014   Approving an economic development plan
R. 2014-10-27    10-27-2014  Designating specific property as an economic
                             revitalization area
R. 2014-11-10    11-10-2014  Amendment; enlarging the economic development area
                             for the purpose of tax increment financing
R. 2014-12-22(C) 12-22-2014  Designating specific property as an economic
                             revitalization area
R. 2015-4-13-A   4-13-2015   Amendment; clarifying existing allocations and
                             establishing a new allocation provision
R. 2015-4-28     4-28-2015   Approving an economic development plan
R. 2015-05-18    5-18-2015   Amendment; clarifying existing allocations and
                             establishing a new allocation provision
R. 2015-06-01    6-1-2015    Correcting a scrivener’s error
R. 2015-15-6-29  6-29-2015   Amendment; enlarging the economic development area
                             for the purpose of tax increment financing
R. 2015-8-31B    8-31-2015   Approving an economic development plan
R. 2015-10-12    10-12-2015  Amendment; enlarging the economic development area
                             for the purpose of tax increment financing
R. 2016-6-27B    6-27-2016   Designating specific property as an economic
                             revitalization area
R. 2017-5-22     5-22-2017   Designating specific property as an economic
                             revitalization area
R. 2017-10-9(a)  10-9-2017   Designating specific property as an economic
                             revitalization area
2018-04-09       4-9-2018    Allocating certified distributions for economic
                             development purposes
R. 2021-36       10-11-2021  Preliminary resolution establishing a residential
                             TIF district
R. 5-9-2022      5-9-2022    Preliminary resolution establishing a residential
                             TIF district
                             Approving the economic development plan and
R. 5-9-22(B)     5-9-2022    establishing a new allocation provision for the
                             purpose of tax increment financing
                             Approving resolution establishing a residential
R. 6-13-22       6-13-2022   TIF district and establishing a residential
                             housing program
R. 6-13-22(B)    6-13-2022   Approving residential housing development plan and
                             creation of a residential TIF district
                            
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
II-B-1-a(1)   - -         Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 1)
II-B-1-a(2)   - -         Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 2)
II-B-1-a(3)   - -         Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 3)
II-B-1-a(4)   4-17-1989   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 4)
II-B-1-a(5)   4-17-1989   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 5)
2000-8-14(A)  8-14-2000   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 6)
2001-9-24     9-24-2001   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 7)
2002-8-12     8-12-2002   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 8)
2007-3-12-A   4-23-2007   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 9)
2012-6-28     9-10-2012   Annexing certain territory
                        (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 10)
2015-4-13     4-13-2015   Annexing certain territory (containing 10.29 acres,
                          more or less) into the town
R. 2015-4-13  4-13-2015   Adopting a fiscal plan for newly annexed territory
2015-4-28     4-28-2015   Annexing certain territory (containing 10.29 acres,
                          more or less) into the town
                         
 
TABLE VI: IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES AND CONSTRUCTION
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res.  Date   Description
No.        Passed
2007-4-9-A 4-9-   Supplying water and sewer services and police and fire protection to newly
           2007   annexed area
                (2013 Code, Title VIII, Ch. 6)
R. 2017-   4-28-  Establishing an underground and buried utility district
04-28      2017
R.         2-10-  Declaring official intent to be reimbursed for costs and expenditures
2020.02.10 2020   contributed to the sewer facilities and infrastructure project and financing
(A)               from bond proceeds
R. 2020-   5-26-  Acceptance of the preliminary engineering report (PER) for water treatment
10-A    2020   plant improvements (DWSRF)
R. 2020-   5-26-  Acceptance of the preliminary engineering report (PER) for wastewater
11-A    2020   improvements (WWSRF)
2021-13    2-22-  Authorizing improvements and extensions to the town’s waterworks, issuance
           2021   and sale of revenue bonds to provide funds, and related matters
R. 2024-   10-14- Pledging funds for proposed projects of East Park, Topeka Trail - Hawpath
10-14      2024   Trail Connector, Downtown Gathering and Event Space, and Downtown Master
                  Plan improvements through Stellar Pathways Program
                 
 
TABLE VII: FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
I-F-1-a(1)    - -         Topeka Promotional Account
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 7)
I-F-1-b(1)    - -         Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 13)
I-F-1-b(2)    - -         Cumulative Fire Building and Sinking Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 10)
I-F-1-b(3)    3-1-1982    Cumulative Building and Sinking Fund for Municipal
                          Sewers
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 8)
I-F-1-b(4)    8-6-1984    Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 9)
I-F-1-b(5)    3-2-1987    Amendment; Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 9)
I-F-1-b(6)    3-2-1987    Amendment; Cumulative Fire Building and Sinking Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 10)
I-F-1-b(7)    8-3-1987    Amendment; Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 9)
1993-5-10     5-10-1993   Amendment; Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 9)
1993-8-13(A)  9-13-1993   Parks Department Donation Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 12)
1993-8-13(c)  9-13-1993   Police Reserve Donation Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 15)
1993-8-13-(D) 9-13-1993   Emergency Medical Technicians Donation Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 16)
1993-10-25-A  10-25-1993  Petty Cash Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 11)
I-F-1-b(15)   7-12-1999   Fire Department Donation Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 17)
2001-9-24c    9-25-2001   Amendment; Utilities Cash Change Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 20)
I-F-1-b(17)   8-11-2003   Utilities Cash Change Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 20)
2006-7-24-B   7-24-2006   Rainy Day Fund
                        (2013 Code, Title II, Ch. 21)
2018-14-5(A)  5-14-2018   Community Crossings Grant Fund
2020-9        10-26-2020  Providing for reimbursement of public health and
                          safety payroll costs with CARES Act Funding
2020-10       10-26-2020  Establishing Fund 150, COVID/CARES Provider Relief
                          Fund
R. 2020-5     5-26-2020   Transferring dormant fund; Fund 710 Levy Excess Fund
                          transferred to Fund 101 General
R. 2020-6-A   4-27-2020   Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) Loan
                          Program signatory authorization
R. 2020-7-A   4-27-2020   Wastewater State Revolving Fund (WWSRF) Loan Program
                          signatory authorization
R. 2020-8     5-11-2020   Authorizing application submission and local match
                          commitment
R. 2020-16    10-12-2020  Reducing funds, Cum Fire (Fund 426) and Cum Sewer
                          (Fund 429)
R. 2021-24    4-12-2021   Creating the 2021 Water Works Construction Account
                          Terminating the Wastewater Bond and Interest Account
R. 2021-25    4-26-2021   (Fund 609) and transferring its monies to the
                          Wastewater Utility Account (Fund 606)
                          Terminating the Wastewater Bond and Interest Account
R. 2021-27    4-26-2021   (Fund 609) and transferring its monies to the
                          Wastewater Utility Account (Fund 606)
2021-17       5-10-2021   Adding the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
2021-20       7-26-2021   Establishing the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal
                          Recovery Fund
2022-12-12(B) 12-12-2022  Establishing Funds 2256 (unrestricted) and 2257
                          (restricted), Opiod Settlement Funds
2023-06-26    6-26-2023   Establishing a General Fund Account for promoting the
                          town
2023-8-14     8-14-2023   Amending the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery
                          Fund
2024-10-14    10-14-2024  Creating a promotional account to replace the Welcome
                          to Topeka sign
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2013 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section         Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
3-8-5-1 et seq.      30.02
3-8-5-10             30.02
3-13-9-4             30.30
4-21.5-3-7           150.24
                     32.15;
                     32.18;
5-3-1                32.19;
                     32.20;
                     34.06
5-11-1-27(j)         34.04
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.   34.10
5-14-3 et seq.       34.08
5-14-3-1 et seq.     32.20
5-14-3-3             34.08
5-14-3-8             34.08
5-22                 32.01;
                     32.19
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.   34.06
6-1.1-12.1-1         34.06
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. 34.06
6-1.1-12.1-1(3)(B)   34.06
Chapter 9         70.09
9-13-2-1 et seq.     70.02 
9-13-2-94            70.01
9-21-1-1             70.01
9-21-1-2             70.01
9-21-1-3             70.01
9-21-1-4             70.01
9-21-1-5             70.01
9-21-4-3             70.01
9-22-1-1 et seq.     91.20
10-14-3-12           34.10
10-14-3-29           34.10
13-14-2-2            54.03
14-28-1              153.44
14-28-1-26           153.44
14-28-4              153.01
18-7-4-216(c)        30.34
22-9-1-4 et seq.     95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     95.01
22-9.5-2-2           95.02
22-9.5-2-3           95.02
22-9.5-2-4           95.01
22-9.5-2-8           95.02
22-9.5-2-9           95.02
22-9.5-2-11          95.02
22-9.5-2-13          95.02
22-9.5-3             95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.     95.10
22-9.5-4-8           95.11
22-9.5-5             95.01
22-9.5-5-1           95.03
22-9.5-6             95.02;
                     95.11
22-12                150.24
22-12-1-4            150.17
22-12-1-5            150.17
22-12-1-7            150.17
22-12-1-14           150.17
22-12-1-16           150.17
22-12-1-17           150.17
22-12-1-18           150.17
22-12-1-22(b)(12)    150.25
22-12-1-24           150.17
22-12-1-26           150.17
22-12-2-1 et seq.    150.02
22-12-7              150.19
22-13                150.24
22-13-2-3(b)         150.25
22-13-2-6            150.18
22-13-2-7            150.24
22-13-2-7(b)         150.25
22-13-2-9            150.18
22-13-2-11           150.19
22-14                150.24
22-15                150.24
22-15-3              150.22
22-15-4              150.18
25-1-1.1-1 et seq.   111.04
31-37-2              132.01
31-37-3              132.01
32-25-2-9            150.17
                     131.01;
32-30-8-1            131.02;
                     131.06;
                     131.08
33-36-3-1 et seq.    30.33
34-28-5-1 et seq.    72.04;
                     92.03
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)   52.99
36-1-5-4             150.25
36-1-6-1 et seq.     92.03
36-1-6-4             150.99
36-1-6-9             150.24
36-5-2-2             10.15
36-5-2-3             30.30
36-7-4               153.01
36-7-8-9             150.02
36-7-9               150.04;
                     150.99
36-7-9-2             150.04
36-7-9-25            131.01
36-8-2-4             91.20
36-8-12-17           33.03
36-8-17              150.23
36-9-23-1 et seq.    52.01
36-9-37-1 et seq.    151.44
36-9-37-20           151.44
36-10-2              30.31
36-10-3              30.31
36-10-5-2(b)(2)(C)   30.31
                     
 
REFERENCES TO 2013 CODE
2013 Code 2019 Code
2013 Code                    2019 Code
Title I, Ch. 1, § 7         10.17
Title I, Ch. 1, § 8         10.17
Title II, Ch. 1, § 1        150.15
Title II, Ch. 1, § 2        150.16
Title II, Ch. 1, § 3        150.17
Title II, Ch. 1, § 4        150.18
Title II, Ch. 1, § 5        150.19
Title II, Ch. 1, § 6        150.20
Title II, Ch. 1, § 7        150.21
Title II, Ch. 1, § 8        150.22
Title II, Ch. 1, § 9        150.22
Title II, Ch. 1, § 10       150.22
Title II, Ch. 1, § 11       150.22
Title II, Ch. 1, § 12       150.23
Title II, Ch. 1, § 13       150.23
Title II, Ch. 1, § 14       150.24
Title II, Ch. 1, § 15       150.24
Title II, Ch. 1, § 16       150.24
Title II, Ch. 1, § 17       150.99
Title II, Ch. 1, § 18       150.99
Title II, Ch. 1, § 19       150.24
Title II, Ch. 1, § 20       150.25
Title II, Ch. 1, § 21       150.25
Title II, Ch. 2              30.32;
                             150.01
Title II, Ch. 3              30.33;
                             150.02
Title II, Ch. 4              34.01;
                             150.03
Title II, Ch. 5              30.34
Title II, Ch. 6              33.01
Title II, Ch. 7              TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 8              TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 9              TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 10             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 11             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 12             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 13             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 15             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 16             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 17             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 20             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 21             TSO Table VII
Title II, Ch. 22             34.06
Title II, Ch. 23             30.15
Title II, Ch. 24             30.16
Title II, Ch. 25             33.02
Title II, Ch. 26             33.03
Title II, Ch. 27             33.04
Title II, Ch. 28             31.01
Title II, Ch. 29             31.01
Title II, Ch. 30             32.01
Title II, Ch. 31, § 1       32.15
Title II, Ch. 31, § 2       32.16
Title II, Ch. 31, § 3       32.17
Title II, Ch. 31, § 4       32.18
Title II, Ch. 31, § 5       32.19
Title II, Ch. 31, § 6       32.20
Title II, Ch. 31, § 7       32.21
Title II, Ch. 32, § 1       32.35
Title II, Ch. 32, § 2       32.36
Title II, Ch. 32, § 3       32.37
Title II, Ch. 32, § 4       32.38
Title II, Ch. 32, § 5       32.39
Title II, Ch. 32, § 6       32.40
Title II, Ch. 32, § 7       32.41
Title II, Ch. 32, § 8       32.42
Title II, Ch. 33             30.01
Title II, Ch. 34, § 1       33.15
Title II, Ch. 34, § 2       33.15
Title II, Ch. 34, § 3       33.15
Title II, Ch. 34, § 4       33.16
Title II, Ch. 34, § 5       33.17
Title II, Ch. 34, § 6       33.18
Title II, Ch. 34, § 7       33.19
Title II, Ch. 34, § 8       33.20
Title II, Ch. 34, § 9       33.21
Title II, Ch. 34, § 10      33.22
Title II, Ch. 34, § 11      33.23
Title II, Ch. 34, § 12      33.24
Title II, Ch. 34, § 13      33.25
Title II, Ch. 34, § 14      33.26
Title II, Ch. 35             30.30
Title II, Ch. 36             34.03
Title II, Ch. 37             31.01
Title II, Ch. 38             34.02
Title II, Ch. 39             31.01
Title III, Ch. 1, § 1       51.15
Title III, Ch. 1, § 2       51.16
Title III, Ch. 1, § 3       51.17
Title III, Ch. 1, § 4       51.18
Title III, Ch. 2             51.01
Title III, Ch. 3             51.02
Title III, Ch. 5             52.01
Title III, Ch. 7, § 1       52.35
Title III, Ch. 7, § 2       52.35
Title III, Ch. 7, § 3       52.36
Title III, Ch. 7, § 4       52.37
Title III, Ch. 7, § 5       52.38
Title III, Ch. 7, § 6       52.39
Title III, Ch. 7, § 7       52.40
Title III, Ch. 7, § 8       52.41
Title III, Ch. 7, § 9       52.99
Title III, Ch. 7, § 10      52.38
Title III, Ch. 8             52.02;
                             52.99
Title III, Ch. 9             52.03;
                             52.99
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 1        70.01
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 2        70.02 
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 3        70.03
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 4        Ch. 75, Schd. IV
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 5        Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 6        Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 7        Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 8        Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 9        Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 10       Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 11       Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 12       Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 13       Ch. 75, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 14       Ch. 75, Schd. III
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 15       Ch. 75, Schd. III
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 16       TSO Table III
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 17       70.04
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 18       70.05;
                             70.99
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 19       70.06;
                             70.99
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 20       70.07
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 21       70.08
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 22       Ch. 75, Schd. II
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 23       70.08
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 24       70.99
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 1        74.01
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 2        74.02;
                             74.99
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 3        74.03;
                             74.99
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 4        74.04
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 5        74.05
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 6        74.06
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 7        74.06
Title IV, Ch. 3              TSO Table III
Title IV, Ch. 4, § 1        71.01
                             71.02;
Title IV, Ch. 4, § 2        71.99;
                             Ch. 76, Schd. I
Title IV, Ch. 4, § 3        71.99
Title IV, Ch. 5, § 1        71.03;
                             71.99
Title IV, Ch. 6, § 1        71.04
Title IV, Ch. 6, § 2        71.99
Title IV, Ch. 6, § 3        71.99
Title IV, Ch. 7              71.05
Title IV, Ch. 8, § 1        72.01
Title IV, Ch. 8, § 2        72.02
Title IV, Ch. 8, § 3        72.03
Title IV, Ch. 8, § 4        72.99
Title IV, Ch. 8, § 5        72.04
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 1        73.01
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 2        73.02
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 3        73.03
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 4        73.03
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 5        73.04
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 6        73.04
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 7        73.05
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 8        73.06
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 9        73.07
Title IV, Ch. 9, § 10       73.99
Title V, Ch. 1, § 1         151.40
Title V, Ch. 1, § 2         151.41
Title V, Ch. 1, § 3         151.42
Title V, Ch. 1, § 4         151.43
Title V, Ch. 1, § 5         151.44
Title V, Ch. 1, § 6         151.45
Title V, Ch. 1, § 7         151.46
Title V, Ch. 1, § 8         151.47
Title V, Ch. 1, § 9         151.48;
                             151.99
Title V, Ch. 1, § 10        151.49
Title V, Ch. 1, § 11        151.99
Title V, Ch. 2, § 1         92.02
Title V, Ch. 2, § 2         92.02
Title V, Ch. 2, § 3         92.02
Title V, Ch. 2, § 4         92.02
Title V, Ch. 2, § 5         92.99
Title V, Ch. 3, § 1         91.07
Title V, Ch. 3, § 2         91.07
Title V, Ch. 3, § 3         91.07
Title V, Ch. 3, § 4         91.07
Title V, Ch. 3, § 5         91.07
Title V, Ch. 3, § 6         91.99
Title V, Ch. 3, § 7         91.07
Title V, Ch. 4               92.01
Title V, Ch. 5, § 1         132.01
Title V, Ch. 5, § 2         132.02
Title V, Ch. 5, § 3         132.03
Title V, Ch. 5, § 4         132.99
Title V, Ch. 5, § 5         132.04
Title V, Ch. 7, § 1         152.01
Title V, Ch. 7, § 2         152.02
Title V, Ch. 7, § 3         152.03 
Title V, Ch. 7, § 4         152.03 
Title V, Ch. 7, § 5         152.04
Title V, Ch. 7, § 6         152.05
Title V, Ch. 7, § 7         152.06
Title V, Ch. 7, § 8         152.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 1         91.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 2         91.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 3         91.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 4         91.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 5         91.06
Title V, Ch. 8, § 6         91.99
Title V, Ch. 10, § 1        93.15
Title V, Ch. 10, § 2        93.16
Title V, Ch. 10, § 3        93.17
Title V, Ch. 10, § 4        93.17
Title V, Ch. 10, § 5        93.18
Title V, Ch. 10, § 6        93.19
Title V, Ch. 10, § 7        93.99
Title V, Ch. 10, § 8        93.99
Title V, Ch. 11, § 1        94.01
Title V, Ch. 11, § 2        94.02
Title V, Ch. 11, § 3        94.03
Title V, Ch. 12, § 1        151.15
Title V, Ch. 12, § 2        151.16
Title V, Ch. 12, § 3        151.17
Title V, Ch. 12, § 4        151.17
Title V, Ch. 12, § 5        151.18
Title V, Ch. 12, § 6        151.19
Title V, Ch. 12, § 7        151.20
Title V, Ch. 12, § 8        151.20
Title V, Ch. 12, § 9        151.20
Title V, Ch. 12, § 10       151.21
Title V, Ch. 12, § 11       151.22
Title V, Ch. 12, § 12       151.23
Title V, Ch. 12, § 13       151.24
Title V, Ch. 12, § 14       151.25
Title V, Ch. 12, § 15       151.26
Title V, Ch. 12, § 16       151.27
Title V, Ch. 12, § 17       151.28
Title V, Ch. 12, § 18       151.29
Title V, Ch. 12, § 19       151.99
Title V, Ch. 13, § 1        154.01
Title V, Ch. 13, § 2        154.02
Title V, Ch. 13, § 3        154.99
Title V, Ch. 14, § 1        91.20
Title V, Ch. 14, § 2        91.21;
                             91.99
Title V, Ch. 14, § 3        91.22
Title V, Ch. 14, § 4        91.23
Title V, Ch. 14, § 5        91.24
Title V, Ch. 14, § 6        91.25
Title V, Ch. 14, § 7        91.26
Title V, Ch. 14, § 8        91.27
Title V, Ch. 14, § 9        91.28
Title V, Ch. 14, § 10       91.29
Title V, Ch. 14, § 11       91.29
Title V, Ch. 15, § 1        91.04;
                             91.99
Title V, Ch. 15, § 2        91.04
Title V, Ch. 15, § 4        91.04
Title V, Ch. 16              91.05
Title V, Ch. 17, § 1        93.03;
                             93.99
Title V, Ch. 18, § 1        93.02;
                             93.99
Title V, Ch. 20              90.03
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 1        91.03
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 2        91.03
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 3        91.99
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 4        91.99
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 1       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 2       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 3       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 4       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 5       92.99
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 6       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 7       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 8       92.03
Title VII, Ch. 3, § 9       92.99
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 1       91.01
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 2       91.01
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 3       91.01
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 4       91.99
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 5       91.99
Title VII, Ch. 4, § 6       91.01
Title VII, Ch. 5, § 1       91.02
Title VII, Ch. 5, § 2       91.99
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 1       131.01
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 2       131.02
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 3       131.03
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 4       131.04
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 5       131.05
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 6       131.06
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 7       131.07
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 8       131.07
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 9       131.08
Title VII, Ch. 8, § 10      131.99
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 1      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 2      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 3      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 4      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 5      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 6      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 7      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 8      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 9      TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 5, § 10     TSO Table V
Title VIII, Ch. 6            TSO Table VI
Title VIII, Ch. 7            TSO Table III
Title VIII, Ch. 8            155.01
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 1      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 2      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 3      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 4      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 5      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 6      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 7      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 8      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 9      TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 10     TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 11     TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 12     TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 13     TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 9, § 14     TSO Table II
Title VIII, Ch. 10           TSO Table III
Title VIII, Ch. 11, § 1     TSO Table III
Title VIII, Ch. 11, § 2     TSO Table III
Title IX, Ch. 3, § 1        TSO Table I
Title IX, Ch. 3, § 2        TSO Table I
Title IX, Ch. 4              TSO Table III
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § A153.01
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § B153.02
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § C153.03
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 1, § D153.04
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 2      153.05
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § A153.06
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § B153.07
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § C153.08
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § D153.09
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § E153.10
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § F153.11
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § G153.12
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § H153.13
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § I153.99
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 3, § J153.13
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § A153.25
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § C153.25
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 4, § B153.26
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § A153.40
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § B153.41
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § C153.42
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § D153.43
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § E153.44
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § F153.45
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § G153.46
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 5, § H153.47
Title IX, Ch. 5, Art. 6      153.27
                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed Code Section
1999-12-13-E  12-13-1999  51.15—
                          51.18
2014-4-28     4-28-2014   TSO Table IV
2014-9-22     9-22-2014   TSO Table IV
2014-10-27    10-27-2014  TSO Table IV
2014-11-10    11-10-2014  TSO Table IV
2014-12-22(C) 12-22-2014  TSO Table IV
2015-3-23     3-23-2015   TSO Table II
2015-4-13     4-13-2015   TSO Table V
2015-4-13-A   4-13-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-4-28     4-28-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-05-18    5-18-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-06-01    6-1-2015    TSO Table IV
2015-15-6-29  6-29-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-8-31B    8-31-2015   TSO Table IV
2015-9-28(B)  9-28-2015   90.02
2015-10-12    10-12-2015  TSO Table IV
2016-6-27B    6-27-2016   TSO Table IV
2017-04-28    4-28-2017   TSO Table VI
2017-5-22     5-22-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-10-9(a)  10-9-2017   TSO Table IV
2018-03-26(E) 3-26-2018   TSO Table I
2018-8-13-(B) 8-13-2018   TSO Table III
2020.02.10(A) 2-10-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-2        3-23-2020   TSO Table I
2020-4        3-23-2020   TSO Table I
2020-5        5-26-2020   TSO Table VII
2020-6-A      4-27-2020   TSO Table VII
2020-7-A      4-27-2020   TSO Table VII
2020-8        5-11-2020   TSO Table VII
2020-10-A     5-26-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-11-A     5-26-2020   TSO Table VI
2020-16       10-12-2020  TSO Table VII
2020-18       10-26-2020  31.01
2021-22       2-8-2021    34.09
2021-24       4-12-2021   TSO Table VII
2021-25       4-26-2021   TSO Table VII
2021-27       4-26-2021   TSO Table VII
2021-28       - -2021     34.10
2021-30       9-13-2021   34.10
2021-36       10-11-2021  TSO Table IV
2021-38       12-13-2021  34.11
5-9-2022      5-9-2022    TSO Table IV
5-9-22(B)     5-9-2022    TSO Table IV
6-13-22       6-13-2022   TSO Table IV
6-13-22(B)    6-13-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-7        7-11-2022   33.07
2024-10-14    10-14-2024  TSO Table VI
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                 Date Passed   Code Section
–                      - -           TSO Table III
I-B-1-a(3)               - -           30.33
I-C-3-b(1)               - -           30.34
I-C-3-b(2)               - -           30.34
I-C-3-b(3)               - -           30.34
I-F-1-a(1)               - -           TSO Table VII
I-F-1-b(1)               - -           TSO Table VII
I-F-1-b(2)               - -           TSO Table VII
I-F-2-a(1)               - -           33.02
I-F-2(B)(1)-(7)          - -           31.01
I-F-4-a(1)               - -           30.01
I-F-4-b(1)               - -           30.01
II-B-1-a(1)              - -           TSO Table V
II-B-1-a(2)              - -           TSO Table V
II-B-1-a(3)              - -           TSO Table V
II-B-2-a(1)              - -           TSO Table II
II-B-2-a(2)              - -           TSO Table II
                                       154.01;
II-B-2-b(1)              - -           154.02;
                                       154.99
                                       Title VII;
III-A-1-a(1)             - -           90.01;
                                       91.99
III-A-1-a(1)b            - -           130.03;
                                       130.99
                                       74.01—
III-A-1-a(3)             - -           74.06;
                                       74.99
                                       71.01;
III-A-1-a(5)             - -           71.02;
                                       71.99
III-A-1-a(12)            - -           Title VII
III-A-1-(a)(13)          - -           71.04;
                                       71.99
III-B-1-a(1)             - -           92.03;
                                       92.99
III-C-1-a(1)             - -           90.04;
                                       90.99
III-D-1-a(1)             - -           152.01—
                                       152.06
III-F-1-a(1)             - -           91.06;
                                       91.99
IV-A-1-a(1)              - -           110.01;
                                       110.99
IV-E-1-a(1)              - -           91.03;
                                       91.99
V-A-2-a(2)               - -           51.15—
                                       51.18
                                       52.35—
V-B-1-(a)5               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(1)               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(2)               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(3)               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(4)               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(5)               - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       52.35—
V-B-2-a(6)/2001-9-24     - -           52.41;
                                       52.99
                                       151.15—
V-C-2-a(1)               - -           151.29;
                                       151.99
                                       151.15—
V-C-2-a(2)/1983-5-2      - -           151.29;
                                       151.99
V-A-2-a(1)               11-6-1978     51.15—
                                       51.18
I-F-1-b(3)               3-1-1982      TSO Table VII
                                       52.15—
V-B-1-a(2)               2-7-1983      52.29;
                                       52.99
V-B-1-a(3)               2-7-1983      52.02
II-B-2-a(3)              6-10-1983     TSO Table II
II-B-2-a(4)              7-11-1983     TSO Table II
II-B-2-a(5)              7-11-1983     TSO Table II
II-B-2-a(6)              8-22-1983     TSO Table II
III-A-1-a(6)             8-22-1983     Title VII
V-B-1-a(4)               10-3-1983     52.01
I-F-1-c(1)               10-25-1983    34.06
I-C-2-a(2)               1-2-1984      30.32
III-B-1-a(4)             6-13-1984     91.01;
                                       91.99
I-F-1-b(4)               8-6-1984      TSO Table VII
                                       72.01—
III-A-1-d(7)             12-3-1984     72.04;
                                       72.99
                                       71.01;
III-A-1-a(7)             1-24-1985     71.02;
                                       71.99
V-C-2-b                  6-3-1985      TSO Table I
II-B-2-a(7)              4-7-1986      TSO Table II
II-B-2-a(8)              4-7-1986      TSO Table II
I-F-1-b(5)               3-2-1987      TSO Table VII
I-F-1-b(6)               3-2-1987      TSO Table VII
I-F-1-b(7)               8-3-1987      TSO Table VII
III-A-1-a(1)-a           8-3-1987      Title VII
III-B-1-a(2)             8-24-1987     92.02;
                                       92.99
V-A-2-a(5)               2-20-1989     51.15—
                                       51.18
II-B-1-a(4)              4-17-1989     TSO Table V
II-B-1-a(5)              4-17-1989     TSO Table V
II-B-2-a-(9)             11-6-1989     TSO Table II
V-A-2-a(4)               2-19-1990     51.01
II-B-2-b-6               3-5-1990      TSO Table II
1991-10-7                10-7-1991     TSO Table I
III-H-1-a                1-11-1992     94.01—
                                       94.03
I-F-1-a(2)               3-23-1992     33.01
I-F-2(c)                 3-23-1992     31.01
V-A-2-a(6)               4-1-1992      51.15—
                                       51.18
III-A-2-a                4-13-1992     130.04;
                                       130.99
I-F-4-b(2)               4-27-1992     30.01
                                       151.40—
III-A-3-a/1992-7-27      7-27-1992     151.49;
                                       151.99
I-B-1-A(2)               9-8-1992      30.33
                                       93.15—
III-G-1-a                10-26-1992    93.19;
                                       93.99
III-B-1-b                2-8-1993      92.02;
                                       92.99
1993-5-10                5-10-1993     TSO Table VII
I-F-1-a(3)               7-26-1993     33.04
III-A-1-a(8)             8-9-1993      71.05
II-A-3-b                 8-23-1993     91.05
1993-8-13(B)             9-13-1993     TSO Table VII
1993-8-13(c)             9-13-1993     TSO Table VII
1993-8-13-(D)            9-13-1993     TSO Table VII
V-A-2-a(7)               9-27-1993     51.02
1993-10-25-A             10-25-1993    TSO Table VII
I-B-1-a(4)               4-11-1994     34.01
III-A-1-a(8)             4-11-1994     Title VII
V-A-2-(a)(8)             5-23-1994     51.15—
                                       51.18
III-D-2-a(3)             11- -1994     152.01—
                                       152.06
II-C-1-a                 11-14-1994    TSO Table III
III-A-1-a(2)             4-10-1995     Title VII
I-F-2-a                  5-22-1995     30.16
1995-6-26                6-26-1995     TSO Table III
III-A-1-a(9)             8-14-1995     71.03;
                                       71.99
III-A-1-a(10)            1-26-1996     Title VII
1996-6-24-D              6-24-1996     92.02;
                                       92.99
                                       151.40—
III-A-3-a(1)             8-12-1996     151.49;
                                       151.99
III-B-1-a(5)             8-12-1996     91.02;
                                       91.99
III-A-1-a(11)            9-9-1996      Title VII
I-F-1-a(4)               2-10-1997     150.03
III-B-1-c                9-8-1997      92.01
I-F-4-b(2)               2-23-1998     TSO Table III
V-A-2-a(3)               3-7-1998      51.15—
                                       51.18
III-B-1-a(3)             6-6-1998      91.07;
                                       91.99
I-F-1-a(8)               6-8-1998      32.35—
                                       32.42
I-F-1-a(5)               6-9-1998      32.15—
                                       32.21
I-F-1-a(6)               6-22-1998     32.35—
                                       32.42
I-F-1-a(7)               6-22-1998     32.01
–                      7-13-1998     152.01—
                                       152.06
                                       132.01—
III-B-1-d                7-27-1998     132.04;
                                       132.99
I-F-1-b(15)              7-12-1999     TSO Table VII
III-E-1-a(2)             10-11-1999    130.02;
                                       130.99
2000-3-27-A              3-21-2000     TSO Table II
2000-8-14(A)             8-14-2000     TSO Table V
2001-9-24                9-24-2001     TSO Table V
2001-9-24c               9-25-2001     TSO Table VII
III-A-1-a(13)A           3-25-2002     Title VII
I-F-2-b(8)               5-29-2002     30.15
2002-8-12                8-12-2002     TSO Table V
III-A-1-a(13)            8-26-2002     Title VII
III-A-1-a(14)            9-23-2002     Title VII
III-A-1-a(15)            10-14-2002    Title VII
2002-10-28               10-15-2002    TSO Table II
                                       131.01—
III-I-1                  1-27-2003     131.08;
                                       131.99
III-A-1a(16)             2-24-2003     Title VII
III-B-1-a(6)             4-4-2003      130.01;
                                       130.99
I-F-1-a                  6-23-2003     33.15—
                                       33.26
I-F-5                    7-28-2003     31.01
I-F-1-b(17)              8-11-2003     TSO Table VII
IV-A-1(a)4               9-8-2003      TSO Table III
V-D-1/2004-1-26-F        1-26-2004     33.03
III-A-1-a(17)            5-10-2004     Title VII
2004-9-13                9-13-2004     Title VII
III-B-1-a(7)             10-25-2004    92.01
III-A-1-a(19)            11-29-2004    Title VII
2005-5-23                6-27-2005     51.15—
                                       51.18
2005-7-25-C              7-7-2005      TSO Table III
                                       150.15—
2005-7-25-A              - -           150.25;
                                       150.99
2005-7-25-B              7-25-2005     150.01
2005-11-14-A             11-14-2005    150.02
2006-26-6-A              6-26-2006     93.03;
                                       93.99
2006-7-24-B              7-24-2006     TSO Table VII
2006-11-27-A             11-27-2006    153.01
2006-11-27-B             11-27-2006    TSO Table II
2006-12-11-A             12-11-2006    93.02;
                                       93.99
2006-12-18-B             12-18-2006    TSO Table II
2007-4-9-A               4-9-2007      TSO Table VI
2007-3-12-A              4-23-2007     TSO Table V
                                       91.20—
2007-8-27                8-27-2007     91.29;
                                       91.99
2007-9-10(a)             9-9-2007      91.04;
                                       91.99
2008-5-12                5-25-2008     33.03
                                       73.01—
2009-6-8A                6-8-2009      73.07;
                                       73.99
2009-8-10                8-10-2009     Title VII
2009-7-6-B               8-20-2009     52.03;
                                       52.99
2009-10-12               10-16-2009    Title VII
2010-12-13-D             12-13-2010    Title VII
                                       151.40—
2011-4-25(A)             4-25-2011     151.49;
                                       151.99
III-A-1-a(21)/2011-9- 12 9-26-2011     Title VII
2012-3-12-B              3-12-2012     TSO Table III
2012-3-12-C              3-23-2012     Title VII
                                       93.15—
2012-3-26-A              3-23-2012     93.19;
                                       93.99
2012-4-23                4-23-2012     31.01
2012-6-15                6-18-2012     Title VII
2012-6-19                7-1-2012      31.01
2012-6-28                9-10-2012     TSO Table V
2012-11-12               12-10-2012    30.30
2012-27-12               - -           33.03
2013-1-14(b)             1-14-2013     34.02
2013-2-25                - -2013       31.01
                                       153.01—
                                       153.14;
                                       153.25—
2013-7-22(a)             7-22-2013     153.27;
                                       153.40—
                                       153.47;
                                       153.99
2013-9-9(A)              - -2013       90.03
2012-10-22               10-22-2013    34.03
2014-2-3                 2-3-2014      51.15—
                                       51.18
                                       111.01—
2014-5-12                5-12-2014     111.09;
                                       111.99
2014-06-23               6-23-2014     150.04;
                                       150.99
2014-7-28                7-28-2014     Ch. 75, Schd. III;
                                       Ch. 76, Schd. I
2014-9-8                 9-8-2014      TSO Table I
2014-11-24-B             11-24-2014    Ch. 75, Schd. III
2015-4-13                4-13-2015     TSO Table V
2015-4-28                4-28-2015     TSO Table V
2015-9-14(B)             9-14-2015     TSO Table II
2015-10-26(a)            10-26-2015    Ch. 75, Schd. I
2015-10-26(b)            10-26-2015    Ch. 76, Schd. I
2015-11-23(b)            11-23-2015    Ch. 75, Schd. I
2015-11-23(C)            11-23-2015    Ch. 75, Schd. IV
2015-11-23(D)            11-23-2015    31.01
2015-12-28(A)            12-28-2015    34.04
2016-1-11                1-11-2016     TSO Table III
2016-6-27A               6-27-2016     34.05
2016-8-8                 8-8-2016      Ch. 76, Schd. I
2016-10-10(A)            10-10-2016    92.99;
                                       93.99
2016-10-24(A)            10-24-2016    33.03
2017-03-27(A)            3-27-2017     TSO Table I
2017-6-17E               6-17-2017     52.35
2017.7.24(A)             7-24-2017     110.02;
                                       110.99
2017-9-25(B)             9-25-2017     Ch. 75, Schd. I
2017-9-25(C)             9-25-2017     Ch. 75, Schd. II
                                       90.15—
2018-02-26(B)            2-26-2018     90.19;
                                       90.99
2018-03-26(D)            3-26-2018     50.01
2018-04-09               4-9-2018      TSO Table IV
2018-04-23(A)            4-23-2018     151.01;
                                       151.99
2018-14-5(A)             5-14-2018     TSO Table VII
2018.5.14(B)             5-14-2018     90.01;
                                       90.99
2018-6-11(C)             6-11-2018     90.01
2018-10-8(D)             10-8-2018     152.01—
                                       152.06
2018-10-22(A)            10-22-2018    Ch. 76, Schd. I
2018-10-22(B)            10-22-2018    31.01
2018-10-22(D)            10-22-2018    31.01
2018-11-12(a)            11-12-2018    31.01
2018-11-12(b)            11-12-2018    51.03
2018.11.13(A)            11-12-2018    31.01
2019-3-11                3-11-2019     30.02
2019-6-10                6-10-2019     71.02;
                                       71.99
                                       52.15—
                                       52.29;
                                       52.99;
2019-8-26(A)             8-26-2019     52.36;
                                       53.01—
                                       53.07; Ch. 53, Tables
                                       A -
                                       E
2020-1                   3-23-2020     33.05
2020-3                   3-23-2020     95.01—
                                       95.11
2020-4                   - -           TSO Table III
2020-5                   6-8-2019      70.09
2020-7                   - -           34.07
2020-8                   8-10-2020     Ch. 76, Schd. I
2020-9-28-A              9-28-2020     34.08
2020-9                   10-26-2020    TSO Table VII
2020-9A                  11-9-2020     TSO Table III
2020-10                  10-26-2020  TSO Table VII
2020-10A                 11-23-2020    Ch. 76, Schd. I
2021-13                  2-22-2021     TSO Table VI
2021-14                  3-8-2021      51.15
2021-15                  3-22-2021     34.03
2021-16                  6-14-2021     30.31
2021-17                  5-10-2021     TSO Table VII
2021-18                  6-14-2021     33.06
2021-19                  6-28-2021     34.07
2021-20                  7-26-2021     TSO Table VII
2021-23                  12-13-2021    31.01
2022-01                  6-13-2022     51.15—
                                       51.18
2022-12-12(B)            12-12-2022    TSO Table VII
2023-06-26               6-26-2023     TSO Table VII
2023-07-10               7-24-2023     Ch. 75, Schd. III
2023-8-14                8-14-2023     TSO Table VII
2024-1-8(A)              1-8-2024      31.01
2024-2-12                2-12-2024     32.02
2024-4-8                 4-8-2024      51.15—
                                       51.18
                                       54.01—
2024-4-22(B)             4-22-2024     54.08,
                                       54.99
2024-7-22                8-12-2024     51.15—
                                       51.18
2024-10-14               10-14-2024    TSO Table VII
2024-12-16               - -           111.04
                                      
 
