UPLAND, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 18-2024, passed 12-19-2024; and
State legislation current through 2025 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet #1
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Upland Town Code”,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   (a)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and
usual sense.
         (b)   Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Grant County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Upland, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et eq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Incorporation of town
   
11.02   Town seal
   
11.03   Legal holidays
   
11.04   Upland Day
§ 11.01 INCORPORATION OF TOWN.
   (A)   At a special session of the Council, duly convened on 9-9-1893, a
petition was presented to the Council signed by more than one-third of the
legal voters residing within a certain territory therein described, asking the
Council that the territory be incorporated as a town by the name of “Upland”,
which the petition was duly entered upon the records of the Council, whereupon,
the Council there made an order that the votes of the legal voters residing
within the territory be taken upon the question whether the territory should be
incorporated as a town, and whereas it appears that notice of the election on
9-25-1893 for the purpose aforesaid was duly given by publication in The Upland
Monitor, a newspaper printed and published in the territory in the manner
required by law; and it further appears from the verified written statement of
the inspectors and the clerk of the election that the qualified voters of the
territory meet within the territory, and the votes of the legal voters of the
territory were duly taken on 9-25-1893, and that a majority of the votes cast
at the election on the day pursuant to such order and notice given as aforesaid
was in favor of the incorporation of the territory as a town by the name of
“Upland”, all of which appears upon the records of the Council according to
law.
   (B)   It is, therefore, considered and adjudged by the Council that the
prayer of the petition contained in the petition contained in the petition as
presented on 9-9-1893, be and the same is hereby granted, and it is further
ordered that the territory described in the petition be and the same is hereby
incorporated as a town by the name of “Upland”.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 11.02 TOWN SEAL.
   The Council adopts a common seal bearing: a circle with the word “SEAL”
centered, with one bar centered above that word and another bar centered below
it, all surrounded by a beaded ring, with the words “TOWN OF UPLAND” circling
the top and bottom of the beaded ring, with an additional ring surrounding the
aforementioned words.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
§ 11.03 LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The designation of any legal holiday by the Council for town employees
shall not affect any action taken by the Council while in regular or special
session.
   (B)   Any action taken by any town officer or employee on any holiday shall
be valid for all purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11.03)
§ 11.04 UPLAND DAY.
   December 4 is designated as “Upland Day”.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Election districts
   
30.02   At-large elections
   
30.03   Meeting times
   
30.04   Home rule
§ 30.01 ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town legislative body districts have been divided into three
districts and, in addition, two Town Council members shall be elected at-large
for a total of five Town Council members.
      (1)   District One shall include all town territory lying west of a line
commencing at the north town limit of the town as 4th Street is extended north
to the town limit and then south along the center of 4th Street to Jefferson
Street; thence east on the center of Jefferson Street to 3rd Street; thence
south on the center of 3rd Street to Reade Avenue; thence continuing south on
the center of Vayhinger Loop on the Taylor University Campus; thence following
Vayhinger Loop to where it intersects Taylor Lake Lane; thence due south to the
town limit.
      (2)   District Two shall be comprised of all that portion of the town
lying between District One and District Three.
      (3)   District Three shall include all town territory lying east of a
line commencing at the intersection of County Road 500 East and Main Street and
continuing thence south on the centerline of Main Street to McCabe Street;
thence west on the centerline of McCabe Street to 2nd Street; thence south
along the centerline of 2nd Street extended to a point which is one-eighth of a
mile south of Reed Avenue; thence east to Main Street on a line perpendicular
to Main Street; thence south on and along the center of Main Street to the
south town limit.
   (B)   (1)   At-Large Seat 4 shall be an at-large precinct.
      (2)   At-Large Seat 5 shall be an at-large precinct.
   (C)   (1)   Commencing with the 2019 election, members of the Town Council
for District One, District Two and At-Large Seat 4 shall be elected every four
years by all registered voters residing in the town.
      (2)   Commencing with the 2022 election, members from the Town Council
from District Three and At-Large Seat 5 shall be elected every four years by
all the registered voters residing in the town.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 30.02 AT-LARGE ELECTIONS.
   The Council provides that all of its members are to be elected at-large by
the voters of the whole town.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 MEETING TIMES.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be conducted at 7:00 p.m. on the first
and third Tuesday of every month.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 HOME RULE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Town “Home Rule” Ordinance, pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq.
   (B)   The town may exercise any power or perform any function necessary to
the public interest in the conduct of its internal affairs, which is not
prohibited by the State Constitution or the United States Constitution, or
denied or preempted by any other law or is not vested by any other law in any
other town, county or state entity, special purpose district or municipal or
school corporation.
   (C)   The town shall support all actions, projects and programs in the
public interest of its citizens, if those actions, projects and programs are
authorized under “Home Rule” powers or the performance of those functions, are
reasonable and practical under the circumstances.
   (D)   The Council may budget and appropriate funds to provide for town
membership and the membership of town elected and appointed officials and
members of its boards, councils, departments or agencies in local, regional,
state and national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature,
which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement of town operations.
   (E)   The Council may budget and appropriate funds to pay the expenses of
duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the town belongs.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Personnel policies
Officials and Officers
   
31.15   Town Manager
Organizations
   
31.30   Economic Development Commission
   
31.31   Redevelopment Commission
   
31.32   Park Advisory Board
   
31.33   Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
31.34   Redevelopment Authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The personnel policies of the town, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Ch. 32) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-26-1986; Ord. 24-1987, passed 12-9-
1987; Ord. 11-1988, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 3-1994, passed 3-9-1994; Ord. 11-
2008, passed 9-24-2008; Ord. 2-2012, passed 3-14-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-
13-2012; Ord. 6-2012, passed 8-8-2012; Ord. 2013-5, passed 8-20-2013; Ord.
2013-8, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-17-2013; Ord. 2014-2, passed
3-4-2014; Ord. 2014-3, passed 3-4-2014; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-6-2015; Ord.
2015-3, passed 4-7-2015; Ord. 8-2016, passed 8-2-2016)
OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS
§ 31.15 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Employment, compensation and qualifica- tions.
      (1)   The Town Council may employ a town executive to be known as a Town
Manager. The Town Council shall fix compensation, benefits and term of
employment; provided only that, the duration of employment shall be at the
pleasure of the Council or for a definite tenure not to exceed the term in
office of the appointing Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall be the administrative head of the town
government and be employed solely with regard to merit and on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications. Town Council shall not employ one
of its members as Town Manager.
      (3)   The Town Manager need not be a resident of the town at the time of
appointment by the Town Council, but may reside outside the town while employed
as Town Manager only with the approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Town Council for the
proper administration of all of the affairs and administrative duties of the
town, which the Town Council has the authority to control.
      (2)   Unless a written order or ordinance of the Town Council provides
otherwise, the Town Manager shall:
         (a)   Attend the meetings of the Town Council, Plan Commission and
Board of Zoning Appeals, necessary for the efficient operation and planning of
the town and such other meetings as requested or required by the Town Council;
         (b)   Hire all town employees to fill positions authorized by the Town
Council in accordance with pay schedule standards fixed by the Town Council or
be statute;
         (c)   Except for Town Police Department personnel, and subject to the
final approval of the Town Council, suspend, remove or transfer town employees;
         (d)   Delegate any powers to a subordinate employee upon written
authorization of the Town Council;
         (e)   Administer all orders, ordinances and resolutions of the town
and Town Council, and see to the enforcement of laws of the state that are
required to be enforced through the Town Council or other town officials,
subject to the control of the Town Council;
         (f)   Prepare budget estimates and submit them to the Town Council
when required;
         (g)   Recommend to the Town Council adoption of such measures which
are deemed necessary or useful to the health, safety and welfare of the
community or the improvement of administration or delivery of services;
         (h)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment
in accordance with town ordinances and state statute;
         (i)   Receive service of summons on behalf of the town;
         (j)   Execute contracts on behalf of the town for materials, supplies,
services or improvements, after completion of the appropriation, notice and
competitive bidding required by statute;
         (k)   Appoint and remove heads of departments, subject to the advice,
consent and final authority of the Town Council; and
         (l)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Town
Council, not inconsistent with ordinance, statute or state law.
   (C)   Police disciplinary matters. The Town Manager may not serve as a
member of any body that hears disciplinary charges against a member of the
town’s Police Department.
   (D)   Bond. The Town Manager must be bonded for the faithful performance of
his or her duties pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1 and I.C. 36-5-5-5.
   (E)   Acting Town Manager. The Town Council may appoint a qualified person
to perform the duties of Town Manager whenever he or she is absent or unable to
perform the duties of Town Manager.
   (F)   Issuance of warrants or execution of bonds. The Town Council may not
authorize the Manager to issue or execute bonds, notes, warrants of the town.
   (G)   Outside employment. During his or her term of employment, the Town
Manager shall not engage in any other business activity without the express
written approval of the Town Council.
   (H)   Termination. The employment of the Town Manager may be terminated in
accordance with the terms provided for in the separate Town Manager employment
agreement.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 5-2-2017)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.30 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Council finds and determines that a need exists for the financing
of economic development facilities and pollution control facilities, as defined
in I.C. 36-7-12.
   (B)   The Town Department of Development is established. The Department
shall be under the control of the town’s Economic Development Commission. The
Commission shall consist of three members as provided in I.C. 36-7-12-6.
   (C)   The Department of Development and the town’s Economic Development
Commission shall be organized, the members appointed and qualified and exercise
the functions and have all of the powers and duties authorized by I.C. 36-7-12.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.31 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment and/or economic development of areas by private enterprise and
the town by re- establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby re-establishes a department of redevelopment
to be known as the "Upland Redevelopment Commission" to be controlled by a
Board of five members (the "Redevelopment Commission").
   (C)   Pursuant to the act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will constitute a special taxing district to be known as
the town Redevelopment District (the "Redevelopment District") for the purpose
of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic
development purposes as provided in the act. The Town Council finds and
determines that all of the taxable property within the Redevelopment District
will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic
development projects carried out under the act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the act.
   (D)   Pursuant to the act, the Town Council shall appoint two members of the
Redevelopment Commission, and the President of the Town Council shall appoint
three members of the Redevelopment Commission.
   (E)   Members of the Redevelopment Commission shall be at least 18 years of
age and must be residents of the town. Members shall take and subscribe an oath
of office before beginning the duties thereof and shall execute a bond as set
forth in I.C. 36-7-14-7.
   (F)   The term of office of the members of the Redevelopment Commission
shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on January 1,
2026, or as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-7-14- 7.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 10-1989, passed 12-13-1989; Ord. 12-2024, passed 9-
17-2024)
§ 31.32 PARK ADVISORY BOARD.
   The town’s Park Advisory Board shall consist of seven members appointed by
the Town Council. Following the initial appointment, members shall be selected
for a three-year term. Two initial members shall be selected to serve for a
term of one year commencing 1-1-2014 and said members shall also serve for the
remainder of the calendar year of 2013. Two initial members shall be elected to
serve a two- year term from 1-1-2014 and shall also serve for the remainder of
the calendar year of 2013. Two initial members shall be selected for a term of
three years commencing 1-1-2014 and said members shall also serve for the
remainder of the 2013 calendar year. The members shall serve without
compensation and the Board shall meet monthly. All members are required to
attend at least 75% of the meetings and, if they do not, they are subject to
replacement by the Town Council. The members of the Board are not required to
be residents of the town, but should be individuals that reside in the area and
who are interested in and have knowledge of the parks located within the town.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 2013-9, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 31.33 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Ordinance Violations Bureau. There is hereby established the Ordinance
Violations Bureau of the town.
   (B)   Ordinance Violations Clerk. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as
the Ordinance Violations Clerk and be the administrator of the Bureau.
   (C)   Statutory duties. The Violations Clerk shall accept written
appearances, waivers of trial, admissions, violations and payment of civil
penalties of not more than $2,500 or in an amount that the General Assembly
may, hereafter, allow in ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule
prescribed in this section.
   (D)   Collection of civil penalties.
      (1)   Upon an admission made within 30 days after the date of the
citation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall assess and receive from the violator the
amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established herein. All
citations not admitted and paid within 30 days shall be transferred to a court
of record of competent jurisdiction and prosecuted in the usual manner.
      (2)   All sum collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for
ordinance violations shall be accounted for and paid to the municipal
corporation as provided by law (I.C. 33-36 and/or replacements). Civil
penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by the Clerk under
procedures provided for by the state’s Board of Accounts. Payment of civil
penalties under this section may be made in person, by mail or to an agent or
agents designated by the legislative body.
   (E)   Subsequent and continuing violations.
      (1)   Subsequent violations. Any person, corporation or organization who
commits more than one violation of any of the offenses specifically noted
herein within any 12-month period will be subject to an increased fine, as set
forth herein, for each and every violation.
      (2)   Continuing violations. Every continuous day, or part of a day, that
a violation is committed or continues in existence is a separate violation for
which civil penalties may be imposed.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   All penalty provisions of the code of local ordinances shall be
subject to admission of violation before the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the
town.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty provisions set forth in this section,
any provision, title, chapter, section or division of the code of local
ordinances of the city, which, by its own terms, clarifies that the fine or
penalty for the violation of its terms shall be paid through the Ordinance
Violations Bureau of the city shall be subject to admission of violation before
the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the city, even if the provision, title,
chapter, section or division is not specifically set forth in the table
contained in this section.
   (G)   Prosecution for ordinance violations; procedure.
      (1)   (a)   If a person does any of the following, the Clerk shall report
this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute ordinance
violation cases for the municipal corporation:
            1.   Denies and ordinance violation under this chapter;
            2.   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations
Clerk after having entered an admission of violations; or
            3.   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this section.
         (b)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated
for the alleged ordinance violation.
      (2)   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled
to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the
right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations
Clerk.
      (3)   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to
trial, the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the
violation or enter a written denial with the Clerk.
      (4)   Upon denial, the Violations Clerk shall transfer the proceeding to
the Town Attorney for filing in a court of record located in the county.
      (5)   Upon a determination that an ordinance violation has occurred,
judgment shall be entered for the amount of the penalty, plus court costs.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 10-6-2015)
§ 31.34 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Upland Redevelopment Authority (the "Authority") is hereby
established.
   (B)   The Authority shall be governed by a board of three members to be
appointed by the President of the Council. Each member shall be a resident of
the town, shall take and subscribe an oath of office, with such certificates of
appointment to be filed with the records of the Council. No member shall
receive a salary, and no profit or money of the Authority shall inure to the
benefit of a member thereof. Any member can be removed for cause by the
Council.
   (C)   Following passage of this section and appointment of members by the
President of the Council, the Authority shall hold an organizational meeting to
elect officers, including President, Vice President, and Secretary-Treasurer.
Special meetings may be called by the President of the Board of the Authority
or any two members of the Board as provided by the act. A majority of the
members of the Board of the Authority shall constitute a quorum. The
concurrence of a majority of the members of the Board of the Authority is
necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 13-2024, passed 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
   
32.01   Funds
   
32.02   Project bids; escalator clauses
   
32.03   Accident reports
   
32.04   Income tax option
§ 32.01 FUNDS.
   The town can and will set up funds from time to time. The provisions
concerning these funds are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 34.01, 34.03, 34.04) (Ord. 3-1995, passed 6-14-1995; Ord. 8-
1997, passed 5-14-1997; Ord. passed 3-11-2009)
§ 32.02 PROJECT BIDS; ESCALATOR CLAUSES.
   (A)   An escalator clause may be included in bids and bid specifications
established for town projects.
   (B)   The escalator clause may allow bidders to:
      (1)   Increase contract unit prices in an amount equal to the bidder’s
increase in cost of materials and supplies occurring after the date on which
the bid is originally submitted, if the bidder agrees to inform the Council of
any corresponding decrease in the bidder’s cost of materials and submits
verification acceptable to the Council at least once a month that the price to
the bidder from the bidder’s regular sources of supply has been increased or
decreased; and
      (2)   Reserve the right to allocate their product to their customers in a
fair and equitable manner due to the reduction of the allocation from the
source of supply to the bidder in accordance with mandatory allocation
directives issued by the state or federal governments.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 32.03 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The fee collected for the preparation of an accident report shall be $5. The
revenue collected from such reports shall be deposited in the Continuing
Education Fund. The Town Council may appropriate the money collected from the
inspection fees only for law enforcement purposes.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 11-1997, passed 7-23-1997)
§ 32.04 INCOME TAX OPTION.
   (A)   The county hereby imposes an additional rate of the county option
income tax at the rate of 0.15% in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-6-31 to provide
funding for the public safety in the county (public safety rate).
   (B)   The County Auditor shall distribute income tax revenues attributable
to the public safety rate to the county and to each municipality of the county.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall distribute the portion of the certified
distribution that is attributable to the public safety rate to the county and
to each municipality of the county in an amount equal to the result of: a
portion of the certified distribution that is attributable to the public safety
rate, multiplied by a fraction equal to the attributed allocation amount of the
county or municipality of the calendar year, divided by the sum of the
attributed allocation amount of the county or municipality for the calendar
year.
   (D)   The county shall make all the distributions of such revenues from the
public safety rate not more than 30 days after receiving the portion of the
certified distribution that is attributable to the public safety rate.
   (E)   The revenue distributed to the county or municipality attributable to
the public safety rate must be deposited into a separate account or fund which
may be appropriated by the county or municipality only for public safety
purposes.
(Ord. 15-2008, passed 12-29-2008)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Building standards enforcement
   
33.02   Non-discrimination
   
33.03   Public works facilities; construction
   
33.04   Property preservation
   
33.05   Smoking
   
33.06   Materiality threshold
   
33.07   Capital asset policy
   
33.08   Responsible bidding practices
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 BUILDING STANDARDS ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby appoints itself as a committee of the whole to
enforce the repair or demolition of unsafe buildings and unsafe premises within
the corporate limits of the town. The Town Council further appoints the Clerk-
Treasurer as its agent for serving notice upon all those having a “substantial
property interest” in such unsafe structures, and for receiving petitions,
remonstrances and other communications from such persons having a “substantial
property interest”.
   (B)   A “substantial property interest” shall be the same as defined by I.C.
36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 10-23-91)
§ 33.02 NON-DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town not to discriminate against any employee
or applicant for employment due to the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age or handicap of that individual.
   (B)   This policy extends to all phases of employment and shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer;
      (2)   Recruitment or recruitment advertising;
      (3)   Lay-off or termination;
      (4)   Rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and
      (5)   Selection for training, including apprenticeship.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.03 PUBLIC WORKS FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General. It is the desire of the Town Council to establish policies
regarding the construction and/or replacement of public works in the town,
including streets, curbs, alleys, walks, street lights, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers and water lines. It is the purpose of this section to set forth these
policies.
   (B)   Cost. It is the basic position of the town that public works
facilities and improvements, hereinafter defined as streets, curbs, alleys,
walks, street lights, storm sewers, sanitary sewers and water lines, shall be
constructed for the convenience and benefit of the properties that the public
works facilities serve. Furthermore, the cost of constructing the public works
facilities shall be the primary responsibility of those properties receiving
the benefit from such facilities. It is not the policy of the town to provide
these public works facilities for any property or at any location at no cost to
the properties receiving the benefit from the facilities.
   (C)   Policy for the construction of new public works facilities.
      (1)   Streets, curbs and alleys. It is expected that each property and/or
property developer receiving the service and use of streets, curbs and alleys
shall pay on a pro rata share cost basis for the initial improvement or
construction of these public works facilities. Once constructed and accepted by
the town, the town shall be responsible for routine and periodic maintenance.
The town will use, wherever possible, motor vehicle highway, local roads and
streets or other funds or taxes for the maintenance and, when appropriate,
reconstruction of improved streets, curbs and alleys.
      (2)   Walks.
         (a)   The construction of sidewalks shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner.
         (b)   Furthermore, all property owners must be responsible for
maintenance of the walks.
      (3)   Street lights. The town will provide street lighting as funds
permit in a standard street lighting form. These shall be single alley or
street lights installed on the town’s standard poles with overhead wiring. If
any property owner or owners should desire to have ornamental lighting in lieu
of the standard lighting, they shall then be required to pay the increased
cost.
      (4)   Storm sewers.
         (a)   Storm sewers shall be designed and constructed to serve the
watershed area.
         (b)   The cost of storm sewers shall be prorated over the benefitted
property owners.
         (c)   The town shall, whenever possible, use existing funds or seek
federal and state funding sources to assist in cost sharing for storm sewers.
      (5)   Sanitary sewers. Sanitary sewers will be available to be extended
for the benefit to serve additional properties. The cost shall be prorated to
the property owners in a manner consistent with the Barrett Law, being I.C. 26-
9-36, or other assessment procedures provided by state statute to the town. The
town will also seek federal and state funding where possible to assist in these
costs.
      (6)   Water lines.
         (a)   Water lines will be available to be extended and constructed in
accordance with the main extension policy of the town’s Water Utility.
         (b)   The cost shall be prorated to the property owners in a manner
consistent with the Barrett Law or other assessment procedures provided by
state statute to the town.
         (c)   The town will also seek federal and state funding sewers where
possible to assist in these costs.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever a property owner or owners should desire the construction
of public improvements, they shall first petition the town. This petition shall
clearly state the type of public improvements desired, their location and shall
be signed by the property owners or individuals making such a request.
      (2)   Upon receiving the petition, the town will review existing
facilities in the area, have prepared a preliminary cost estimate for the
public facilities requested and make a determination of available funds to
assist in the cost sharing of these public improvements. Upon completion of
this determination, the town shall then inform the petitioner(s) and other
affected property owners who will be expected to cost share in the project of
the proposed project and its intended cost. The people affected will then have
the right to vote on whether or not they wish to proceeds with the project. If
the majority (51%) of the property owners wish to proceed, the town will then
follow the applicable state statutes for construction of public improvements
and complete the project accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 3-88, passed 2-24-1988; Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-1-
1988)
§ 33.04 PROPERTY PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ROADWAY UPON TOWN PROPERTY. Those which have been obviously delineated,
marked or utilized for travel to the discerning eye of any reasonable
individual. Whenever it is necessary to implement this definition, it shall be
interpreted with the most conservative interpretation and the burden of proof
shall be upon the defendant or the accused violator to show that the traveled
route is authorized and consistently used as a roadway for vehicular traffic.
Inability to so prove shall result in prima facie evidence of guilt if a
vehicle is operated in any area otherwise not supposed to be so used.
      SKATEBOARD. A type of sports equipment used primarily for the activity of
skateboarding which may or may not be motorized.
      VEHICLE. Any vehicle having one, two, three, four or more wheels, driven
by motor power or drawn by animal power.
   (B)   Controls and restrictions. All of the following acts are hereby
declared unlawful and a violation when committed or caused to be committed by
any individual or any groups of individuals within the boundaries or upon the
lands or any property of the town:
      (1)   Driving or operating any vehicle other than upon designated
roadways provided for such use;
      (2)   Trespassing on town property without authorization by a proper town
official;
      (3)   Destruction of town property, vandalizing of town property, cutting
or removing fallen timber, limbs or firewood or in any other way disturbing the
flower, fauna and manmade constructed objects upon town property;
      (4)   Riding, using or otherwise operating a skateboard, kick scooter or
skates in Jefferson Park, Depot Park, on sidewalks around the Town Hall, on the
sidewalk on the south side of the Community Building or beyond the fence at the
ball diamond;
      (5)   Allowing a skateboard, skates, bicycles, kick scooter or other
device to come into contact with a railing, picnic table, bench, any other
human-made object or any other surface which could be damaged by such contact;
and
      (6)   Causing the commission or committing upon town property any other
act which, by its commission, would violate state or federal law.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-15-2013) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.05 SMOKING.
   (A)   State law prohibits smoking by employees, department heads, elected
officials, vendors, contractors or members of the public:
      (1)   In any of the town’s places of employment;
      (2)   Within eight feet of any public entrance to any town building or
office; or
      (3)   Within any space under the town’s control where the public is
invited or permitted.
   (B)   Employees have a responsibility to report violations by a member of
the public or other employees to their elected official or department head. An
employee may do so without fear of reprisal or retaliation.
   (C)   In addition to the potential infraction penalties applicable to
violations of state law on smoking, violation of this policy by an employee is
subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination. Violations of
this policy by others in the presence of employees shall be handled in
accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Town Council for all
premises under the control of the town.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 6-13-2012) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Internal Control Policy attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to 6-30-2016.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of
the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 33.07 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   General information.
      (1)   The Capital Asset Policy will be effective August 1, 2024. The
Capital Asset Policy documents the minimum value of capital assets to be
reported on the town annual financial report. The Capital Asset Policy follows
the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement 34. The town will be
required to depreciate capital assets. The minimum capital asset threshold will
be $5,000. An asset valued less than $5,000 will be expensed in the year of the
purchase.
      (2)   The Capital Asset Policy will serve to classify capital assets for
accuracy in financial reporting through the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Definition of capital assets.
      (1)   CAPITAL ASSETS include land, infrastructure, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery, equipment, and vehicles,
construction in progress, and other capital assets. All capital assets will
have useful lives of more than one year and a unit cost of $5,000 or more. All
land will be capitalized but not depreciated.
      (2)   Items costing less than $5,000 which are permanently installed as a
part of the cost of original construction or installation of a larger building
or unit of equipment will be included in the cost of the larger unit.
      (3)   Purchases made with grant funds must comply with grant requirements
if the grant requirements are more restrictive.
      (4)   The following table contains the capitalization thresholds for
capital assets:
 
Capital Asset Major Category       Capitalization Thresholds
Land                               $20,000
Buildings                          $20,000
Improvements other than buildings  $5,000
Machinery, equipment, and vehicles $20,000
Construction in progress           All
Other capital assets               $10,000
 
   (C)   Valuation of capital assets.
      (1)   Capital assets should be recorded at historical cost. The cost
normally includes the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but it
also should include any reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and its intended use. Such costs could include
the following: freight, site preparation, fees (architectural, engineering,
legal, appraisal, and surveying), demolition, interest, and other reasonable
costs.
      (2)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at fair market
value on the date of acquisition.
   (D)   Asset definition by major category.
      BUILDINGS. 
         (a)   Permanent structures designed and erected to house equipment
services or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and
fixtures within the buildings and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire
escapes, canopies, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that
serve the building.
         (b)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling,
ventilation, and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems,
surveillance systems, elevators, escalators, walk-in coolers and freezers,
fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the building.
      IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS. Assets such as parking areas, fencing,
retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, and
other similar items. For utility assets, this category would include all
equipment and facilities required and used to deliver public water to the
users, and all equipment and facilities used to collect, treat, and dispose of
sewage for a sanitary sewer operation.
      INFRASTRUCTURE. Assets that are long-lived capital assets that normally
are stationary in nature and can be preserved for a significantly greater
number of years than most capital assets. Examples include roads, streetlights,
traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems. Infrastructure assets do
not include buildings, drives, parking lots, or any other examples given above
that are incidental to property or access to the property above.
      LAND. Specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage including rights-of-way
owned by the town, its various departments, boards, or authorities, regardless
of the method or date of acquisition.
      MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT, AND VEHICLES. Assets that are primarily movable
items. Included in this category are office equipment, office furniture,
appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment, communication
equipment, police, fire, and park equipment, laboratory equipment, vehicles,
road equipment, aircraft, emergency equipment, earth-moving equipment, and data
processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
      OTHER CAPITAL ASSETS. Capital assets that do not fit into any of the
other major categories listed above (e.g., certain software, intellectual
property, etc.).
   (E)   Depreciation methods and salvage value.
      (1)   Depreciation represents the recognition of the cost of an asset
over time by calculating its estimated loss in value during each year.
Generally, at the end of the asset's life, the sum of the amounts charged for
depreciation in each year (accumulated depreciation) will equal the original
cost less salvage value.
      (2)   The salvage value of an asset is the value it is expected to have
when it is no longer useful for its intended purpose. The town assumes a
salvage value of $0 but may evaluate on an asset- by-asset basis.
      (3)   The town depreciates the majority of its capital assets using the
straight-line method. Under this method, the same amount of depreciation is
deducted from the value of an asset every year for its useful life. The town
takes the full year of depreciation of a capital asset in the year of
acquisition and recognizes no salvage value (book value of a capital asset
after all depreciation has been fully expensed). Land and construction in
progress are capital asset categories that are not depreciated. Construction in
progress assets become another category of assets once the asset is
substantially ready to be placed in service.
      (4)   The town depreciates its infrastructure capital assets using the
group or composite methods of
depreciation. The group or composite methods of depreciation apply a single
straight-line depreciation rate and average useful life to the calculation of
depreciation for a group of assets.
      (5)   Estimated use lives.
Land                                   N/A
Buildings and improvements to building 50 years
Machinery and equipment                5 years
Automobiles                            5 years
Light trucks                           8 years
Heavy trucks                           15 years
Paths and trails                       15 years
Parking lots                           15 years
Retaining walls                        15 years
Lighting systems                       15 years
Plazas and pavilions                   15 years
Fencing                                15 years
Water features                         15 years
Roads                                  50 years
Bridges                                75 years
Water/sewer lines                      50 years
Street lighting                        25 years
Storm drains                           50 years
Sidewalks                              15 years
Construction in progress               N/A
 
   (F)   Capital asset acquisition.
      (1)   The method of acquisition of a capital asset is not a determining
factor. Each department shall report capital assets acquired by any of the
following:
         (a)   Regular purchases.
         (b)   Construction by town personnel.
         (c)   Construction by an outside contractor.
         (d)   Resolution/condemnation.
         (e)   Donation/contribution.
         (f)   Addition to an existing asset.
         (g)   Transfer from another department.
         (h)   Trade/barter.
         (i)   Annexation.
         (j)   Lease purchase.
      (2)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
         (a)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term.
         (b)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option.
         (c)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property.
         (d)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception
of the lease (excluding executory costs) equals at least 90% of the fair-value
of the leased property.
      (3)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria are considered
operating leases.
   (G)   Asset transfers and dispositions. Capital assets should not be
transferred, sent to auction, or disposed of without prior approval of the
department head and consent from the Town Council. A list of the capital assets
being transferred or disposed of should be sent to the Town Fiscal Officer
prior to transfer or disposal. Notification should be given if the asset
changes location or is retired/disposed of.
   (H)   Periodic inventories. A physical inventory of all capital assets will
be conducted in each department annually at a minimum. The inventory will be
conducted on or before December 31 each year by the Town Fiscal Officer or a
designee. Department heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory
of their department by verifying a list of capital assets prior to year-end.
   (I)   Responsibilities of Town Fiscal Officer. The Fiscal Officer will
ensure that capital assets are being accounted for by establishing a capital
asset inventory, both initially and annually in subsequent years. The Fiscal
Officer will further ensure that the capital asset report will be updated
annually to reflect additions, reductions, and transfers. The Fiscal Officer
will also report annual capital asset balances as required by the State Board
of Accounts on the town annual financial report.
   (J)   Responsibilities of department heads. It is the responsibility of the
department head to keep an accurate record of the department's capital assets.
The department head or a designee will act as the contact during the physical
inventory process. Someone within the department shall be designated by the
department head to record the receipt of the asset at time of acquisition and
to follow the procedures above at the time the asset is transferred or disposed
of. The department head or a designee shall act as a steward for each capital
asset while it is owned and used by the department. In addition, any damage or
theft of a capital asset shall be reported to the department head and Fiscal
Officer within a reasonable amount of time.
(Ord. 11-2024, passed 8-6-2024)
§ 33.08 RESPONSIBLE BIDDING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Bid submission requirements. Contractors proposing to submit bids on
any Town of Upland ("city") project estimated to be at least $150,000 or more
must, prior to the opening of bids, submit a statement made under oath and
subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by the town and must include:
      (1)   A copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's online
records for the bidder dated within 60 days of the submission of said document
showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana Secretary of
State's business entity reports, and eligible for a certificate of good
standing. If the bidder is an individual, sole proprietor or partnership, this
division shall not apply;
      (2)   A list identifying all former business names;
      (3)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations
of federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to violations of
contracting or anti-trust laws, tax or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), or federal Davis-Bacon and related
Acts;
      (4)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources;
      (5)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training programs,
applicable to the work to be performed on the project, which are approved by
and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office of
Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence includes a
copy of all applicable apprenticeship certificates or standards for these
training programs;
      (6)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that:
         (a)   Covers all employees of the bidder who will perform work on the
public work project; and
         (b)   Meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in I.C. 4-13-18-
5 or I.C. 4-13-18-6;
      (7)   The name and description of the management experience of each of
the bidder's project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign
to work on the project;
      (8)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law for any
trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award, and
disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five years of
any professional or trade license held by the company, or of any director,
office or manager employed by the bidder;
      (9)   Evidence that the contractor is utilizing a surety company which is
on the United States Department of Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties; and
      (10)   A written statement of any federal, state or local tax liens or
tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state or local taxing body in the last
five years. The city reserves the right to demand supplemental information,
from the bidder, (additional) verification any of the information provided by
the bidder and may also conduct random inquiries of the bidder's current and
prior customers.
   (B)   Post-bid submissions from subcontractors. 
      (1)   All bidders shall provide a written list that discloses the name,
address, and type of work for each first-tier subcontractor from whom the
bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of the public work
project, including individuals performing work as independent contractors,
within five business days after the date the bids are due. In addition, each
such first-tier subcontractor shall be required to adhere to the requirements
of division (A) as though it were bidding directly to the town, except that
first-tier subcontractors shall submit the required information (including the
name, address, and type of work for each of their first-tier subcontractors) to
the successful bidder no later than five business days prior to the
subcontractor's first day of work on the public work project and the bidder
shall then forward said information to the town.
      (2)   Upon request, the town may require any second and lower-tier
subcontractors to provide the required information (including name, address,
type of work on the project and the name of the higher-tier subcontractor). The
town may require the successful bidder and relevant subcontractor to remove the
second or lower-tier subcontractor from the project and replace it with a
responsive and responsible contractor.
      (3)   Failure of a subcontractor to submit the required information shall
not disqualify the successful bidder from performing work on the project and
shall not constitute a contractual default and/or breach by the successful
bidder. The town may also require that successful bidder to remove the
subcontractor from the project and replace it with a responsive and responsible
subcontractor.
      (4)   The disclosure of a subcontractor ("disclosed subcontractor") by a
bidder or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. Thus, a bidder and/or subcontractor may substitute another
subcontractor ("substitute subcontractor") for a disclosed subcontractor by
giving the town written notice of the name, address, and type of work of the
substitute subcontractor. The substitute subcontractor is subject to all the
obligations of a subcontractor under this section.
   (C)   Validity of pre-qualification classification.
      (1)   Upon designation by the town that a contractor or subcontractor's
submission in anticipation of a bid is complete and timely, and upon any
further consideration deemed necessary by the city, the contractor or
subcontractor may be pre-qualified for future town public works projects. A
contractor's classification as "qualified" shall exempt the contractor or
subcontractor from the comprehensive submission requirements contained herein
for a period of 12 months.
      (2)   Thereafter, contractors or subcontractors who are pre-qualified
must submit a complete application for continuation of "pre-qualified"
standing, on a form provided by the town, (also referred to as the "short
form") by December 31 for the upcoming calendar year. Failure by any pre-
qualified contractor or subcontractor to timely submit its complete application
for continuation of "pre-qualified" standing shall result in automatic removal
of the designation, effective January 1 of the upcoming year. However, the
"removed" contractor or subcontractor shall still be permitted to bid on town
public works projects.
      (3)   Any material changes to the contractor's status, at any time, must
be reported in writing within ten days of its occurrence to the town. The pre-
qualification designation is solely within the discretion of the town and the
town specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the designation for a
stated written reason(s).
      (4)   Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be
forwarded to the contractor within seven working days of such a decision. Any
contractor denied or losing pre-qualification status may request
reconsideration of the decision by submitting such request in writing to the
town within five business days of receipt of notice of denial.
   (D)   Incomplete submissions by bidders. It is the sole responsibility of
the potential bidder to comply with all submission requirements applicable to
the bidder in division (A) above by no later than the public bid opening. Post-
bid submissions must be submitted in accordance with division (B) above.
Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or untimely by the town may result
in the automatic disqualification of the bid.
   (E)   Responsive and responsible bidder determination. The town, after
review of complete and timely submissions, shall, in its sole discretion, after
taking into account all information in the submission requirements, determine
whether a bidder is responsive and responsible. The town specifically reserves
the right to utilize all information provided in the contractor or
subcontractor's submission or any information obtained by the town through its
own independent verification of the information provided by the contractor.
   (F)   Certified payroll.
      (1)   For projects in which the cost is at least $250,000, the successful
bidder and all subcontractors working on a public work project shall submit a
certified payroll report utilizing the federal form now known as a WH-347 which
must be prepared on a weekly basis and submitted to the town within ten
calendar days after the end of each week in which the bidder or subcontractor
performed its work on the public work project. These certified payroll reports
shall identify the job title and craft of each employee on the project, e.g.,
journeyman, electrician, or apprentice electrician.
      (2)   The town may withhold payment due for work performed by a bidder if
the bidder fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time
as such certified payroll reports are submitted. The town may also withhold
payment due for work performed by a subcontractor if the subcontractor fails to
timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time as such certified
payroll reports are submitted. The town shall not withhold payment to a bidder
for work performed by the bidder or for work performed by subcontractors who
have submitted their certified payroll reports, because one or more other
subcontractors failed to timely submit their certified payroll reports.
   (G)   Public records. All information submitted by a bidder or a
subcontractor pursuant to this section, including certified payrolls, are
public records subject to review pursuant to the Indiana Access to Public
Records law (see I.C. 5-14-3).
(Ord. 7-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or groups of persons who shall commit a violation of any
provisions of §
33.04 of this chapter shall have imposed upon each of him, her or them a fine
of $50 for the first violation and $100 for each subsequent violation. Each and
every incident or commission by an individual or groups of individuals or
causing of said commission shall constitute an individual violation.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Declaration of Emergency Plan
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Grant of authority
   
34.03   Request for state assistance
   
34.04   Continuance
   
34.05   Effect of declaration of emergency
   
34.06   Emergency powers; authority to waive procedures and fees
   
34.07   Form of declaration
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   The town has made an ordinance and policy for a declaration of emergency
plan to assist with disasters and/or emergencies in compliance with state law,
being codified within this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.02 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   In the event of an actual or threatened occurrence of a disaster or
emergency, which may result in the large-scale loss of life, injury, property
damage or destruction or in the major disruption of routine community affairs,
business or governmental operations in the town and which is of sufficient and
local departments and agencies to supplemental the efforts of available public
and private resources, the Council, by a majority of its members, may declare
an emergency for the town upon execution of a resolution pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.03 REQUEST FOR STATE ASSISTANCE.
   Consistent with a declaration of emergency, the Council may request the
state to provide assistance; provided that the disaster or emergency is beyond
the capacity of the town to adequately meet demands and state assistance is
necessary to supplemental local efforts to save lives and/or protect property,
public health and safety, or to avert or lessen the threat of a disaster.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.04 CONTINUANCE.
   The declaration of emergency shall continue until the Council finds that
emergency conditions no longer exist, at which time, the Council shall execute
and file with the Clerk-Treasurer a document marking the end of the state of
emergency. No state of emergency shall continue for longer than 30 days, unless
renewed by the Council. The Council may, by resolution, end a state of
emergency at any time.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.05 EFFECT OF DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A) A declaration of emergency shall automatically activate the town
emergency operations plan and shall be authority for the deployments of
personnel and use of any forces to which the plan applies and for use or
distribution of any supplies, equipment, materials and facilities assembled,
stockpiled or arranged to be made available pursuant to state law or any other
laws applicable to emergencies or disasters.
      (1)   The Town Marshal, or his or her designee, shall have the legal
authority to exercise the powers and discharge the duties necessary to address
the emergency, including the implementation of the emergency operations plan,
coordination of the emergency responses of public and private agencies and
organizations, coordination of recovery efforts with state and federal
officials and inspection of emergency or disaster sites.
      (2)   In responding and conducting necessary and appropriate
investigations, the Town Marshal, or his or her designee, is authorized to
enter at a reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the
purpose of investigating and inspecting sites involved with emergency
management functions.
      (3)   No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized
representative or agent of the town who requests entry for purposes of
inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials. Nor shall any person
obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while that
individual is in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
   (B)   A declaration of emergency shall further automatically activate the
town emergency powers as per §
34.06.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.06 EMERGENCY POWERS; AUTHORITY TO WAIVE PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   (A)   Emergency powers. Following a declaration of emergency and during the
continuance of such state of emergency, the Council is authorized to implement
local emergency measures to protect life and property or to bring the emergency
situation under control. In exercising this authority, the Council may cause to
become effective any town ordinance, county ordinance or state law. If any of
these ordinances or laws is included in a declaration of emergency, the same
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be in effect
until the declaration of emergency has terminated.
   (B)   Authority to waive procedures and fees. Pursuant to a declaration of
emergency, the Council has the authority to waive any local procedures and
fees. The implementation of waivers shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Additional emergency powers. The Council shall have and may exercise
for such period as the declared emergency exists or continues, the following
additional emergency powers:
      (1)   To direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population from any stricken or threatened area, for the preservation of life
or other disaster mitigation, response or recovery;
      (2)   To prescribe routes, modes of transportation and destinations in
connection with evacuation;
      (3)   To make provision for the availability and use of temporary
emergency housing, emergency shelters and/or emergency medical shelters;
      (4)   To transfer the direction, personnel or functions of any town
departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or
facilitating emergency services;
      (5)   To utilize all available resources of the town and subordinate
agencies over which the town has budgetary control as reasonably necessary to
cope with the emergency or disaster;
      (6)   To commandeer or utilize public or private property when necessary
to cope with the emergency or disaster or when there is compelling necessity
for the protection of lives, health and welfare and/or the property of
citizens;
      (7)   To suspend any law, code provision or regulation prescribing the
procedures for conduct of town business, or the orders, rules or regulations of
any town agency, if strict compliance with any ordinance, resolution, order,
rules or regulations would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action
in coping with the emergency or disaster; provided that such suspension shall
provide for the minimum deviation from the requirements under the
circumstances; and
      (8)   To perform and exercise such other functions, powers and duties as
may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the
civilian population, including individuals with service animals, prior to,
during and following a major disaster or emergency.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 34.07 FORM OF DECLARATION.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of emergency, an official declaration of
emergency, in substantially the same form set forth below, shall be signed and
filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be communicated to the
citizens of the affected area using the most effective and efficient means
available.
   (B)   The declaration shall state the nature of the emergency or disaster,
the conditions that require the declaration and any sections of any ordinance
or law which shall be in effect.
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY (LANGUAGE TO BE USED IN IMPLEMENTATION)
WHEREAS, the Town of Upland, Grant County, Indiana has experienced an event of
critical significance as a result of (DESCRIPTION OF EVENT) on (DATE); and
WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Town Council, with advise from the Town Manager
and Town Marshal, there exist emergency circumstances located in (DESCRIBE
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION) requiring extraordinary and immediate corrective actions
for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
Town of Upland, Grant County, Indiana including individuals with service
animals; and
WHEREAS, to prevent or minimize injury to people and damage to property
resulting from this event;
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested by local and state law;
IT IS HEREBY DECLARED that a local state of emergency exists and shall continue
until the conditions requiring this declaration are abated.
WHEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED:
   1.   That the Town Marshal, or his/her designee, activate the Emergency
Operations Plan;
   2.   That the following sections of the Official Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Upland, Grant County, Indiana and the State of Indiana be implemented
(LIST APPLICABLE ORDINANCES); and
   3.   That the following measures also be implemented: (LIST MEASURES)
ENTERED at (TIME) on (DATE).
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
      
53.   UTILITY ACCOUNTS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Management of sewage collection system; authority to prohibit dumping
Sewer Use
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Prohibited acts; connection with public sewer required
   
50.17   Permit required; classes of permits
   
50.18   Discharge of certain wastes prohibited; response to violation
   
50.19   Pretreatment of industrial waste required
   
50.20   Plans for pretreatment facility to be submitted to city; periodic
inspections
   
50.21   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
50.22   Pretreatment and discharge of industrial cooling water
   
50.23   Non-residential users to provide wastewater flow characteristics
information
   
50.24   Strength of sewage; testing
   
50.25   Grease, oil, sand interceptors and traps
   
50.26   Notice to city of unusual flows
   
50.27   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
50.28   Tampering with municipal sewage works prohibited
   
50.29   Right of entry for purpose of inspection
   
50.30   Appeals
Rates and Charges
   
50.45   Definitions
   
50.46   Charges established; charges regulated by EPA; classes of users
   
50.47   Charges collected from owners; basis of sewage rates and charges
   
50.48   Methods of measurement to determine water quantity
   
50.49   Charges based on volume, strength and character of waste discharged
   
50.50   Manner of billing and collection
   
50.51   Study to review fairness, equity and proportionality of rates and
charges
   
50.52   Special rate contracts
   
50.53   Appeals
   
50.54   Capacity and connection fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer tap fees and shut-off allowance, see §
51.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 MANAGEMENT OF SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM; AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT DUMPING.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town's sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers, and connections to the sewerage treatment
works, the sewerage collection system, and for the regulations, collection, and
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standard
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
SEWER USE
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or industrial
sewage only.
      (2)   STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other clear
water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or industrial
sewage only.
      (2)   STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other clear
water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% through 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leader; cellar; yard
and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains
from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross-connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers; catch basins; storm waters; surface run-off; street
wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include and is distinguishable from
infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317;
or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the equality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. As defined in §
50.45 of this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which waste- water is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the waste- water
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combina- tion of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade
or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combina- tion of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory pro- cedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the Town
of Upland, Indiana, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and could not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER. Water in which sewage has been discharged.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.16 PROHIBITED ACTS; CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require
the removal of unpolluted wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost- effective and in the best interests of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
   (D)   No new construction shall be made unless there is capacity available
to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 PERMIT REQUIRED; CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential,
institutional, governmental and commercial service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of $100 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $300 for
an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the
time application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interlot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointly
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, area-away drains or other sources of surface run-off or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the super- vision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES PROHIBITED; RESPONSE TO VIOLATION.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works, or that interfere with any treatment
process; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F or 0° and
65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a rotor of three-fourths
horse-power (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or con- centration of wastes constituting
(slugs), as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
50.19 of this chapter, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, sludges
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
   (D)   If the Superintendent permits the pre- treatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Super- intendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or waste, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the state’s Water Pollution Control Agencies
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing.
   (G)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register 10-16-1973,
(40 C.F.R. part 136) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the
town. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on 8-25-1978, and Federal
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, published
in the Federal Register on 10-16-1973 (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any
more stringent requirements established by town, and any subsequent state or
federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 PLANS FOR PRETREATMENT FACILITY TO BE SUBMITTED TO CITY; PERIODIC
INSPECTIONS.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
the applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall
maintain operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance
of the treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.21 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town.
   (B)   Where a storm sewer is not available, discharged may be to a natural
outlet approved by the town and by the state.
   (C)   Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available,
such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written
approval by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.22 PRETREATMENT AND DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
50.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.23 NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS TO PROVIDE WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS
INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.24 STRENGTH OF SEWAGE; TESTING.
   The strength of wastewater shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the rate subchapter, from samplings taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in such
manner as the town may elect or at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be
assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling
and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.25 GREASE, OIL, SAND INTERCEPTORS AND TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living-quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be gas-tight,
water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed, all
grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at
his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 NOTICE TO CITY OF UNUSUAL FLOWS.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.27 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.28 TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of criminal
mischief according to state law.
(Prior Code, § 50.28) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the property owner and the property owner shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town employees and the town shall indemnify the property owner
against loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
property owner and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as
such may be caused by negligence or failure of the property owner to maintain
safe conditions as required in §
50.18(E) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
§ 50.30 APPEALS.
   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the Sewage
Works that cannot be resolved at that level way be appealed to the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The same meaning as defined in the Sewer
Use Ordinance.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Upland, Indiana, or any duly authorized
officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of NORMAL
DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 250 mg/l.
         (b)   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate ordinance which regulates the connection to
and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   S.S. (OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS). The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use
Ordinance.
   TOWN. The Town of Upland, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Public Law 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSIDE USER. Any user located inside the corporate boundaries of
the town.
      (5)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (6)   OUTSIDE USER. Any user located outside the corporate boundaries of
the town.
      (7)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.46 CHARGES ESTABLISHED; CHARGES REGULATED BY EPA; CLASSES OF USERS.
   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be charged
for the services provided. These charges are established for each user class,
as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and
user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in
terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (A)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register on September 17, 1978 (43 C.F.R. 44022). Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (B)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this subchapter shall be as follows: Class I - Residential, Commercial,
Governmental, Institutional, Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2019-
2, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 2-2023, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.47 CHARGES COLLECTED FROM OWNERS; BASIS OF SEWAGE RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the town.
Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs, excessive
strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and charges shall
be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determinable as
follows:
   (A)   (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided.
      (2)   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read or estimated monthly and users shall be
billed each month (or period equaling a month).
      (3)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and
charges shall be determined shall be as follows:
All Class I Inside Users
  User Charge
All Class I Inside Users
                                                         User Charge
Base rate per month
 5/8" to 3/4" water meter                               $34.06
 1" water meter                                         $80.50
 1 1/2" water meter                                     $182.64
 2" water meter                                         $247.76
 3" water meter                                         $714.86
Base rate per month
 4" water meter                                         $1,271.85
 6" water meter                                         $2,849.98
Plus treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month $12.27
 
      (4)   Outside user rates reflect a surcharge of 25% above the inside user
rates.
All Class I Outside Users
  User Charge
All Class I Outside Users
                                                         User Charge
Base rate per month
 5/8” to 3/4” water meter                           $42.56
 1” water meter                                       $100.63
 1 1/2” water meter                                   $228.29
 2” water meter                                       $390.61
 3” water meter                                       $893.58
 4” water meter                                       $1,589.83
 6” water meter                                       $3,562.45
Plus treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month $15.36
 
   (B)   (1)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single- family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be
determined is as set by Council.
      (2)   The schedule on which the amount of said rates and charges shall be
determined shall be as follows.
 
                                                          User Charge
Residential — single family residence unit — inside us$108.61
Residential — single family residence unit — outside u$135.77
 
   (C)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user not less than $50 per sample or cost thereof. This charge
will be reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.47) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023; Ord. 6-2024, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 17-2024, passed 11-
19-2024)
§ 50.48 METHODS OF MEASUREMENT TO DETERMINE WATER QUANTITY.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices, or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (D)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than
the number of such dwelling units times base rate in effect per month. In the
case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and
interpreted as the total number of mobile home spaces available for rent; plus,
any other dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other
space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Prior Code, § 50.48) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.49 CHARGES BASED ON VOLUME, STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTE DISCHARGED.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem
practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case,
in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid, or suspended solids in
excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of 20.4 cents per pound of suspended solids for suspended
solids received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of 16.6 cents per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess
of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes,"
as written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance
with "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants,"
Regulation C.F.R. Part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16,
1973.
(Prior Code, § 50.49) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.50 MANNER OF BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly, on or about the first day of the month, for the immediately preceding
billing cycle, generally the period from the twentieth of the month to the
nineteenth of the following month. This time period may change from time to
time if the reading date falls on a weekend or holiday. Annually, each user
shall be notified of the portion of the total billing charged for operation,
maintenance, and replacement for that user during the preceding year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   Deposit. New customers (residential or commercial) will be required to
pay a $120 deposit to initiate utility services (which includes sewer and
water). The deposit is refundable upon the full payment of the final bill at
the termination of services. The deposit may be forfeited at the termination of
services to cover damage or an unpaid balance.
   (D)   Termination of service. If at any time the customer wishes to
terminate service, the customer shall notify the utility of the requested shut-
off date, at least 72 hours prior to the requested date. Charges will continue
to accrue until the scheduled shut-off date. If for any reason, the customer
causes a delay in the shut-off date or re-schedules, charges will continue to
accrue until the shut-off is able to occur.
   (E)   Dishonored check charge. In the event a check, draft or other payment
tendered to the utility by a customer in payment of charges for sewer service
is dishonored by the financial institution of the customer by reason of
"insufficient funds," "account closed," "check stopped," or other similar
cause, a charge of $30 shall be added to the account. The amount shall be in
addition to any other applicable charges, such as late fees or reconnection
fees, which may be incurred due to non-payment.
   (F)   Reconnection charge. When service is turned off for non-payment, or
for any reason beyond the control of the utility a re-establishment of service
is required by any one customer, a charge of $30 will be incurred to cover the
costs. The charge, together with any arrears due to the utility, will be
required to be paid prior to reconnection of service.
   (G)   Late fees. All rates and charges not paid when due by the twenty-first
of each month are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the total unpaid rates or charges shall be added. The penalty will
apply to each new month with past due charges. The amount of the past due
charges, the 10% penalty, and a reasonable attorney fee may be recovered by the
town in a civil action pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23- 31.
   (H)   Disconnect.
      (1)   Customers who are 60 days delinquent and who fail to pay, in full,
their past due charges and applicable past due penalties, or who fail to enter
a payment plan as set out below, shall be considered "delinquent customers" and
subject to disconnection.
      (2)   A delinquent customer shall be notified in writing of:
         (a)   The delinquent amount due including penalties;
         (b)   The date service is scheduled for disconnection;
         (c)   The procedure to resolve a disputed bill; and
         (d)   The contact information to pay the delinquent amount or set up a
payment plan.
      (3)   A payment plan shall include a deposit of 25% of the total amount
due, which must be paid at the time of the agreement. A remaining balance of
$500 or less is due in six monthly installments, a remaining balance of $501 to
$750 in due in nine monthly installments, and a remaining balance of greater
than $750 is due in 12 monthly installments.
      (4)   The disconnection date shall be the twenty-first of the month, if
on a Monday through Thursday, or the next business day thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 50.50) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Interest on delinquent utility bills, see I.C. 8-1-2-121 and 8-1-2-34.5
§ 50.51 STUDY TO REVIEW FAIRNESS, EQUITY AND PROPORTIONALITY OF RATES AND
CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may
remain fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing
services to the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to
be made within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of
operation, following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect.
      (2)   Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume, and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works,
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements, and capital
improvements to the wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm
of certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms
shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 50.51) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 50.52 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to the
sewage works can be determined and such reduction shall be limited to such
reduced costs.
(Prior Code, § 50.52) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 13-1996, passed 12-
11-1996; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015: Ord. 2-
2023, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.53 APPEALS.
   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the sewage
works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed to the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 50.53) (Ord. 10-1986, passed 8-13-1986; Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-
2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-2023, passed 3-7-2024)
§ 50.54 CAPACITY AND CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   CAPACITY FEE shall mean the payment required for the benefit or
privilege of making a connection, directly or indirectly, to the utility's
sewage collection system.
      (2)   Any builder, developer, owner, or new customer whose property has
not been previously served by the utility's sanitary sewer system shall be
charged. Developer shall mean an owner of, or person acting on behalf of an
owner to develop property to be served by the sewage works. In addition, any
existing customer requesting additional capacity in the sewage works by
increasing the size of the water meter serving the property shall pay an
adjusted capacity fee calculated as the charge established in division (A)(4)
reduced by the initial capacity fee. Additionally, existing customers
requesting a reduction of capacity in the sewage works by decreasing the size
of water meter shall not be entitled to a refund by the town.
      (3)   Prior to connecting to the sanitary sewer facilities, a builder,
owner, new customer or developer shall be required to pay a capacity fee in the
amount per equivalent dwelling unit as follows:
 
Year                Amount
2012 and thereafter $1,985
 
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling units and non-residential users shall be
converted to an equivalent dwelling unit as determined by the type of user. The
equivalent dwelling units assessed shall be in accordance with Table 11-1 Flow
Calculation Factors (FCF) of 327 I.A.C. 3-6-11. Flow calculations not indicated
or shown in said table shall be established by the Superintendent of the
utility. These fees are in addition to the connection fee and the user fees.
      (5)   Capacity fees shall be due and payable at the time of application
for service and prior to the connection to the system. No connection to the
sewage works will be allowed prior to the receipt by the sewage works of all
capacity and connection fees.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the municipal sewage works to individual building sites within the corporate
limits of the town shall be borne by the owner of the property and is hereby
set at $500 per building site connected from and after the date of adoption and
approval of this subchapter.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 6-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 2-2023,
passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
50.29 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the infraction and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all infractions.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any infraction beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of an infraction and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $2,500 for each
infraction. Each day in which any such infraction shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the town by
reason of such infraction.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 8-13-1986)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Charges established
   
51.02   Reduced rates to individuals operating kidney dialysis machines
   
51.03   Installation and connection costs borne by owner
   
51.04   Installation of supply mains
   
51.05   Removing town’s water utility from jurisdiction of State Utility
Regulatory Commission
   
51.06   Tap fees and shut-off allowance
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Water utility rates and charges
   
Appendix B:   Non-recurring charges
   
Appendix C:   Summary of capacity fees by meter size
§ 51.01 CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Upland, Indiana, or any duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
      DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
      MAY. Permissive.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
      OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
      REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for
which such works were designed and constructed.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
         (b)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental
user of the wastewater treatment works.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly- owned treatment works.
         (d)   INSIDE USER. Any user located inside the corporate boundaries of
the town.
         (e)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
         (f)   OUTSIDE USER. Any user located outside the corporate boundaries
of the town.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      TOWN. The Town of Upland, Indiana, acting by and through the Town
Council.
   (B)   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
services rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and
charges, based on the use and availability of water supplies by said waterworks
system:
      (1)   Metered usage rates. Each user shall pay a monthly charge based
upon metered usage in accordance with the rates set out in the "consumption per
month" section as further detailed in Appendix A ("Schedule of Rates and
Charges").
      (2)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge per month in
accordance with the applicable size of meter installed, as set out in the
"Monthly Minimum Charge" section of the Schedule of Rates and Charges, for
which the user will be entitled to the quantity of water the monthly minimum
charge will pay for under the consumption per month rates set out in division
(B)(1) above.
      (3)   Fire protection services. Users with hydrants or sprinkler
connections shall pay the applicable rates and charges for such fire protection
services, being hydrants and sprinkler connections, in accordance with the
"Fire Protection Services" section of the Schedule of Rates and Charges. For
the public fire protection surcharge, all users are subject to the surcharge in
accordance with the "Fire Protection Services" section of the Schedule of Rates
and Charges. These fees and charges are for the maintenance of private hydrants
by the town. These fees and charges will be received into the General Fund and
will be billed in January each year.
      (4)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users such as
contractors, events, etc., shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon
rates hereinbefore set forth as metered or as estimated and established by the
Waterworks Superintendent.
      (5)   Collection and deferred payment charges.
         (a)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly, on or about the first day of the month, for the immediately preceding
billing cycle, generally the period from the twentieth of the month to the
nineteenth of the following month. This time period may change from time to
time if the reading date falls on a weekend or holiday.
         (b)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties
served, which are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of determining
whether bills have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such
examination shall be made at the office at which said records are kept and
during the hours that such office is open for business.
         (c)   Deposit. New customers (residential or commercial) will be
required to pay a deposit in the amount of $120 to initiate utility services
(which include water, sewer, stormwater and trash). Credit to billing or
refunds of the meter deposit may be requested under the following conditions:
            1.   Homeowners. Property homeowners may request that their meter
deposit be credited to their account after 12 months of on-time payments. This
request may be made by the account holder to the Utility Clerk or Clerk-
Treasurer following the twelfth applied payment.
            2.   Renters/ten ants. Utility accounts in the name of the renter/
tenants of the property may receive a refund of their meter deposit following
the payment of their final billing. If the filling billed amount is not paid
within 60 days, the meter deposit will be applied to the final outstanding
balance.
            3.   Meter deposits may be transferred to a new address only when
all outstanding bills are paid in full. Service will not be connected, if the
customer has any outstanding balances on prior accounts.
         (d)   Termination of service. If at any time the customer wishes to
terminate service, the customer shall notify the utility of the requested shut-
off date, at least 72 hours prior to the requested date. Charges will continue
to accrue until the scheduled shut-off date. If for any reason, the customer
causes a delay in the shut-off date or re-schedules, charges will continue to
accrue until the shut-off is able to occur.
         (e)   Dishonored check charge. In the event a check, draft or other
payment tendered to the utility by a customer in payment of charges for utility
services is dishonored by the financial institution of the customer by reason
of "insufficient funds," "account closed," "check stopped," or other similar
cause, a charge of $30 shall be added to the utility account. The amount shall
be in addition to any other applicable charges, such as late fees or
reconnection fees which may be incurred due to non-payment.
         (f)   Late fees. All rates and charges not paid when due by the
twenty-first of each month are hereby declared to be delinquent and penalty of
10% of the amount of the total unpaid rates or charges shall be added to the
monthly charges. The penalty will apply to each new month with past due
charges. The amount of the past due charges, the 10% penalty, and a reasonable
attorney fee may be recovered by the town in a civil action pursuant to I.C.
36-9-23-31.
         (g)   Disconnection for non-payment.
            1.   Customers who are two billing cycles delinquent and who fail
to pay in full their past due charges and applicable past due penalties or who
fail to enter into a payment plan as set out below or fall delinquent on a
payment plan that has been agreed upon by both the town and the customer, shall
be considered a "delinquent customer" and are subject to disconnection.
            2.   A delinquent customer shall be notified in writing of the
delinquent amount due including penalties, the date service is scheduled for
disconnection, the procedure to resolve a disputed bill and the contact
information to pay the delinquent amount or set up a payment plan.
            3.   A payment plan shall include a deposit of 25% of the total
amount due, which must be paid at the time of the agreement. A remaining
balance of $500 or less is due in six monthly installments. A remaining balance
of $501 to $750 is due in nine monthly installments. A remaining balance
greater than $751 is due in 12 monthly installments. This installment amount
will be in addition to the monthly billed amount.
            4.   The disconnection date shall be prior to the next billing date
and if on a Monday through Thursday, or the next business day thereafter.
         (h)   Reconnection fees. When service is turned off for non-payment,
or for any reason beyond the control of the utility, a re- establishment of
service is required by any one customer, a charge of $30 will be incurred. The
charge, together with any arrears due to the utility, will be required to be
paid prior to reconnection of service. The Utility Clerk and Clerk-Treasurer
have the authority to waive the reconnection fee for extenuating circumstances.
         (i)   Collection and write-off policy.
            1.   The town hereby reserves any and all collection rights and
remedies permitted by the applicable Indiana statues.
            2.   The town hereby established a policy to write-off accounts
with the town utilities that cannot be collected. This policy supersedes all
previous policies passed by the Town Council.
            3.   A delinquent utility account will be considered eligible for
write-off when one or more of the following conditions exist:
               a.   The delinquent account is at least 24 months past due and
all other collection options have been exhausted;
               b.   The delinquent account holder has filed bankruptcy;
               c.   A lien has been filed against the property for arrears; and
               d.   The utility is unable to collect the delinquent account due
to circumstances beyond the control of the utility department.
            4.   A list of delinquent accounts for write-offs will be prepared
by the Clerk-Treasurer and presented to the Town Council for approval at least
once per calendar year, if applicable.
         (j)   Leak and water adjustment policy.
            1.   The purpose of this policy is to provide a basis for the town
to adjust unusually high utility bills caused by underground leaks in water
lines or equipment on customer property that users could not reasonably have
known with normal diligence, and to relieve possible financial hardship on
residents caused by no fault of their own.
            2.   An unusually high bill shall mean a utility bill that reflect
monthly water usage, in whatever units measured, that is at least 50% increase
of the customer's average monthly usage over the preceding 12 months, or of the
previous full billing period, if no history exists.
            3.   Adjustment request process.
               a.   In order to be granted an adjustment, the customer must
prove that the source of said leak was properly repaired with supporting
documentation.
               b.   A leak adjustment may be granted one time for one month of
billing per one-month period.
               c.   A leak adjustment report will be presented to the Town
Council monthly for their approval by the Clerk-Treasurer.
            4.   Leak identification and repair policy.
               a.   Once a leak has been identified and notice has been given
to the resident and property owner, the property owner will have 30 days to
repair the identified leak.
               b.   If the leak is not repaired within 30 days and an extension
has not been approved by the town, the water will be disconnected and a
reconnection fee will apply.
               c.    Property owners/ landlords are responsible for repairs to
any leak past the meter pit unless specified in an agreement between the lessor
and lessee.
         (k)   Pool fill adjustment policy.
            1.   The purpose of this policy is to provide a basis for the town
to adjust the monthly bill of a resident who has used excess water gallons for
the purpose of filling a pool, hot tub, or other similar equipment.
            2.   Pool fill adjustment request process.
               a.   In order to be granted an adjustment, a customer must prove
the amount of water that was used to fill their pool, hot tub or other similar
equipment. They may do this by using a water meter provided by the town utility
office.
               b.   An adjustment may be granted by the town one time per
calendar year for this purpose unless extenuating circumstances exist and an
additional adjustment is approved by the Town Council.
               c.   The adjustment will be made on the sewer portion of the
monthly bill only.
               d.   An adjustment report will be presented by the Clerk-
Treasurer to the Town Council monthly for approval.
         (l)   Estimated billing. From time to time, the Utility Department may
be unable to read meters due to weather conditions or other unforeseen
circumstances. In this case, billing will be estimated based on the prior three
months usage. No adjustment will be made to any billing amounts until accurate
readings have been received by the Utility Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 3-1987, passed 2-11-1987; Ord. 8-1987, passed 6-10-
1987; Ord. 14-1996, passed 12-11-1996; Ord. 8-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 7-
2015, passed 8-22-2015; Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-7-2019; Ord. 5-2024, passed 3-19-
2024; Ord. 18-2024, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 51.02 REDUCED RATES TO INDIVIDUALS OPERATING KIDNEY DIALYSIS MACHINES.
   It shall be lawful for a rebate of the water charges for such individuals
who make use of substantial amounts of water in the operation of a kidney
dialysis machine and present to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town a certificate
from a doctor holding an unlimited license to practice medicine in the state,
which indicates that the individual applying for such rebate is required by his
or her physical condition to undergo periodic renal dialysis.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 20-1987, passed 9-9-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
municipal water supply to individual building sites or building within the town
shall be borne by the owner and is $500 per building site connected from and
after the date of adoption and approval of this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 8-1987, passed 6-10-1987; Ord. 14-1996, passed 12-
11-1996)
§ 51.04 INSTALLATION OF SUPPLY MAINS.
   (A)   Such connection charge shall include installation of necessary supply
mains up the boundary line of the privately owned property utilizing the
service and the cost of installing a water meter at such point.
   (B)   The owner or person installing a water line for the owner shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 8-1987, passed 6-10-1987; Ord. 14-1996, passed 12-
11-1996)
§ 51.05 REMOVING TOWN’S WATER UTILITY FROM JURISDICTION OF STATE UTILITY
REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The town’s water utility shall be removed from the jurisdiction of the
state’s Utility Regulatory Commission for approval of rates and charges and of
the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 7-1995, passed 10-14-1995)
§ 51.06 TAP FEES AND SHUT-OFF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Water tap fee, sewage tap fee and shut-off allowance time.
      (1)   The water tap fee, sewage tap fee and shut- off allowance time is
hereby amended, revised and established to be as follows.
      (2)   The appropriate and applicable sections of the code pertaining to
rates, fees and charges established levied for services provided by the
wastewater utility are hereby amended, revised and established to be:
         (a)   The water tap fee shall be the sum of $700;
         (b)   The sewage tap fee shall be the sum of $1,200; and
         (c)   The shut-off allowance for utility service shall be in the event
the account is delinquent for 60 days.
      (3)   The schedule of fees hereby established shall be in effect on and
after June 1, 2019.
   (B)   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens. The charges for Wastewater
Department user fee and for water utility fees, including penalties and
recording fees, constitute a lien upon the property served by the wastewater
and/or water utility and may be collected in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-9-23, as amended.
   (C)   Amendments to fines and penalties.
      (1)   Any tap into a sewer under the jurisdiction and possession of the
town’s wastewater utility at the tap is made that is made without authorization
of the Water Utility Superintendent and/or the Town Manager shall result in a
fine. No authorized tap or access to the sewer shall be sanctioned or provided
until all fines incurred for unauthorized access are paid in full.
      (2)   No access, maintenance, or repair to a sewer under the jurisdiction
of the town’s wastewater utility shall be done by any person(s) not employed by
said utility or the town without the express written permission of the Water
Utility Superintendent and or the Town Manager and with the posting of a bond
or proof insurance in the amount sufficient to cover any damages done to said
sewer.
      (3)   No person(s) shall access water from any non-metered or hydrant-
source owned and operated by the water utility without the authorization of the
Water Utility Superintendent or the Town Manager. Accessing town’s water
utility water without proper authorization by the Water Utility Superintendent
or the Town Manager shall result in a fine. The Town Attorney, under
appropriate circumstances, shall pursue criminal prosecution for theft in any
and all cases where it is deemed that unauthorized access to non-metered or
hydrant-sources owned by the water utility was accomplished with the intent to
steal the water so obtained.
      (4)   The water utility charges for water provided by the utility at any
site served by the water utility shall be made to and paid by the property
owner(s) of record of that site as best determinable by the Water Utility
Superintendent. Water service shall not be provided to the property owner(s) of
record if there are any arrears unpaid for 60 days until all arrears in
payments are paid with penalties.
      (5)   No person(s) shall at any time or in any manner enter into or
manipulate the mechanisms within the water meter, nor turn on or off any
mechanism placed by the water utility placed at any site without the expressed
written permission of the Water Utility Superintendent.
   (D)   Violation enforcement and penalties. Failure to pay the water tap fee
or the sewage tap fee, or if utility fees are unpaid for 60 days or more, is
considered a violation of this section, which will cause utility service to be
disconnected and the town will pursue collection which shall also include the
cost of recovery, including attorney’s fees, other cost of collection and
recording fees.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-7-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1) Any tap into a sewer under the provisions of §
51.06(C)(1) shall result in a fine of $100 per day of unapproved access to the
said sewer.
      (2)   Accessing town’s water utility water without proper authorization
by the Water Utility Superintendent or the Town Manager, as described in §
51.06(C)(3), shall result in a fine of $100 per incident.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-7-2019)
APPENDIX A: WATER UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
   (A)   Inside users. For the use and the service provided by the water
utility of the town, the following are rates and charges based upon the amount
of water supplied by said water utility.
      (1)   Metered rates per month.
Inside Users
Usage Per 1,000 Gallons
      Phase I (Effective through the end of 2024)
Inside Users
Usage               Per 1,000 Gallons
                    Phase I (Effective through the end of 2024)
First 2,000 gallons $17.56
Next 4,000          $15.82
Next 8,000          $14.04
Next 16,000         $12.30
Next 30,000         $10.50
Next 60,000         $7.94
Over 120,000        $5.28
 
      (2)    Monthly minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed for which the
user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule.
Inside Users
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Minimum Monthly Rates
                                      Charge
Inside Users
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Minimum Monthly Rates
                                      Charge
5/8” to 3/42,000                   $35.12
1”          3,378                   $56.92
1 1/4”      5,333                   $87.84
1 1/2”      8,025                   $126.80
2”          13,725                  $206.82
3”          25,457                  $351.56
4”          58,033                  $701.62
6”          101,681                 $1,053.30
 
      (3)   Fire protection service. Property owners/landlords are responsible
for repairs to any leak past the meter pit unless specified in an agreement
between the lessor and lessee.
 
Inside Users
Service (per Hydrant, per Annum) Charge
Private hydrants                 $1,500
 
      (4)   Private fire protection. Hydrant fees will be billed by the Clerk-
Treasurer at the beginning of each calendar year.
 
Inside Users
Size of Connection (per Connection, per Annum) Charge
6”                                           $2,000
8”                                           $3,000
 
   (B)   Outside user rates. Outside user rates reflect a surcharge of 25%
above inside user rates.
      (1)   Metered rates per month.
Outside Users
Metered Rates Per Month Price Per 1,000 Gallons
Outside Users
Metered Rates Per Month Price Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons     $21.96
Next 4,000              $19.78
Next 8,000              $17.56
Next 16,000             $15.38
Next 30,000             $13.12
Next 60,000             $9.92
Over 120,000            $6.60
 
      (2)   Monthly minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed for which the
user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule.
Outside Users
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Charge
Outside Users
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Charge
5/8” to 3/42,000                   $43.92
1”          3,378                   $71.18
1 1/4”      5,333                   $109.84
1 1/2”      8,025                   $158.58
2”          13,725                  $258.66
3”          25,457                  $439.64
4”          58,033                  $877.10
6”          101,681                 $1,316.44
 
      (3)   Fire protection service. Property owners/landlords are responsible
for repairs to any leak past the meter pit unless specified in an agreement
between the lessor and lessee.
 
Inside Users
Service (per Hydrant, per Annum) Charge
Private hydrants                 $1,875
 
      (4)   Private fire protection. Hydrant fees will be billed by the Clerk-
Treasurer at the beginning of each calendar year.
 
Inside Users
Size of Connection (per Connection, per Annum) Charge
6”                                           $2,500
8”                                           $3,750
 
      (5)   Non-recurring charges. Refer to Appendices
B and
C.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 7-2015, passed 8-22-2015; Ord. 5-2024,
passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 6-2024, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 17-2024, passed 11-19-
2024; Ord. 18-2024, passed 12-19-2024)
APPENDIX B: NON-RECURRING CHARGES
Non-Recurring Charges Amount
Non-Recurring Charges Amount
Returned check fee    $30
Late fee              10% of past due amount
Meter deposit         $120
Meter rehabilitation  $30
Meter removal         $30
Reconnection fee      $30
Water tap fees
 5/8” through 3/4$700
 1”                $800
 2”                $3,000
 3”                $3,500
 
(Ord. 8-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 7-2015, passed 8-22-2015; Ord. 5-2024,
passed 3-19-2024)
APPENDIX C: SUMMARY OF CAPACITY FEES BY METER SIZE
 
Municipal Water Utility Summary of Capacity Fees by Meter Size
Year       3/41”   1 1/41 1/22”   3”    4”    6”    8”    10”   12”
2012 and   $785 $1,963 $3,140 $3,925 $6,280 $11,775 $19,625 $39,250 $62,800 $90,275 $168,775
thereafter
 
(Ord. 8-2008, passed -10-2008; Ord. 7-2015, passed 8-22-2015)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
52.01   Terms and conditions
   
52.02   Rates
   
52.03   Exceptions
   
52.04   Definitions
   
52.05   Applicability of chapter and general provisions
§ 52.01 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All garbage and rubbish involving residential and commercial users
shall be picked up weekly at a time to be determined by the current service
provider and approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   All garbage and rubbish involving residential users shall be bagged
and placed in one 96-gallon container, provided by the contracted servicer.
Additional containers may be obtained directly from the service provider.
   (C)   Allowable garbage and rubbish shall be determined by the service
provider.
   (D)   Containers shall be placed at least three feet from any poles,
mailboxes, vehicles, or any other item on collection day.
   (E)   Containers shall not be kept/stored on sidewalks, streets and/or
public rights-of-way on any day other than the night prior to and day of the
specified trash pickup day as needed for trash removal.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 52.02 RATES.
   (A)   All residential users shall pay the sum of $19.15 per month, which
shall be added by the Town Clerk to the monthly utility bill and shall be
charged one month in advance. Rates shall be based on the current contracted
price as approved by the Upland Town Council. Contracts will be rebid from time
to time to ensure the lowest rates to our residents.
   (B)   All commercial establishments will be charged the sum of $19.15 per
month, which shall be added by the Town Clerk to the monthly utility bill and
shall be charged one month in advance. Each commercial establishment may be
additionally charged for any additional bags or containers to be picked up
which shall be added to the standard rate for commercial users which will be
assessed for each utility bill by the Town Clerk. Rates shall be based on the
current contracted price as approved by the Town Council. Contracts will be
rebid from time to time to ensure the lowest rates to our residents.
   (C)   All bills shall be due and payable on the twentieth day of the month
following the billing date. A 10% late penalty charge will be assessed on the
unpaid balance on the twenty-first of each month.
   (D)   If a bill remains unpaid for more than 60 days, the town may
discontinue service and may collect the provided container until account has
been brought current or payment arrangements have been made with the Utility
Clerk. A $20 fee must be paid to reestablish trash collection service.
   (E)   Customers must notify the Utility Clerk and/or Town Clerk prior to the
twenty-first of the month to cancel service to avoid being billed for the
following month.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 5-1995, passed 9-13-1995; Ord. 6-2008, passed 6-25-
2008; Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-9-2011; Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 52.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any commercial users which must have pickup of garbage or rubbish for
five or more days per week because of the nature of their commercial enterprise
shall be exempt from purposes of this chapter and shall be entitled to procure
their own independent trash service.
   (B)   All commercial users, mobile home parks, civic organizations and
apartment buildings with three or more units, shall be entitled to exempt
itself from participation in the pickup of garbage and rubbish by the town.
Such exemption requests must be made in writing to the Clerk's office. The
exemption will thereafter be considered automatic until such time as the
commercial user, mobile home park, civic organization or apartment building
with three or more units shall notify the Clerk in writing of their desire to
participate under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 52.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL USER. For purposes of this chapter, including any building or any
other structure, whether permanent or nonpermanent, which currently has a water
meter or is provided sewage disposal hook-up by the town, but does not meet the
definition of a residential user.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Includes any home, dwelling, mobile home, modular home,
apartment, duplex, or any other form of structure which is used for human
habitation whether or not such structure is served by its own individual water
meter and/or sewage hook-up. For purposes of the definition herein, a
residential user shall apply to each unit which is inhabited by a separate
family unit so that a single-family dwelling shall count as one residential
unit, each apartment unit shall count as one residential user, a duplex shall
count as two residential units and the same arrangement shall apply for any
other dwellings which may be utilities in any manner for multiple usage.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 52.05 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any sums of monies collected as rates and fees under §
52.02 shall be deposited in the Trash and Garbage Utility Fund and shall
maintain a balance sufficient to pay all current obligations to the town's
trash provider.
   (B)   Any excess balance may be transferred by a majority vote to any other
accounts which may be determined as appropriate by the Town Council, or they
may elect to grant a credit to the residential and commercial users in an
amount to reduce the excess balance.
   (C)   The town may conduct a review of their customers to ensure that this
chapter is being adhered to.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY ACCOUNTS
Section
   
53.01   Write-off policy
§ 53.01 WRITE-OFF POLICY.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes a policy to write off accounts with the
town’s Water and Sewage Utility and Sanitation that cannot be collected.
   (B)   The following policy exists when one or more of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The delinquent account is at least 12 months past due;
      (2)   The delinquent account holder as filed bankruptcy;
      (3)   A lien has been filed against the sewage arrears; and
      (4)   The utility is unable to collect the delinquent account due to
circumstances beyond the control of the utilities.
   (C)   A list of delinquent accounts for write-offs will be prepared by the
Clerk-Treasurer and presented to the Council for approval at least once per
calendar year, if applicable.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 3-30-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Stop and yield signs
   
70.02   Parking requirements
   
70.03   Road tractors and semi-trailers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Authority. The Council, acting within the reasonable exercise of its
police power, adopts the following regulations governing certain road and
streets under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, street cars, vehicles and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purpose
of travel.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary roads or tracks.
   (C)   Stop intersections. Traffic entering the intersections set forth in
Ch. 72 of this traffic code shall stop in accordance with I.C. 9-21-1 before
proceeding on the designated through street.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
§ 70.02 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Except where angle parking is permitted by an ordinance of the town, for
streets under local control of the town and by order of the state’s Highway
Commission on streets and highways in the state highway system located in the
town, every vehicle stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle
parallel with and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ROAD TRACTORS AND SEMI- TRAILERS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated
any road tractor or semi-trailer upon the streets, bridges or culverts within
the town, except on designated and marked town truck routes, as hereinafter
described. It is also a violation this section for any vehicle having a gross
weight in excess of four tons to travel upon or across any streets, alleys,
drives or any portion thereof.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or cause to be parked any
road tractor or semi-trailer upon the stress, bridges or alleys within the
town.
   (C)   The restrictions on operating and parking road tractors and semi-
trailers set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above shall not be applicable to
road tractors and semi-trailers delivering or picking up goods and property at
places not located on designated and marked town truck routs; provided, such
road tractors and semi-trailers are only operated by the shortest way possible
between the designed and marked town truck route and the place of delivery or
pickup or as otherwise directed by a police officer and that a reasonable time
is used for the pickup or delivery of goods in questions. The restriction set
out is not applicable to refuse or garbage trucks regularly operating within
the town while in the process of picking up refuse and garbage from the
residences and business places within the town.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROAD TRACTOR. A vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and
not constructed to carry any load independently.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle with or without motive power, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
   (E)   The Town Council may, by resolution from time to time, designate truck
routes where deemed appropriate and add signage to that effect. The Street
Department is also authorized to place signs indicating weight limits or
restrictions where necessary.
   (F)   This section does not effect the use of any state highway or state
maintained route within the town by trucks and buses for any lawful purpose,
and those vehicles may use the route for passing through the town or for
parking unless that use is further restricted by the state’s Department of
Highways.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed - -2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or person who shall be legally charged with a violation of
the provisions of §
70.02 of this chapter shall be fined $20.
(Prior Code, § 72.99)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
70.03 of this chapter for which a penalty is not already otherwise provided
shall pay an assessment of $25, paid within 72 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   In the event that any person who is charged with a violation under
§
70.03 of this chapter fails to pay as above provided, such person shall be
charged in Town Court and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25,
nor more than $500.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of Ch. 72 of this traffic
code commits an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $100, which shall be deposited in the General Fund.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who is accused of violating Ch. 72 of this traffic
code may settle and compromise the claim against that person by paying $20 to
the Clerk-Treasurer if that is the first violation charged against that person
during that calendar year, or by paying $50 if the violation is the second or
subsequent violation charged against that person during that calendar year.
         (b)   Moving violations shall be subject to a fine of $50 per
violation.
         (c)   Any settlement under this division (D) must be made by paying
the required sum the Clerk-Treasurer no later than 30 days after the time of
the violation set forth on the citation. The Clerk- Treasurer shall issue a
receipt for the settlement money and deposit it in the town’s General Fund. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall advise the town’s Police Department of this settlement.
         (d)   If settlement is not paid within 30 days, the ordinance
violation shall be referred to the Town Attorney for collection and payment of
court costs.
         (e)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall report all moving violations to the
state and shall deem these violations to be convictions pursuant to state code.
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of Ch. 73 of this traffic code
commits an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, may be fined as set forth
in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 75.99)
(Ord. 5-2006, passed - -2006; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Registration required
   
71.02   Age of operator
   
71.03   Financial responsibility
   
71.04   Equipment
   
71.05   Speed limit
   
71.06   Prohibited operation
   
71.07   Compliance with traffic laws
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The owners or lessees of golf carts must register the golf cart annually
with the town on or before January 1, and an annual registration fee of $15 be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall deposit into the Continuing Education
Fund, after inspection by the town’s Police Department verifying the golf cart
is insured and equipped as required by §§
71.03 and
71.04 of this chapter, shall issue a certificate of registration (“permit”) and
numerical tags which numerical tags shall be prominently attached to and
displaced on the front and rear of the golf cart. The permit must be in the
golf cart or in the possession of the person operating the golf cart at all
times such golf cart is in operation on the streets or thoroughfares of the
town.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 AGE OF OPERATOR.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid motor vehicle driver’s
license may operate golf carts within the town limits.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The financial responsibility of the owner, lessee or operator
notwithstanding, the golf cart must be covered by liability insurance coverage
in an amount not less than provided in state statutes for motor vehicles
operated on public thoroughfares in the state.
   (B)   Proof of such liability coverage must be available on the cart
operated by the operator at all times the golf cart in operated on the streets
or thoroughfares of the town.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 71.04 EQUIPMENT.
   The golf cart must be equipped with two operating headlights (one on each
side of the front of the golf cart), taillights (one on each side of the rear
of the golf cart) visible from a distance of 500 feet, brake lights, turn
signals, rear view mirror and slow moving vehicle placard shall be prominently
displayed on the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   Golf carts may be operated on streets or thoroughfares within the town on
which the speed limit is 30 mph or less.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 71.06 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks and on State Highway 22,
except to cross the said state highway in a path 90 degrees to the state
highway; provided, however, golf carts may be operated on State Highway 22 in
connection with and during the court of such special events as may be from time
to time determined and so designated by the town.
   (B)   Occupants of a golf cart in operation on the town streets or
thoroughfares shall be limited to the number of persons for whom factory
seating is installed on the cart. Occupants of the golf cart, including the
operator, shall be seated in the cart and no part of the body of the operator
or an occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the cart while in
operation.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS.
   All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by state
statues governing the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner, or lessee, of a golf cart, who applies for a permit
to operate the golf cart within the town, as hereinabove provided in §
71.01 of this chapter, shall agree to be responsible, jointly and severely,
with any person who is permitted to operate the golf cart, for any injury or
damages the operator caused by reason of the operation of the golf cart if such
operator is liable for such damages.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter shall constitute a violation. An owner, lessee or
operator may be cited to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction by the
issuance of a state uniform traffic ticket. Upon a finding by such court that
an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart has violated any provision or
provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter, such person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$100 for each offense, along with court costs; and, in addition, the permit, as
hereinabove provided, may be subject to suspension or revocation; provided,
however, in the event that two or more offenses constituting violations of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter occur within one year of a first offense, the permit to
operate the golf cart shall be revoked and may not be reissued for a period of
one year.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessee of the golf
cart to comply with the provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter. The failure to comply with those requirements of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter by the owner or lessee of the golf cart. It shall be the
responsibility of the operator of the golf cart to comply with the provision of
§§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter (including specifically responsibility for the actions of
all occupants) set forth in §
71.07 of this chapter. The failure to comply with the requirements set forth in
§§
71.05 through
71.07 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of §§
71.01 through
71.07 of this chapter by the operator.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 6- -2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop streets
      
II.   Yield streets
      
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   General. Traffic entering the following intersections on a street
designated as a stop street shall stop before proceeding on the designated
through street:
Street Intersection
Street               Intersection
Anson Street         Half Street
Anson Street         Main Street
Bluebird Lane        Berry Avenue
Bragg Avenue         Main Street
Catalina Drive       Eighth Street
CR 600 South         CR 800 East
CR 650 South         CR 800 East
CR 700 East          CR 600 South
CR 800 East          CR 700 South
East Street          Anson Street
East Street          Washington Street
East Street          Urban Street
First Street         Anson Street
First Street         Indiana Avenue
First Street         Payne Avenue
First Street         Railroad Street
First Street         Reade Avenue
First Street         Spence Avenue
First Street         Taylor Avenue
First Street         Thoburn Avenue
First Street         Urban Street
First Street         Washington Street
Fourth Street        Indiana Avenue
Fourth Street        North Street
Fourth Street        South Street
Garfield Street      Main Street
Grant Street         Anson Street
Grant Street         Railroad Street
Grant Street         Urban Street
Grant Street         Washington Street
Grant Street         Railroad Street
Harsax Drive         Eighth Street
Hope Drive           Main Street
Hope Drive           Berry Avenue
Indiana Avenue       Main Street
Jefferson Street     Fifth Street
Jefferson Street     Main Street
Jefferson Street     Eighth Street
Joway Court          Third Street
Joyce Avenue         First Street
Joyce Avenue         Second Street
Joyce Avenue         Main Street
Lake Street          CR 500 South
McCabe Avenue        Main Street
McCabe Avenue        Second Street
McCabe Avenue        Third Street
Michigan Avenue      Main Street
Montgomery Street    Main Street
North Street         Eighth Street
North Street         Second Street
Park Avenue          Washington Street
Payne Avenue         Second Street
Payne Avenue         Main Street
Payne Avenue         Third Street
Railroad Street      Main Street
Railroad Street      Second Street
Reade Avenue         Main Street
Second Street        Anson Street
Second Street        Washington Street
Silverman Boulevard  Berry Avenue
Sixth Street         Indiana Avenue
Sixth Street         North Street
South Street         Eighth Street
South Street         Second Street
Spencer Avenue       Main Street
Taylor Avenue        Third Street
Third Street         Anson Street
Third Street         Jefferson Street
Third Street         Anson Street
Third Street         Indiana Avenue
Third Street         Jefferson Street
Third Street         North Street
Third Street         South Street
Third Street         Washington Street
Thoburn Avenue       Third Street
Thoburn Avenue       Third Street
Thoburn Avenue       Second Street
Thoburn Avenue       Main Street
University Boulevard Reade Avenue
Urban Street         Half Street
Urban Street         Main Street
Valhalla Street      Eighth Street
Washington Street    Main Street
Wright Avenue        First Street
Wright Avenue        Main Street
Wright Avenue        Third Street
 
   (B)   All-way stops. The following intersections of streets, avenues and
drives shall be designated all way stop intersections:
Street Intersection
Street         Intersection
Berry Avenue   Main Street
Eighth Street  Indiana Street
Eighth Street  Washington Street
Eighth Street  Berry Avenue
Fifth Street   Indiana Avenue
Fifth Street   South Street
First Street   McCabe Avenue
Fourth Street  Washington Street
Half Street    Washington Street
Hodson Avenue  Eight Street
Indiana Avenue Second Street
North Street   Fifth Street
Overlook Drive Eighth Street
Reade Avenue   Eighth Street
Second Street  Berry Avenue
Second Street  Jefferson Street
Second Street  Spenser Avenue
Second Street  Taylor Street
Second Street  Reade Avenue
Third Street   Berry Street
Third Street   Joyce Avenue
Third Street   Reade Avenue
Third Street   Spencer Avenue
Wright Avenue  Second Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015; Res. 5-2024,
passed 11-19-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. YIELD STREETS.
   Traffic at the following intersections of streets, avenues or drives, on the
street shown opposite the designated as the “yield” street, shall yield at the
intersection:
 
Yield Street    Intersection
Bluebird Court  Bluebird Lane
Hess Drive      Silverman Boulevard
Ninth Street    Indiana Street
Oak Court       Park Avenue
Orchard Lane    Park Avenue
Warkentin Court Valhalla Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. II) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on all streets, within the corporate limits of the town
excluding school zones and those streets specifically designated below, shall
be 25 mph. However, nothing herein shall be construed so as to impose by this
schedule any speed limit upon any state highway within the corporate limits of
the town which is governed by state imposed speed limits.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street          Location                                           Speed Limit
600 South       From 8th Street West to 700 East From Main Street  35 mph
                to town limit east
650 South       From 800 East to 8th Street                        35 mph
700 South       From 800 East to 8th Street                        35 mph
800 East        From town limit north to 700 South                 35 mph
8th Street      From State Road 22 to 700 South                    30 mph
Catalina Drive                                                    10 mph
Main Street     From town limit south to Indiana Street from north 35 mph
                of Urban Street
Over Look Drive From 8th Street to Main Street                     35 mph
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. III) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see
§
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Parking restricted
      
III.   Truck parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, place or stand any vehicle in any of the following
places:
Street Location Side
Street            Location                                               Side
                 Any non-curbed street                                  All
                 Seeded and non-paved area adjacent to Baseball Complex
                 Within 20 feet of an intersection                      All
First Street      From Reade Avenue to Wright Street                     Both
Jefferson Street  From Fifth Street to Eight Street                      South
Joyce Street      From west line of Main Street to east line of          Both
                  University Boulevard
Railroad Street   From Main Street to an alley one-half block east of    North
                  First Street
Reade Avenue      From the west side of Main Street to the east side of  North
                  Eighth Street
Second Street     From the north line of Reade Avenue to the north line  Both
                  of Jefferson Street
Third Street      From Reade Avenue to Wright Street                     Both
Washington Street From east line of Main Street to a point 30 feet east  Both
                  of the east line of Main Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Schd. I) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 10-2024,
passed 5-21-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park, place or stand any vehicle for more than two hours in
any of the following places listed below:
 
Street      Location                      Time
Main Street From Railroad Avenue to Urban 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except for
            Street                        Sundays and holidays
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Schd. II) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 10-2024,
passed 5-21-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle having more than one rear axle and an empty vehicle weight of
more than 8,000 pounds shall park or stop on any town street or alley, except
for the purpose of making deliveries for picking up goods. Said vehicles making
deliveries or picking up goods shall park within 50 feet of the site of the
delivery or pickup and shall not remain stopped for more than two hours.
(Ord. 2013-10, passed 11-19-2013; Ord. 10-2024, passed 5-21-2024) Penalty, see
§
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Enforcement procedure
   
90.04   Written notice to remove
   
90.05   Fees and expenses
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council, recognizing the existence of abandoned and junk vehicles
and vehicles constituting a nuisance in the yards of residences within the town
and in open lots and those encroaching upon the rights-of-way of streets,
alleys and highways within the town, and the Town Council being desirous to
obtain and enforce the removal of such vehicles in order to protect the general
welfare of the town and its citizens, the Town Council does hereby and herewith
declare such abandoned and junk vehicles to be nuisances.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES. Any one of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle illegally located on public property;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by towing service or public agency
upon request of an officer enforcing a statue or ordinance other than this
chapter if the vehicle removed is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the
owner’s agent within 15 business days of the vehicle’s removal; and/or
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least six model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   INOPERABLE CONDITION. All types of motor driven vehicles used or usable for
the conveyance of persons or property which is unable to move under its own
power due to defective or missing parts and which has remained in such
condition for a continuous period of not less than ten consecutive days. Such a
motor vehicle shall also include all types of motor- driven vehicles, although
able to move under its own power that is in such a condition due to defective
or missing parts as to be dangerous or unfit for further use as a conveyance
upon the public highways.
   NUISANCE. Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and to
children attracted by the same, motor vehicles in an inoperative condition and
motor vehicles unfit for further use that are situated within the corporation
limits of the town and which are not inside a garage or other building are
hereby declared and defined to be a nuisance, except when such motor vehicle is
within a lawfully operated junk yard or yard lawfully operated for the storage
of vehicles awaiting permission for junking from the state’s Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Any member of the town’s Police Department is designated to enforce this
chapter within the town.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 90.04 WRITTEN NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Written notice giving five days to remove such motor vehicle shall be placed
upon the motor vehicle to be removed. When convenient, copies of said written
notice shall be served upon any adult occupying the real estate upon which such
motor vehicle is located or upon the record owner of such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 90.05 FEES AND EXPENSES.
   The town may charge any expenses incurred by it in the enforcement of this
chapter, including all towing and storage charges to the owner or occupant of
the real estate upon which that vehicle is located or unto the owner of the
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any order to remove an abandoned or junk
vehicle issued under this chapter shall be deemed to have committed an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction, the owner of the abandoned or junk
vehicle or the occupant of the real estate upon which that vehicle is located
and/or owner of that real estate shall be fined $50, plus the court costs of
the enforcement of this chapter. Each day a violation occurs or continues after
the expiration date of the order to remove such vehicle shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Scope
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Prohibited animals generally
   
91.04   Rabies vaccination
   
91.05   Finding of rabies; quarantine
   
91.06   Treatment and care of animals
   
91.07   Use of ropes, chains or cords
   
91.08   Impoundment
   
91.09   Enclosures
   
91.10   Potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.11   Dangerous animals; special permit
   
91.12   Vicious animals
   
91.13   Traps as a nuisance
   
91.14   Removal of dead animals
   
91.15   Unlawful use of dog
   
91.16   Lost or stray domestic animals
   
91.17   Habitual offender
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   County Area Plan Animal Ordinance. To the extent that the town is
included in the County Area Plan Title IX, General Regulations: Animals
(Chapter 90) Ordinance, the County Area Plan Ordinance shall control when this
chapter and the County Area Plan Ordinance are in conflict. As long as the
provisions of this chapter do not conflict with the County Area Plan Ordinance
or the County Area Plan Ordinance does not apply, this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Revocation of prior animal ordinance. The ordinance codified within
this chapter, being Ordinance 2021-4, revokes prior Ordinance 2017-1 (passed on
January 3, 2017) in its entirety. This chapter shall control until it is
amended and/or revoked.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. If a person knowingly, intentionally, recklessly or with
criminal negligence leaves a domestic animal, including equine, bovine, swine,
fowl, or any and all sentient beings at a location without providing adequate
care.
   ANIMAL. Any living, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICE. The persons, partnership, corporation, association
or society designated by the Council to assist in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by Marion Animal Care and Control, a
municipal agency or its authorized agents, or any premises designated by the
town as a site for impounding and caring for animals confined under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. Elsewhere than on the owner’s premises, and:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling such animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Law enforcement officer or authorized animal control
officer.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family of animals.
   COYDOG. Includes:
      (1)   An animal that is the offspring of a coyote and another animal; or
      (2)   An animal that is the offspring of:
         (a)   An animal that is the offspring of a coyote and another animal;
and
         (b)   Another animal.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mammal, amphibian, fish, reptile or fowl of a species, which,
due to size, vicious nature or other characteristics, constitutes a danger to
human life or physical well-being, or to other animals;
      (2)   Any animal having a known disposition or propensity to attack, bite
or injure any person or animal without provocation. An official record of
Animal Control, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, Police Department or the Clerk of any
court which indicates that an animal has bitten or attacked any person or
animal constitutes prima facie evidence that the animal is a DANGEROUS ANIMAL;
      (3)   Any animal owned or kept primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting, or any animal trained or bred for fighting; and
      (4)   Any animal which is urged by its owner or keeper to attack, or
whose owner or keeper threatens to cause the animal to attack any law
enforcement officer when the officer is engaged in the performance of official
duty and when the animal has the apparent ability to cause injury or harm to
the officer.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family of animals.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. Refers to the Town Marshal, or as appointed by the
Council.
   HARBOR. The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard,
place of business or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three days.
   IDENTIFICATION. Bearing either a microchip, rabies tag, tattoo or tag
bearing the owner’s name, address and/or telephone number.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to an animal shelter.
   INTACT/UNALTERED ANIMAL. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury made with the teeth, fangs or claws of any
animal that results in a minor puncture, piercing or breaking of the skin and
does not require extensive medical treatment.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owning, harboring or keeping any animal. This
shall not include a person hired or acting as custodian for an animal for its
owner.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, organization or
corporation.
   PIT BULL DOG. Any and all of the following dogs:
      (1)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed;
      (2)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed;
      (3)   The American pit bull terrier breed;
      (4)   Any other breed commonly known as pit bull, pit bull dog or pit
bull terrier; or
      (5)   Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breed of dogs known as the above listed breeds of dogs.
The registration of a dog at any time as any of the dogs listed above shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the dog is a pit bull dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, engages in any behavior that
requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily injury, when the
person and the dog are off the owner’s property;
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person, causing a “less
severe injury”;
      (3)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted injury or otherwise caused injury in attacking a domestic animal off
the property of the owner or keeper of the dog;
      (4)   Any dog that chases or menaces a person; or
      (5)   Any dog that runs at large.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal(s) that:
      (1)   Attacks passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Damages public or private property;
      (3)   Is not confined when in estrus (‘heat’); or
      (4)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or unreasonable
manner under the circumstances, as to violate the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
   REGISTERED DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any pit bull dogs, wolf hybrids, coydogs or an
animal for which a permit has been properly obtained within 30 days of the
effective date of this chapter and in accordance with the special permit
requirements.
   RESTRAINT. Confinement to the premises of the owner, being outside those
premises while accompanied by a responsible person keeping control of the
animal, being on a leash or chain, or confinement in a fenced-in area.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   VICIOUS DOG/ANIMAL. Any dog or animal that has been determined, without
provocation, has:
      (1)   Aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered or inflicted severe
injury or death on a human being on public or private property;
      (2)   Attacked and injured other domestic animals;
      (3)   Bitten one or more persons who are lawfully inside the dog’s
enclosure;
      (4)   Attempted to climb over, dig under, chew through, break or
otherwise escape from its enclosure in an attempt to attack, chase or harass a
person or another domestic animal as observed by a person charged with
enforcing this chapter;
      (5)   Been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting or
is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (6)   Been identified as a potentially dangerous dog and exhibits
behavior warranting listing as a vicious dog.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any non-domesticated animal, with the exception of small, non-
poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small, caged birds.
   WOLF HYBRID. Including:
      (1)   An animal that is the offspring of a wolf and another animal; or
      (2)   An animal that is the offspring of:
         (a)   An animal that is the offspring of a wolf and another animal;
and
         (b)   Another animal.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, keep or maintain cows,
swine, horses, sheep, goats or ducks within the limits of the town in any area
consisting of less than three acres, except in an agricultural district.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor a vicious
dog or wild animal within the town. This division shall not apply to animals
under the control of law enforcement or a military agency.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the town any
feeding lots or barns for the stabling and feeding of any cattle, dairy cattle
or hogs, for feeding or dairying purposes; or to erect or maintain any stock
pens to be used for feeding pens or lots for cattle or hogs. All pens for these
purposes are declared a nuisance and dangerous to the public health to the
citizens of the town.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep a dog or cat over the age of three months
unless such dog or cat is immunized against rabies by a vaccination performed
by a veterinarian and the period of immunization specified by the veterinarian
performing the vaccination has not expired. Each owner of a dog or cat older
than three months must procure a rabies vaccination for the animal, which is
administered by a licensed veterinarian. The rabies vaccination must be
obtained annually unless a three-year vaccination is administered. The dog or
cat must wear the rabies vaccination tag at all times.
   (B)   If an unvaccinated animal causes bodily injury to another person or
animal, the fine shall be as stated in §
91.99, and the enforcement authority shall petition the Court to conduct a
vicious dog hearing relating to the animal.
   (C)   A person who knowingly or intentionally harbors an animal that is over
the age of three months and not immunized against rabies, commits harboring a
non-immunized dog, a Class C infraction. However, the offense is a Class B
misdemeanor if the dog causes bodily injury by biting a person.
   (D)   Whenever an authorized agent has reasonable cause to suspect that an
animal has been exposed to rabies, or bitten or exposed a person to rabies
through a non-bite exposure, such animal shall be surrendered by its owner for
quarantine and observation promptly upon demand by the authorized agent. Such
quarantine and observation shall be at the animal owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 FINDING OF RABIES; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When an animal quarantined has been found rabid, or is suspected of
being rabid, and dies while under observation, an authorized agent shall notify
the proper public health officials of reports of human contacts made by, and
the diagnosis made of, the animal.
   (B)   When a rabies report is made under this chapter, an authorized agent
shall recommend to the enforcement authority of the town a general quarantine
in the town for a period of thirty days. Upon invocation of the general
quarantine by the town, any animal found at large may be destroyed, if
necessary, without being impounded. During the quarantine period, every animal
bitten or exposed through non-bite exposure by an animal adjudged to be rabid,
shall be confined at its owner’s expense or destroyed as specified by the
Enforcement Authority.
   (C)   During a general quarantine declared by the town under this chapter,
an animal’s owner or keeper who resists the quarantining authority or who
permits an animal owned or kept by that person to be at large shall be fined.
Any animal which is suspected of being rabid or is in violation of the general
quarantine shall be impounded immediately.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.05
§ 91.06 TREATMENT AND CARE OF ANIMALS.
   Every person responsible for any animal located within the town shall ensure
that the animal:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so
as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in excrement.
   (B)   Has sufficient good and wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species;
   (C)   Has proper shelter;
      (1)   (a)   Proper shelter shall mean a structure of at least three sides
and a roof which is located on dry ground that is mud free and kept in a
sanitary manner;
         (b)   The shelter must protect the animal from all elements of the
weather and allow the animal to stand, sit and lie down without restriction;
      (2)   No person shall leave an animal outside, exposed to the elements,
for any amount of time that said exposure would become dangerous to the
animal’s health. An animal must be brought inside a temperature-controlled
building when:
         (a)   The temperature is 32ºF and below;
         (b)   The temperature is 85ºF and above;
         (c)   There is a heat advisory;
         (d)   There is a wind chill warning; or
         (e)   A severe thunderstorm/tornado warning has been issued.
   (D)   Receives proper veterinary care as necessary to treat illness, disease
and/or injury, to prevent the transmission of disease to other animals or human
beings and to promote good animal health;
      (1)   Veterinary care will include proper grooming and vaccinations for
rabies;
      (2)   No person other than a licensed veterinarian shall perform tail
docking, ear cropping or spaying/neutering on any animal;
   (E)   Is not beaten, cruelly treated, overloaded, overworked or otherwise
abused.
   (F)   Is not abandoned, neglected or tortured;
   (G)   Does not, unprovoked, bite, kick, butt, claw, assault, attack or
otherwise create a danger to the health and/or safety of other animals or human
beings;
   (H)   Is prevented from running at large on property other than private
property owned or lawfully occupied by its owner by means of a leash, chain or
other appropriate physical restraint;
   (I)   Is not left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal;
   (J)   Is not transported in the open bed of a vehicle unless confined in an
appropriate manner, so as to reasonably prevent the animal from jumping or
being thrown from same;
   (K)   Does not defecate on the property of another unless the person
responsible for the animal immediately thereafter removes or has removed from
the property as much of the feces as is reasonably possible; and
   (L)   Is not incited, trained to fight (other than a crime prevention dog)
or set to fighting another animal or a human.
      (1)   No person shall build, make, maintain or possess animal fighting
paraphernalia, or keep a fighting pit on his or her premises.
      (2)   No person shall, in any manner, encourage, instigate, promote or
assist in any exhibition of animal fighting or intentional combat between
animals.
      (3)   No person shall charge admission, be an assistant or participant,
or be present to any exhibition of an animal fight or combat.
      (4)   No person shall violate the provisions of I.C. 35-46-3. Violations
of that chapter shall be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of state
law as contained therein.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 USE OF ROPES, CHAINS OR CORDS.
   No animal shall be tied or fastened by any rope, chain or cord except under
the direct supervision of the animal’s owner. Restrained animals must wear a
properly fitted collar or harness made of leather or nylon, not of the choker-
type. This is not to prohibit the proper use of choker collars in the training
of animals. The tying device shall be attached to the animal’s collar or
harness. If a chain is used, the chain shall not have a total weight of more
than one-eighth of the restrained animal’s body weight.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animals found abandoned or in cruel, abusive or neglectful situations
may be promptly impounded if no immediate contact with a responsible person can
be made. The impounding officer shall leave written notice on the premises
notifying the owner of the reason for the impoundment.
   (B)   Animals so removed will be impounded and held at an animal control
facility until such time the violator is in compliance with this chapter;
provided, however, that in no event shall this period exceed three days, at
which time the animal shall become the property of the animal control
authority, unless an extension is necessary for the Animal Control Officer to
have ample time to prepare a court case if prosecution is warranted.
   (C)   In the case of animals impounded for quarantine at an animal control
facility, the animal will become property of the animal control facility if not
claimed by closing time on the eleventh day of quarantine.
   (D)   Animals impounded for reasons beyond the control of the owner (e.g.,
house fire, death of owner, and the like) will be held for ten days, during
which time a reasonable effort will be made to contact the owner and/or a
family member or representative. After the tenth day of impoundment, the animal
will become the property of the animal control facility.
   (E)   An animal awaiting disposition by the court shall remain in the
custody of the animal control facility, until such disposition is made, or
placed in a foster home until legal arrangements have been completed.
   (F)   Animals so removed may be transported to a licensed veterinarian for
examination and/or treatment. If, in the opinion of the veterinarian, the
animal must be destroyed, euthanasia will be performed immediately. The cost of
treatment, care and/or euthanasia shall be the responsibility of the owner/
agent.
   (G)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a fee to the town or
any organization holding the animal at the town’s request. That fee shall be
equal to the actual cost of housing the animal, not to exceed $50 per day.
   (H)   Upon the impoundment of an animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made
to notify and inform the owner of the requirements for regaining the custody of
the animal. Such attempt shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   In the instance of an impounded dog or cat, contact with the owner
identified by the microchip or other permanent means of identification, if any,
borne by the dog or cat;
      (2)   In the instance of an impounded dog or cat not bearing a permanent
means of identification, contact with the veterinarian facility listed on the
animal’s vaccination tag; and/or
      (3)   Cooperation of effort with other governmental and private agencies,
such as an animal control organization or other humane and/or breed rescue
organizations.
   (I)   A person who confines an animal found by that person to be at large
shall notify the town’s Police Department or one of its agents within 48 hours.
   (J)   An animal impounded under this chapter, if claimed by its owner, shall
be returned upon compliance with the following:
      (1)   The owner may obtain the return of such animal upon compliance with
any applicable provisions and the payment of the appropriate impoundment and
kennel fees and any other applicable fees and/or fines; and
      (2)   Prior to the return to its owner, an impounded dog or cat, which
did not bear a permanent means of identification as required, will be implanted
with a microchip containing a registration number. The microchip shall be
implanted by a licensed veterinarian and the fee for the service shall be paid
by the owner at the time of the microchip placing.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Animals kept in enclosures. All animals kept inside or in a pen,
leashed or enclosed by a fence or electric fence shall be kept in a sanitary
manner. No animal shall be kept in feces, mud, water or any debris. The person
responsible for the animal(s) shall regularly maintain all areas of the animal
confinement. It is unlawful for an owner or person in control of an animal to
fail to keep the animal in an adequate enclosure.
   (B)   Housing facilities. Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for animals
shall be maintained so as to contain the animal on the property at all times
and to protect the animal from injury.
   (C)   Storage of food. Supplies of food shall be stored in sealed containers
or other containers which protect the food against insect and vermin
infestation and contamination. Refrigeration shall be provided where necessary
to prevent the spoiling of food.
   (D)   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities for animals shall be ventilated
with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, fans or air-conditioning to
provide for the animals’ health, comfort and well-being and to minimize odors,
drafts, ammonia levels and moisture condensation. Ambient temperature in an
indoor housing facility shall be maintained between 50ºF and 85ºF.
   (E)   Primary enclosures. All primary enclosures for animals shall conform
to the following minimum requirements, except where identified otherwise in
writing by a licensed veterinarian for medical reasons.
      (1)   Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and constructed as
to permit the animal within them to remain dry.
      (2)   The floors that are not a solid surface shall be of an open-weave
construction where the openings are smaller than the size of the flattened foot
of the animal contained inside.
      (3)   Primary enclosures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not
have sharp points or edges that could injure an animal.
      (4)   The following restrictions apply to primary enclosures that house
multiple dogs or cats:
         (a)   Intact females in estrus shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams or surrogate dams;
         (b)   Puppies or kittens shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams or surrogate dams; and
         (c)   Dogs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure as cats,
nor shall dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other
species of animal.
   (F)   Sanitation. Housing facilities shall be cleaned daily. Primary
enclosures, including top, sides, floor, grate and door shall be cleaned with
soap and disinfectant daily.
   (G)   Quarantine. Animals under quarantine or treatment for communicable
diseases shall be housed according to generally accepted veterinary medical
requirements.
   (H)   Dog enclosures. Dog enclosures must conform to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Shall have an outside perimeter that is a minimum height of 48
inches when measured from the ground, or an electric fence. Any portion of a
building that is intended to form part of an enclosure must have a continuous
wall that meets the applicable height requirement;
      (2)   All non-building portions of an enclosure, including gates, shall
be constructed of chain link, welded wire, wrought iron, brick, mortared stone,
concrete block, wood stockade or other similar fencing-type material approved
by the enforcement authority;
      (3)   Where a building forms a part of an enclosure, there shall be a
minimal separation between the building and the remaining parts of the
enclosure to prevent the escape of the animal or animals contained;
      (4)   Shall be designed, erected and maintained in accordance with all
applicable zoning and building regulations; and
      (5)   Broken or damaged portions of an enclosure shall be repaired with
like material and provide a seamless barrier that reasonably inhibits or
prevents escape.
   (I)   Dangerous and vicious animals. Enclosures for potentially dangerous/
vicious dogs; dangerous animals:
      (1)   Must be confined indoors without access to exterior entrances and
windows; or
      (2)   Confined outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen or structure, which
shall be:
         (a)   For extra-large animals (over 26 inches at withers or over 75
pounds): 1.48 square feet;
         (b)   For large animals ( 20 to 26 inches at withers or not over 75
pounds): 40 square feet;
         (c)   For medium animals (12 to 20 inches at withers or not over 50
pounds): 3.32 square feet; and
         (d)   For small animals: 4. 24 square feet; 12 inches or less at
withers or not over 20 pounds.
   (J)   Building requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed with chain-link
fencing for all four sides and top, which are securely attached together. The
sides of the enclosure shall be a minimum height of 72 inches when measured
from the ground. The pen or structure must have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides, or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground
no less than two feet. The pen must be locked with a key lock or combination
lock when any animals are within the structure. The pen or structure shall be
set back at least ten feet from the nearest property line.
   (K)   Violation.
      (1)   An owner commits an offense if the owner fails to comply with this
section.
      (2)   If an owner fails to comply with this section with respect to more
than one animal, the owner’s conduct with respect to each animal constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   No potentially dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered or otherwise
tied to an inanimate object, such as a tree or post of a building outside its
proper enclosure, while unattended by the owner or competent custodian.
   (B)   The owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall consent to periodic
inspections by the enforcement authority or an animal care and control
facility.
   (C)   The owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall have such dog
permanently identified by means of a microchip at the owner’s expense, and the
owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall provide the enforcement authority
with a color photograph of the dog taken within the last 12 months suitable for
use in identifying the dog.
   (D)   Any potentially dangerous dog, which has escaped from its enclosure
may be impounded, whether or not it has been returned to its enclosure at the
time of impoundment.
   (E)   The owner of a potentially dangerous dog must have posted on the
premises clearly visible warning signs reading, “Beware of Dog” in letters not
less than two inches tall. The signs will be posted at each entry point to
inform people of the presence of a potentially dangerous dog.
   (F)   A potentially dangerous dog must not be outside a proper enclosure
unless the dog is muzzled and securely restrained by a leash of not more than
six feet in length and under the control of the owner or competent custodian
age 18 or older. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury
to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but will prevent it from
biting any human or animal. The owner may exercise the dog outside of its
primary enclosure without a muzzle or leash if the dog remains on the owner’s
property with a secured perimeter fence and remains within the owner’s sight
and control at all times. Only members of the owner’s immediate household or
persons age 18 or older are allowed within the perimeter fence while the dog is
present.
   (G)   When being transported, any potentially dangerous dog must be safely
and securely restrained within the vehicle.
   (H)   A potentially dangerous dog must be spayed or neutered within thirty
days of determination that the dog is potentially dangerous.
   (I)   Any potentially dangerous dog found at large or not confined as
required by this section may be captured and impounded. The dog shall be
returned to its owner only if the enforcement authority, in its discretion,
determines that such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of
this section. If such determination cannot be made or if the dog’s actions have
caused severe injury, the enforcement authority shall apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the dog.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Prohibition. Except as provided in the following divisions (B) and (D)
below, no person shall own or keep any dangerous animal in the town.
   (B)   Exceptions. Any person who meets any of the following exceptions shall
be permitted to own or keep a dangerous animal, provided that the person has
first properly obtained a permit for the animal:
      (1)   The keeping of the animal in a zoo, bona fide education or medical
institute, museum or any other place they are kept as live specimens for the
public to view or for the purpose of instruction or study;
      (2)   The keeping of the animal for exhibition to the public by a circus,
carnival or other exhibit or show;
      (3)   The keeping of the animal in a bona fide licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment;
      (4)   Commercial establishments possessing the animal for the purpose of
sale or display; and
      (5)   The owning or keeping of a registered pit bull dog, wolf hybrid or
coydog.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall permit a registered dangerous animal to go outside
its enclosure unless the animal is securely leashed with a leash no longer than
four feet in length. No person shall permit the animal to be kept on a chain,
rope or other type of leash outside its enclosure unless an adult person is in
physical control of the leash. The animal may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts or buildings.
      (2)   No person shall permit a registered dangerous animal to go outside
its enclosure unless the animal is securely muzzled by a muzzling device
sufficient to prevent the animal from biting persons or other animals.
      (3)   All registered dangerous animals shall be securely confined indoors
or, if outdoors, in a securely enclosed and locked pen, except when leashed and
muzzled as described above. The pen shall meet the requirements listed under
the §
91.09.
      (4)   No dangerous animal may be kept on a porch, patio or any part of a
house or structure, or in any manner that would allow the animal to exit the
building on its own volition. In addition, no animal may be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only barriers preventing the animal from exiting the structure.
      (5)   All owners or keepers of registered dangerous animals shall within
30 days of the effective date of this chapter display, in a prominent place on
their premises, clearly visible warning signs reading “Beware of Dog” in
letters not less than two inches tall. The signs will be posted at each entry
point to inform people of the presence of a potentially dangerous dog. In
addition, a similar sign shall be posted on the enclosure or pen of the animal.
      (6)   All registered dangerous animals shall be required to wear a bright
orange collar at all times when not confined indoors. The collar shall be
visibly on the animal when it is in an enclosure or on a leash.
      (7)   All registered dangerous animals shall have an identification
microchip implanted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (8)   All owners or keepers of registered dangerous animals must, within
ten days of any of the following incidents, notify, in writing, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as required hereinafter:
         (a)   The removal from the town or death of a registered dangerous
animal;
         (b)   The birth of offspring to a registered dangerous animal; or
         (c)   The move of the owner or keeper, or the move of a registered
dangerous animal to a new location within the town limits. In that case, the
new address of the animal and that of the owner shall also be reported to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (9)   All offspring born of registered dangerous animals must be removed
from the town within eight weeks of birth.
   (D)   Exemptions. The prohibitions of (A) through (C) above shall not apply
to:
      (1)   The transportation of dangerous animals through the town when the
person transporting the animal has taken adequate safeguards to protect the
public and has notified the Town Marshal of the proposed route of
transportation and the time thereof;
      (2)   The keeping of any dangerous animal by the town or its designees in
the enforcement of this chapter; or
      (3)   The keeping and utilization of police certified dogs for drug
interdiction, search and rescue and law enforcement.
   (E)   Special permit required. A special annual permit shall be required for
owning or keeping any dangerous animal eligible for an exception. Permits shall
be issued only to adults age 21 or older and only to the person who is the
owner or keeper of the animal. Permits will be granted according to the
following procedures:
      (1)   An initial application for a dangerous animal permit shall be made
to the Town Clerk- Treasurer no later than 30 following the effective date of
this chapter. A permit will be valid for 12 months from the issue date. A
permit application shall be made for each 12-month period thereafter and must
be made prior to the expiration of the previous permit. Application must be
made on a form provided by the town. No permit shall be granted to any owner or
keeper of a dangerous animal who has not properly obtained a permit within 30
days following the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   The application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   A statement that the applicant is the owner or keeper of the
animal;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of any other owner or
keeper of the animal;
         (d)   The address of the location where the animal will be kept;
         (e)   A description for the animal for which the permit is sought;
         (f)   An acknowledgment of receipt of a copy of this chapter; and
         (g)   A signature by each owner or keeper of the animal.
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Proof of liability insurance in a single incident amount of
$100,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons, or for damage
to property owned by any persons, which may result from owning or keeping a
dangerous animal. At the time of any subsequent application, the owner or
keeper must show proof of insurance for the present period, as well as proof
that there was insurance coverage throughout the period of the previous year.
In the event that the liability insurance is cancelled, lapsed or for any other
reason becomes non-enforceable, the owner or keeper shall be in violation of
this section;
         (b)   Two identical color photographs of the animal taken within the
previous 30 days, clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal;
         (c)   Proof of microchipping; and
         (d)   A photo identification for each owner or keeper of the animal.
      (4)   The annual permit fee shall be $50 for each dangerous animal.
Permit fees are non-refundable.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   An animal shall be declared vicious only after the enforcement
authority has received an affidavit of complaint by an individual under oath,
stating all pertinent facts to support the allegation that the animal is
vicious.
      (2)   If the complaint is determined valid, the enforcement authority
shall file a complaint in municipal court. The judge, after hearing the
evidence, shall make the final determination as to whether the animal qualifies
as a vicious animal.
   (B)   Any owner of an animal which qualifies under this section as a vicious
dog/animal must adhere to the requirements listed under §
91.09.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties
described in all other parts of this chapter. In addition, the judge can, in
his or her discretion, order the animal impounded at the owner’s expense until
the owner complies with the terms of this section, or can order the destruction
of the animal when necessary to preserve the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 TRAPS AS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
for any person to use, place, set or cause to be set within the town any traps
except cage-type live traps approved by the enforcement authority and used for
the control of unrestrained or potentially dangerous animals. This prohibition
shall not apply to any trap specifically designed to kill rats, mice, gophers
or moles, so long as the owner of the property is aware of the location where
the traps are set, and monitors said traps at least once every 24 hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to use, place, set or cause to be
used, placed or set any leg-hold trap or similar device upon any land or waters
in the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use poisons, poisoned or stupefying substances
in a trap.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remove an animal in the town from
any trap not on the person’s property unless such person has the permission of
the property owner to do so.
   (E)   Traps discovered to have been unlawfully set in the town may be seized
by the enforcement authority and used as prima facie evidence that a violation
has been committed. Upon conviction, said traps shall be forfeited to and
disposed of by the enforcement authority.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Any person who shall become apprised of the death of any animal owner by
that person shall, within 12 hours thereafter, cause the same to be removed
from the premises and taken for disposal.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 UNLAWFUL USE OF DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to make use of a dog in the commission or
furtherance of any criminal act in the town.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 LOST OR STRAY DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owners of animals must notify the Police Department of missing animals
within 48 hours of the animal becoming lost/stolen.
   (B)   Owners of missing animals must make a reasonable effort to locate the
animal.
   (C)   (1)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the Police
Department or a local animal control facility within 48 hours.
      (2)   At the discretion of the enforcement authority, the animal may be
kept by the finder and a found report completed to enable the finder to return
the animal to its owner.
   (D)   Upon demand by an animal control facility, any found animal will be
taken to an animal control facility, veterinary office or Humane Society and
scanned for an identifying microchip.
   (E)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all the rules
and regulations of this chapter pertaining to the care and treatment of animals
while the animal is in their custody.
   (F)   The finder may be considered the found animal’s owner only after the
animal is in the finder’s custody for 30 continuous days.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 HABITUAL OFFENDER.
   A person shall be declared a habitual offender only after a complaint has
been filed in court. The judge shall make the determination as to whether the
person qualifies as a habitual offender.
   (A)   A person shall be declared a habitual offender if:
      (1)   Offender has been found guilty of three or more of the same
provisions in the last five years;
      (2)   Offender has been found guilty of five or more of any combination
of the provisions in the last three years;
      (3)   Offender has been found guilty of a provision of this chapter which
designates the offender as a habitual offender; or
      (4)   Offender has been found guilty of any section of I.C. 35-46-3-
7 through 35-46-3-13.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of being a habitual offender shall not own,
have possession of, or harbor any animals for a minimum of one year and not
more than five years, as determined by the court. Any animals owned or in the
possession of the habitual offender at the time of judgment shall be
surrendered to an animal control facility and become the property of the animal
control facility.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an ordinance violation, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 for the first offense, $75 for the second offense and $125 for the
third offense, unless any provision of this chapter declares otherwise. The
maximum fine for any offense shall be $2,500. Each day any violation continues
or occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)    (1)   Any person who is found to have violated §
91.04(A) shall pay a fine of not less than $35 for the first offense, $75 for
the second offense and $125 for the third offense.
      (2)   If an unvaccinated animal causes bodily injury to another person or
animal, as in §
91.04(B), the fine will be not less than $125.
      (3)   Any person who is found to have violated §
91.04(C) is guilty of a Class C infraction. However, the offense is a Class B
misdemeanor if the dog causes bodily injury by biting a person.
   (C)   An animal’s owner or keeper who resists the quarantining authority or
who permits an animal owned or kept by that person to be at large, as in §
91.05, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   A person found guilty of §
91.06 shall be fined not less than:
      (1)   For a first offense: $100;
      (2)   For second offense: $200; and
      (3)   For third offense: $300.
   (E)   An offense under §
91.09 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
   (F)   A violation of §
91.10 is punishable by a fine of not less than $350. Additionally, upon the
third violation of §
91.10, the dog shall be seized and impounded. The court may, upon request by
the enforcement authority and after a hearing, order the animal forfeited and/
or destroyed.
   (G)   A violation of §
91.15 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200. Upon a finding of a
violation, the court, upon request, shall order the dog forfeited and/or
destroyed.
   (H)   Owners of missing animals who fail to make an effort to locate their
animals as in §
91.16 shall be fined no less than $25 for the first offense and no less than
$50 for the second offense. A third offense will result in the impoundment of
the animal.
   (I)   Any person who, after being found to be a habitual offender concerning
the provisions of §
91.17, continues to own, harbor or have possession of an animal in violation of
an order pursuant to division (B) above shall be fined $2,500 and subject to a
court hearing for being in contempt of court.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisance defined
Noise Standards
   
92.10   Definitions
   
92.11   Scientific definitions
   
92.12   General prohibitions
   
92.13   Quantitative limits
   
92.14   Exemptions and permits
Trash and Public Nuisances
   
92.30   Purpose and intent
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Application of provisions
   
92.33   Prohibited activity
   
92.34   Determination of violation; notice of violation
   
92.35   Property owner right to object to complaint
Weeds
   
92.50   Short title
   
92.51   Jurisdiction
   
92.52   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.53   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.54   Filing complaint
   
92.55   Notice of violations
   
92.56   Appeals
   
92.57   Abatement by town
   
92.58   Liability
   
92.59   Conflicts of law (State of Indiana and APC)
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE shall be defined
as set forth in I.C. 34-30-6-6, as amended.
   (B)   If any person maintains, uses, creates, causes, places, deposits,
leaves or permits a nuisance to be or remain on any property, that person
violates this section. The following list includes, but does not limit, the
conditions constituting a nuisance under this section:
      (1)   Accumulations of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals and lumber;
      (2)   Harborage of undomesticated rats, mice, snakes and other vermin;
      (3)   Disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of those odors and stenches;
      (4)   Carcasses of animals or fowls, not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
      (5)   Buildings, structures or other places and locations where any
violation of federal, state or town law is conducted, maintained or performed;
and
      (6)   Accumulations of stagnant water.
   (C)   If a nuisance exists within the town or its territorial jurisdiction,
the Town Legal Department and/or Town Marshal shall send a written notice by
U.S. mail, first class, postage prepaid or by any other method designated by
the Town Legal Department and/or Town Marshal to the owner or occupant of the
property upon which that nuisance exists or to the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance. The written notice shall be sent at least ten days
before an action is commenced against the person to whom the notice was sent,
unless the Town Legal Department and/or Town Marshal determines that an
emergency requires that an action proceed without this notice.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined
as determined in §
92.34. Each day a violation continues after an action has been commenced to
abate that nuisance shall constitute a separate ordinance violation. No
additional notice under this section shall be required to initiate these
separate actions once an action has been commenced against the person violating
this section. Examples of such violation letters are marked Exhibit A.
   (E)   In addition to acting under division (C) of this section, the Town
Legal Department and/or Town Marshal may file suit in the name of the town
against any person violating any provision of this section to obtain injunctive
relief to abate that nuisance.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall be deemed supplemental to all
other town code sections and town ordinances.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Recovery of Costs, see I.C. 34-52-1-1
NOISE STANDARDS
§ 92.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
terminology used in this section shall conform with applicable publications of
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The loudness of a sound measured through a filtering
device intended to simulate human hearing. The level is designated DB(A) or
OBA.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The composite of noise from all sources near and far.
In this context, the ambient noise level constitutes the normal or existing
level of environmental noise at a given location when sound is not being
electronically amplified at a location.
   COMMERCIAL ZONE. All town business and commercial zones.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit for measuring the sound pressure level of a sound.
   FREQUENCY. An objective way to describe the pitch of a sound.
   HERTZ (HZ). A unit for measuring the frequency of a sound, sometimes called
cycles per second.
   INDUSTRIAL ZONE. All town industrial zones.
   LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight less
than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-
karts, mini-bikes, trail bikes and light trucks.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered or replaced to produce more noise.
   NOISE. Any sound which, under the facts and circumstances, disturbs human
beings of normal, reasonable, or average sensibility or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on such human beings.
   OCTAVE BAND. A way to divide the entire frequency range of sound into
sections for more accurate measurements.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised, agitated or normal or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES. All town residential zones.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed to measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. An objective way to describe the loudness of a sound.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.11 SCIENTIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   The concise, scientific definitions of the terms used in this subchapter
shall be as follows.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level of a sound measured through
an a weighting filter network. The level read is designated DB(A) or OBA.
   DECIBEL (DB). The unit is used for comparing the sound pressure level of a
sound to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure
of 20 micropascals.
   FREQUENCY. The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations or waves per unit
time, usually one second.
   HERTZ (HZ). The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The number
of hertz is the number of cycles per second of a periodic sound pressure wave.
   OCTAVE BAND. A portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum contained
between two frequencies A and B such that A= 2B.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm (Base 10) of the ratio of
the measured sound pressure to a reference pressure of 20 micropascals. The
sound pressure level is expressed in decibels (DB).
      (1)   Sound Pressure A: SPL = 20 LOG 10.
      (2)   Sound Pressure B:
         (a)   Sound Pressure A = measured sound pressure.
         (b)   Sound Pressure B = reference sound pressure (20 micropascals).
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.12 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property's value.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of introduction of substance, odor or sound in air, see I.C. 36-
8-2-8
§ 92.13 QUANTITATIVE LIMITS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall cause the sound pressure level of the noise emitted
during the operation of a light motor vehicle to exceed 80 dB/A in speed zones
of 45 miles per hour or less within the town. The sound pressure level
measurement shall be made at a distance of not less than 15 feet from the edge
of the lane of travel of the violator.
      (2)   No person shall operate a light motor vehicle which causes
excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified exhaust system or as a
result of an unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, engine revving or
tire squealing.
   (B)   Stationary source.
      (1)   No person or landowner shall permit any noise to be generated or
produced on his or her property which exceeds 75 dB/A for more than two minutes
per hour, measured from the boundary line of the property from which the sound
is generated; unless specific approval is obtained.
      (2)   No person within a residential or a commercial zone shall make or
cause to be made any earth shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of
instruments beyond the property boundary of the vibration source. No person
within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be made any earthshaking
vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the zone boundary
of the zone in which the vibration source is located.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or landowner to generate or
permit the generation of sound from his or her property through electronic
amplification at a level above 25 dB/A above the ambient noise level for more
than two minutes per hour at the property line of the landowner, where the
sound is generated between the following hours:
         (a)   Daily from Sunday evening through Friday morning: 11:00 p.m. to
7:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   Daily from Friday evening through Sunday morning: 11:30 p.m. to
8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.14 EXEMPTIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the emission of
sound for the purpose of altering persons to the existence of an emergency or
in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical or property damage
threatened or caused by a public calamity or other emergency.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority to issue permits for the
following purposes providing that the application is received by Town Hall at
least two weeks prior to the event:
      (1)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special events,
public or personal;
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community or other persons and that the adverse impact on the health, safety
and welfare of persons affected by the permit have been outweighed by that
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions, including a time limit that is
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
   (C)   Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall revoke it and
subject the person holding it to the penalty provisions of this subchapter. The
Town Police Department may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to issue a permit.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
TRASH AND PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to protect the
public safety, health, welfare, and enhance the environment of the people of
the town by making it unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or
permit an environmental public nuisance to exist.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
"shall" will be mandatory and not merely directory.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle, machinery, equipment, watercraft or trailer
that has remained on private or public property without the consent of the
owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours and is
mechanically inoperable. Also, any vehicle, machinery, equipment, watercraft or
trailer that is mechanically inoperable and continuously in a location visible
from public property or public right-of-way, or visible from the immediate
vicinity of private residences or businesses for more than 20 days.
   ABATE. To end or eliminate nuisance solid waste accumulation, illegal
dumping, littering or any other violation of this chapter by removal, clean up
and proper disposal.
   AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEE. An individual designated to make environmental public
nuisance inspections or any individual(s) of any governmental department of the
town, in which department has been designated by the Town Council to enforce
this subchapter.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any of the following constitute an
environmental public nuisance.
      (1)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation on private or
governmental property which is neglected, disregarded or not cut, mowed, or
otherwise removed and/or which has attained a height of nine inches or more;
      (2)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, brush, trees or woody growth
on private or governmental property;
      (3)   Any poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plant or plants
detrimental to health growing on any private or governmental property; or
      (4)   Any vegetation, trees or wood growth on private property which due
to its proximity to any governmental property, right-of- way or easement
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the government property,
right-of- way or easement or which has been allowed to become a health or
safety hazard.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY. Any of the following may constitute excluded property;
      (1)   Land cultivated in a commercial, domestic, agricultural or
horticultural zone;
      (2)   An existing natural or developed forest which does not create a
health or safety hazard;
      (3)   Vacant open lands, fields or wooded areas more than 150 feet from
occupied property;
      (4)   A nature habitat area more than 150 feet from an occupied structure
on adjacent property and determined not to be a health or safety hazard;
      (5)   A wetland area designated by the United States Department of
Interior Fish and Wildlife Division on a National Wetlands Inventory Maps; or
      (6)   A clearly defined, designated micro-prairie contained within an
otherwise carefully cultivated property.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate within the town which is owned, leased,
controlled or occupied by the United States, the State of Indiana, or any
political subdivision thereof; excluding areas such as interior fields, river
bank properties and wooded lots which are maintained as natural sites by and
such political entity.
   OFFICER. Person authorized by the Town Council to or any other governmental
department of the town, so designated by the Town Council having law
enforcement powers to issue town ordinance violation summons in order to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   OWNER. Shall be presumed to be any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the township assessor's office of the township in which the real estate is
located; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the town except governmental
property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as essentially
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. The following
is a list of public nuisances, but does not limit, the condition constituting a
nuisance under this subchapter:
      (1)   Accumulations of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, tires, and lumber;
      (2)   Any condition which provides harborage of rats, mice, snakes,
insects, and other vermin;
      (3)   Disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of those odors and stenches;
      (4)   Carcasses of animals or fowls, not disposed of within a reasonable
amount of time after death;
      (5)   Buildings, structures of other places and locations where any
violation of federal, state or town law is conducted, maintained or performed;
      (6)   Accumulations of stagnant water;
      (7)   It shall be a nuisance for any person to leave or permit to remain
outside of any dwelling, building or other structure or within any unoccupied
or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under their control, in a
place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded freezer,
refrigerator or other container;
      (8)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of the people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in
the vicinity where it is located;
      (9)   The unauthorized obstruction of any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or any other public thoroughfare or right-of-way;
      (10)   The unauthorized pollution of any public well, cistern, stream,
lake, canal or body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial waste or other
substances;
      (11)   It shall be a nuisance to permit furniture designed for interior
use or household furnishing to sit or be placed outside any structure, unless
placed for refuse collections.
   TOWN. The Town of Upland.
   TRAFFIC HAZARD. Any environmental public nuisance that is potentially
dangerous to the existing traffic at the intersection in question, as it may
block or prohibit the view of any oncoming traffic.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION. Any plant which grows where it is not wanted.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.32 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the United States, the State of Indiana,
or any political subdivision thereof, shall be required to keep governmental
property free from environmental public nuisances.
   (B)   Any owner of private property shall be required to keep that private
property free from environmental public nuisances.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.33 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner of private property
or governmental property to allow a public nuisance to exist on that property,
unless the property is excluded property.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.34 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Officer shall have the right to enter onto any public or private
property, excluding structures, within the jurisdictional coverage of this
chapter, for the purpose of performing any duties imposed by the provisions of
this chapter. The Officer is hereby authorized to issue warnings, citations,
and abatement notices under this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of any complaint, report or personal sighting of an
alleged violation of this chapter, the Officer shall conduct an investigation.
In the event that the Officer determines that there is not a violation of this
chapter, the investigation will be closed.
   (C)   Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause is found that a violation of
this chapter exists, the Officer shall complete a written notification with an
Action Plan (see Exhibit B of Ord. 3-2024) with the alleged violator. The
Action Plan will be completed in the following manner:
      (1)   The Officer will inspect the property in the presence of the
alleged violator and/or property owner to discuss the specific violation and
how to come into compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   The Officer will photograph the property and enter the action(s)
necessary as agreed upon by the violator and/or property owner to be completed
within 30 days.
      (3)   The Action Plan shall be signed by both the Officer and violating
parties.
      (4)   The Officer shall notify the violator and/or property owner the
penalties for failure to comply with this chapter within 30 days.
   (D)   The Action Plan shall be presented to the Upland Unsafe Building Board
for approval.
   (E)   Citation for violation. If the officer finds that a public nuisance
exists on private property, that officer is directed to issue a citation for
violation of a town ordinance to be issued to the offending property owner. Any
person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed an ordinance violation and upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $100 and not more than $2,500. Three or more separate violations at the
same property within 12 months will be determined to be Public Nuisance- Level
Two. Fines for this violation shall not be less than $250 and not more than
$2,500. Five or more separate violations within 24 months will constitute a
Public Nuisance-Level Three. Fines for this violation shall not be less than
$500 and not more than $2,500. The court may order the town to abate the
violation and shall impose costs as incurred and calculated under this
division. Each day a violation continues after an action has been commenced to
abate the nuisance that nuisance shall constitute a separate ordinance
violation. No additional notice under this section shall be required to
initiate these separate actions once an action has been commenced against the
person violating this section.
   (F)   Abatement by town or private property. In addition to the issuance of
a citation for the violation of a town ordinance under division (E), the
officer may bring a civil action in any court of record and obtain an order
allowing the town to abate the public nuisance and recover costs pursuant to
this subchapter, which shall include: costs of removal of the public nuisance,
administrative fees not to exceed $100 per charge, and all recording fees,
together with any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating the public
nuisance, including costs of collection and attorney fees. In addition, the
officer may seek to enjoin the public nuisance through application to the
proper court.
   (G)   Responsibility of offender for costs of enforcement. The Code
Enforcement Department shall make a statement of the costs incurred in
eliminating the environmental public nuisance. The costs shall include: cost or
removal of the environmental public nuisances, administrative fees, attorney
fees if the court ordered enforcement is necessary and all recording fees
associated with the collection of the outstanding balances. The following fees
shall be charged:
      (1)   Administrative fees. One hundred dollars. These fees would cover
such administrative tasks such as inspecting the property to determine
violation, to determine compliance, determining ownership and preparing and
mailing notices.
      (2)   Attorney fees. This fee shall cover the legal time on an hourly
basis necessary to enforce this subchapter in court for each violation.
      (3)   Labor and fees. The following labor fees per person, per hour or
fraction thereof, shall apply for labor necessary to abate an environmental
public nuisance.
         (a)    Operator/driver/laborer without CDL: Current rate.
         (b)    Operator/driver/laborer with CDL: Current rate.
         (c)   Supervisor: Current rate.
      (4)   Equipment fees. The following equipment fees per machine, per hour
or fraction thereof, shall apply for the use of each piece of equipment
necessary to abate an environmental public nuisance.
         (a)   Pick-up truck: Current rate.
         (b)   Tractor/bush hog: Current rate.
         (c)   Backhoe: Current rate.
         (d)   Dump truck: Current rate.
         (e)   Packer: Current rate.
         (f)   Loader: Current rate.
      (5)   Any fees incurred to dispose of trash and waste products removed
from property.
      (6)   Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating an
environmental public nuisance. Said statement shall be delivered to the
property owner by first-class mail. The owner shall pay the amount noted to the
town within ten days after receipt, which shall be deposited in the
Environmental Public Nuisance Account.
   (H)   Failure to pay. The town shall have the following options should an
owner fail to pay:
      (1)   If the owner fails to pay the amount within ten days after
receiving a statement, a copy of all costs may be filed in the office of the
Auditor of Grant County for the purpose of placing the amount claimed on the
tax duplicate against the property, so that the amount claimed can be collected
as taxes are collected, subject to the limitations above.
      (2)   The town may file the citation in the County Court and seek the
costs.
      (3)   The town may seek the recovery of the costs plus attorney fees in
the county courts.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.35 PROPERTY OWNER RIGHT TO OBJECT TO COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate, the property owner or their duly
authorized representative may notify the Code Enforcement Department of an
intent to object to any notice to abate.
   (B)   This correspondence shall be in writing and shall specify the street
address involved, as well as the current mailing address and phone number of
the property owner or their representative. Any such correspondence must be
received by the Code Enforcement Department within the amount of time set out
in the notice to abate.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall provide copies of the same to the Town Attorney and to the Officer
involved in the violation, who shall cause the objection to be investigated. If
the Officer determines that the violation has not been corrected, he or she
shall file the citation in the appropriate Grant County Court. No other action
concerning the property in question shall be pursued against the owner to abate
the environmental public nuisance until resolution of the objection thereto.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
WEEDS
§ 92.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the "Weed Ordinance."
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.51 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits of the
town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
(Ord 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.52 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the Town Administration, or Town
Council in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES AND RANK VEGETATION.
         (a)   Grass, weeds, volunteer plants, shrubs, bushes and/or other
vegetation growth not planted or cultivated and exceeding six inches in height
on residential and commercial property or undeveloped non- residential property
at a height exceeding 16 inches.
         (b)   Canada thistle, thistles, Johnson grass, sorghum, allium, bur
cucumber, and shattercane.
         (c)   RANK VEGETATION is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants.
         (d)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 8-20-2019; Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.53 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
six inches in average height on residential or commercial property and 16
inches on undeveloped property, and in no event, exceeds 16 inches maximum
height on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.54 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Clerk. If the town makes the complaint, an employee, officer or
Council member of the town shall file the complaint in all respects as set out
above.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.55 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the Town Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the Council regarding the condition.
The Town Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief that this
subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in the form of
a "Destruction Order" to the property owner and/or the person occupying the
property as that information is contained within the records of the Clerk or
any other town agency. Such notice shall be served in writing by certified
mail. The notice shall provide that within seven calendar days after the
receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Clerk or others is deemed filed on the
date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.56 APPEALS.
   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections with
the executive within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and holidays,
if the property owner contests the finding of the Town Administration. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter. An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.57 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
"Destruction Order" within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the Clerk of an intent to appeal, the Town Administration
may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.58 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the town uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Clerk and
to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for expenses and costs
incurred by the town.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.59 CONFLICTS OF LAW (STATE OF INDIANA AND APC).
   To the extent that any conflict exists with this code and the laws of the
State of Indiana, the laws of the State of Indiana shall apply and the
remainder of this code shall be recognized, if possible. To the extent that any
conflict exists with the ordinances of the Grant County Area Planning
Commission (APC), the ordinances of the APC shall apply and the remainder of
the intent of this code shall be preserved.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates the motor vehicle noise limits set forth
in this §§
92.10 through
92.14, following one written warning, shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance
violation, and upon conviction, shall be fined as determined by §
92.34.
      (2)   Any person who violates any other provision of this §§
92.10 through
92.14, following one written warning, shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance
violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined as determined by §
92.34.
      (3)   Each day, following the initial citation, that a violation occurs
or continues constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   During any trial concerning the provisions of this §§
92.10 through
92.14, the court may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a
sound level meter, which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for Type II
Equipment.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.50 through
92.58 for which no other penalty is set forth shall be subject to the penalty
provisions set forth in §
92.55.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 8-20-2019; Ord. 3-2024, passed 3-5-2024)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Park rules and regulations; conduct
   
93.02   Trail rules and regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS; CONDUCT.
   (A)   Upland Community Building rules. Upland Community Building Rules,
which are attached to the ordinance codified herein, are hereby incorporated
and adopted by this section as the rules and regulations for the Upland
Community Building.
   (B)   Park hours. All parks will open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 10:00 p.m.
Any supervised event which continues after 10:00 p.m. shall be entitled to
continue until the conclusion of the event without violation of park hours
established herein. The Town Council may grant authorization for supervised
events to be held at town parks or other properties owned by the town on dates
and hours established by resolution.
   (C)   Alcoholic beverages and illegal substances. No person shall be in
possession or under the influence of any alcoholic beverages or illegal
substances within the town parks.
   (D)   Preservation of property and natural features. No person shall injure,
deface or disturb any real estate, nor any building, sign, equipment, owned by
the town and no other property or minerals may be removed, injured or
destroyed. Vandalizing and intentional destruction or damage to park property
and to any improvements located on park property is a crime which shall be
referred to the County Prosecutor and the town will pursue recovery of the cost
of the repair and replacement from the offender.
   (E)   Hunting and molesting wildlife. No person shall hunt, pursue with
dogs, trap or in any other way molest any wild bird or animal found within the
confines of the parks, or therein rob or molest any bird nest or take the eggs
of any bird.
   (F)   Fires. No person shall start a fire on town property, except for food
prepared in park grills. Privately-owned grills may be used in areas adjacent
to shelter houses only. All fires shall be put out by the person, or persons
starting or using the same before leaving the immediate vicinity of the fire.
The dumping of hot ashes or fire from portable grills onto the grass or plants
is prohibited.
   (G)   Littering. No person shall drop, cast or spill litter on park
property, except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
   (H)   Camps. No person shall establish or maintain any camp or other
temporary lodging place on park property without a permit from the Council.
   (I)   Disorderly conduct. No person shall, either by word or act, indulge in
any noisy, boisterous, disorderly or indecent conduct; or in any manner to
disturb the peace or good order of the community within the parks, nor shall
any person engage in any active game endangering other persons in the parks;
nor shall any person partake in any form or gambling, drink intoxicating
liquor, or be drunk, or do any indecent lascivious, lewd or improper act
therein.
   (J)   Traffic.
      (1)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or
propelled, along or over any road within the parks, any vehicle at a greater
rate of speed than ten mph. Paths established for pedestrians and non-motorized
vehicles shall not be used by motorized vehicles.
      (2)   No person shall park any motor car, motorcycle or other vehicle
within the parks, except in places designated for parking.
   (K)   Commercial enterprises and solicitation. No person shall sell or offer
for sale any article, thing, privilege or service within the parks or make any
solicitation without a permit from the Council.
   (L)   Commercial advertisement. No person shall distribute or place
commercial advertisement within the parks, without a permit from the Council.
   (M)   Dogs and cats. No dog, cat or any animal destructive to wildlife is
permitted in the parks unless such animals are controlled at all times on a
leash not more than eight feet long.
   (N)   Firearms, fireworks, explosive devices and weapons. No person shall
possess or discharge any firearms, fireworks, explosive devices or other
weapons, within the parks without a permit from the Council.
   (O)   Damage to park property. Intentional or negligent destruction,
vandalism or damage to any park, property or to any improvements located within
any park is a crime which shall be referred to the County Prosecutor and the
town will pursue recovery of the cost of the repair or replacement from the
offender.
   (P)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARK. Any land owned or controlled by the Town Council.
      PERSON. Includes persons and corporations.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 11- -2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 TRAIL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall be in full force and effect with respect to
the portion of Upland Trail, beginning at the Trail Head immediately south of
the train tracks on the southeast side of Main Street and extending east, then
south within the limits of the incorporated town, as follows.
   (A)   Parking is only permitted at the Trail Head in designated parking
areas, and no parking is allowed along streets, highways and roadways.
   (B)   Trail hours are from daily sunrise to sunset seven days a week and the
use of the trail outside of these hours is prohibited.
   (C)   Users of the trail do so at their own risk.
   (D)   No person on the trail shall be in possession of or under the
influence of alcoholic beverages or illegal substances.
   (E)   Users of the trail will remain on the trail and shall not wander onto
adjacent private property (which is only ten feet off the trail).
   (F)   Those using the trail must stop at all crossroads and must obey all
signage.
   (G)   The only animals allowed on the trail are pets that are kept on a
leash. Pets must be kept off of private property, owners must clean up after
their pets, must not throw animal waste or other trash onto adjoining
landowner’s property and the user must remove all trash and waste from the
trail and the property of adjoining landowners.
   (H)   All motorized vehicles, except where noted elsewhere in this section,
are expressly prohibited on the trail. These include, but are not limited to,
cars, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, scooters and go-karts or
other similar motorized vehicles are prohibited on the trail.
   (I)   E-bikes and peddle assisted bikes are allowed on the trail as long as
they do not exceed a speed of 15 mph.
   (J)   Electric personal assistive mobility devises which are single
passenger, self-balancing mode of transport with a maximum speed of 15 mph are
permitted on the trail.
   (K)   No campfires or overnight camping are allowed on the trail or in
parking areas.
   (L)   Due to the hazard for creating fires, smoking is prohibited on the
trail.
   (M)   No firearms, explosive or destructive devices or fireworks are
permitted on the trail and hunting is prohibited.
   (N)   Vandalizing and intentional destruction or damage to the trail and to
any improvements located along the trail is a crime which shall be referred to
the County Prosecutor and the town will pursue recovery of the cost of the
repair and replacement from the offender.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions and regulations of §
93.01 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine in a sum of not less than $50
and not exceeding $100.
   (C)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
93.02 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in the sum of $50 for the
first violation and $100 for each additional violation. Each day any violation
of §
93.02 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 2019-5, passed 11- -2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Liquor retailer’s permits
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS.
   The Council hereby authorizes the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits for
premises in the town pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-9-3 and 905 I.A.C. 1-1-1 et seq.,
as amended.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   License application
   
111.05   License fee
   
111.06   Persons accompanying
   
111.07   Identification and carrying permits
   
111.08   Prohibited entrance; days of operation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, on foot or by vehicle, sells or offers for sale
goods, wares, merchandise or services directly to a consumer for immediate
delivery or performance, either by going from house to house for the purpose of
selling such goods or services or by selling such goods or services in any
public place.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from house to
house or upon the public street donations or an order for goods, subscriptions,
merchandise or services to be delivered or performed at a future date.
Permanent residents of the town, local students, local fraternal organizations,
local church groups, local charitable organizations and local governmental
units are exempt from this chapter.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. As defined by I.C. 25-37-1-2 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The town hereby taxes, licenses and relegates peddlers, solicitors and
transient merchants and charges a fee for the transaction of business by
peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants within the town limits and
provides for the punishment of persons violating this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012)
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every peddler, solicitor and transient merchant shall obtain a permit from
the Clerk-Treasurer before engaging in business by paying a permit fee in the
amount of $25 per week. (A “week” shall consist of seven consecutive calendar
days, commencing on the day of issuance of the permit.)
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for any permit required by this chapter shall be made in
writing on forms furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall furnish
a valid photo identification and Social Security card. No person shall make a
known misrepresentation or false statement on an application.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and shall
include:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and address, Social Security number, the
address of his or her local business establishment and the exact nature of his
or her business;
      (2)   The name or title of the proposed business, professional or
occupation;
      (3)   If the applicant is not the owner of the place in which the
business is to be conducted, the name and address of the owner;
      (4)   If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other
association, the names and addresses of all partners or principal officers;
      (5)   If the applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name and
address of the principal employer; and
      (6)   The attachment of a receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer showing the
payment of the permit fee.
   (C)   The application must be made in writing at least two days before such
applicant shall be authorized to begin such business.
   (D)   Such application shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of
$500 executed by the applicant with a surety bond, on condition that all
conditions, wares, merchandise or articles sold by such applicant will be
represented by him or her, and that he or she will refund the purchase price of
any merchandise sold. Any person aggrieved by the action on the bond for the
recovery of money, or damages, or both. In the event a cash bond is deposited
with the Clerk-Treasurer, the same shall be retained for 90 days after the
application for any such permit.
   (E)   Upon the filing of such application and bond, and the approval of said
bond by the Clerk- Treasurer, such applicant to begin business not less than
two days after the date of filing such application and payment of the permit
fee.
   (F)   Each applicant shall authorize the Town Marshal or the town’s Police
Department to conduct a criminal background check on each applicant. Any
applicant who has been convicted of a crime involving theft, larceny, rape,
child molestation, intimidation, battery or other crimes against persons or
property shall be denied a license.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The licensing fee shall defray the costs of the town in administering its
regulator power and be paid in full prior to the issuance of the permit and the
fee shall be deposited into the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012)
§ 111.06 PERSONS ACCOMPANYING.
   No person shall accompany a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant during
the transaction of business unless that person has obtained a permit under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 IDENTIFICATION AND CARRYING PERMITS.
   (A)   All peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants shall display on
their persons photo- identification, which clearly states their name and
organization, if any, with which they are affiliated in the transaction of
business.
   (B)   All peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants shall carry with the
permit issued by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012)
§ 111.08 PROHIBITED ENTRANCE; DAYS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants shall enter upon
property in the town on which a sign or notice stating “No Solicitors”, or
words to that effect, is posted and plainly visible.
   (B)   Peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants are prohibited from
soliciting on Sundays and holidays. HOLIDAYS are defined as New Year’s Day,
Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President’s Day, Valentines Day, Good Friday,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Columbus Day, Halloween, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve Day and Christmas Day. The hours of soliciting
shall be limited to 10:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m., local time.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined a sum not to exceed
$100. Each day a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall engage in the
transaction of business without a permit or in violation of §§
111.06,
111.07 and
111.08 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-10-2012)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.02   Parental responsibility
   
130.03   Enforcement
   
130.04   Defenses
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for a child under 15 years of age to
be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway,
or alley or other public place within the town after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00
a.m. on any day (“prohibited conduct”).
   (B)   It is a violation of this chapter for a child 15 years of age and
under 18 years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building,
place, street, highway or other public place within the town:
      (1)   Between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
or
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and
before 5:00 a.m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday (“prohibited
conduct”).
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-22-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is a violation of this chapter for a parent, guardian or custodian to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody to violate §
130.01 of this chapter (except where one of more of the exceptions (defenses)
listed in §
130.04 of this chapter applies).
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-22-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this chapter unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and upon consideration of the
facts and surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
   (A)   The juvenile has violated §
130.01 of this chapter; and
   (B)   There is no legal defense to the violation as provided in §
130.04 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-22-2008)
§ 130.04 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to a violation of this chapter if, at the time the juvenile
has engaged in prohibited conduct:
   (A)   The child is emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-11-1-7 or 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state of jurisdiction.
   (B)   The child is engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participation, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   School sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from eminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving exercise of a child’s rights protected
under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution or Art. 1, § 31, of
the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech and the right
of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non- profit or governmental entity
that provides education, training or other care under the supervision of one or
more adults.
      (4)   Participating in an activity of undertaking with the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-22-2008)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who commits a violation of this chapter is subject to
enforcement provisions provided in I.C. 36-1-6 and 34-28-5. A complaint against
a person alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed in the Gas City
Court; and, in the case of a complaint against a juvenile, a copy of the
complaint shall be directed to the juvenile’s parents, guardian or custodian;
provided, such party, guardian or custodian is known or can be identified by
reasonable inquiry.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $10, nor more than $50, for a first offense; not less than $50, nor more
than $75, for a second offense; and not less than $75, nor more than $100, for
a third and subsequent offense; and, the court may, in addition to such fine,
order such injunctive relief as appropriate and as within the court’s
jurisdiction to discourage further violation of this chapter.
   (C)   A parent, guardian or custodian of such juvenile found in violation of
this chapter who is found to have knowingly permitted the juvenile to he in
violation hereof shall be subject to a fine of not more than $25 for the first
offense. If any such child over whom a parent, guardian or custodian of such
juvenile is held to be in violation of this chapter within a 12-month period,
then such parent, guardian or custodian shall be fined not more than $50; and,
if a juvenile is found to be in violation of this chapter a third or subsequent
time during a 12-month period, then the parent, guardian or custodian shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $200, for the third or each such
subsequent violation.
   (D)   In addition to the above penalties, court costs in an amount as now
exists or may hereafter be determined by ordinance of statute.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-22-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
152.   PLANNING
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Severability
   
150.07   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
150.08   Building permits; application; certificate of occupancy
   
150.09   Investigations and inspections of construction activities
   
150.10   Stop-work order
   
150.11   Right of appeal
   
150.12   Minimum construction standards
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.25   Title
   
150.26   Adoption by reference
   
150.27   Definitions
   
150.28   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.29   Amendments to state code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the “Building Code of Upland, Indiana”.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the town and shall be construed in such
a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Includes individuals employed or through interlocal
agreement with the town that are authorized to represent the designated
Building Official and the town.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4 has the following definition.
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; and
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a) above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition.
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402, as it existed on 1-1-2003. This definition is as follows:
“‘Manufactured home’ means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or forty body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein; except that, such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph, except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
and except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle”.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition.
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year- round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word or any other
portion) of this subchapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if
and only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions be given the effect intended in adopting this subchapter.
   (B)   To this end, the provisions of this subchapter are severable.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this subchapter of any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   These rights, liabilities and other proceedings are continued and
penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance
as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.08 BUILDING PERMITS; APPLICATION; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Building permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in
conformity with a valid building permit obtained from the Building Official
prior to commencement of construction.
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Official.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Building Official, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Official determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the state’s Building Official and the state’s Fire
Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Official finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws; and
         (f)   The fee established by the adopted fee schedule.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Official may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. The Building Official shall issue a
building permit to a person after the person has submitted a complete
application, including any applicable fee; provided that, the proposed
construction will conform to all applicable building laws and will not violate
any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for any building
or structure shall be issued unless such building or structure was constructed
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to
occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Official.
   (E)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building
permit or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees, including checks returned
for insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to this subchapter, or
inspection fees owed pursuant to this subchapter, to the Building Official, the
Building Official may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits
until such time that the debt is satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Official is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested permits
until such time that the property is brought into conformance with applicable
ordinances.
   (F)   Permit revocation. The Building Official may revoke a building permit
when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepre- sentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
      (3)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter; or
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections and investigations.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Official, irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Official may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Building Official and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws. (The Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17.)
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.10 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Official may issue an order requiring suspension of the
pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Official may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
and
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.11 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Official. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures.
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the town
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this subchapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance to hear
appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person aggrieved by an order
may petition for review with this administrative body in accordance with said
ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 150.12 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of rules by reference.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
         (a)   Article 13, Building Codes:
            1.   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
            2.   Indiana Building Code.
         (b)   Article 14, Indiana Residential Code;
         (c)   Article 16, Indiana Plumbing Code;
         (d)   Article 17, Indiana Electrical Code;
         (e)   Article 18, Indiana Mechanical Code;
         (f)   Article 19, Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
         (g)   Article 20, Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
         (h)   Article 22, Indiana Fire Code;
         (i)   Article 24, Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
         (j)   Article 25, Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
      (2)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference
are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (3)   The Building Official and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted
by the Building Official is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Lifting devices located within a private residence.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as
elevators and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not
regulated lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to
lifting devices located within a private residence are incorporated by
reference:
         (a)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (b)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (c)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
         (d)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
         (e)   Section-7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (2)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative
body for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.25 TITLE.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-3, this subchapter is established and shall
be known as the “Upland Unsafe Building Law”.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 150.26 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 (collectively, the “state code”) hereby are
incorporated herein by reference as the “Upland Unsafe Building Law”. All
proceedings within the town for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe
buildings shall be governed by the state code and by the provisions of this
subchapter. Unless otherwise expressly set forth herein, in the event the
provisions of this subchapter conflict with the state code, then the provisions
of the state code shall control.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 150.27 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All definitions in the state code, as now existing or as hereafter
amended, are incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything to the contrary contained in the
state code, the following terms which are defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2, shall be
deemed for purposes of this subchapter and the town’s Unsafe Building Law to be
defined as follows.
      DEPARTMENT. The Clerk-Treasurer of Upland, Indiana.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Town Marshal of Upland, Indiana.
      HEARING AUTHORITY. A five-person panel which shall consist of the members
of the Town Council.
   (B)   In accordance with the terms of I.C. 36-7-9-3, the Department
described above hereby shall be deemed to be the executive department of the
town authorized to and responsible for the administration of this subchapter
and the state code. In addition to the foregoing, the definition of
“substantial property interest” set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby expressly
and explicitly incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full, as
required by the terms of I.C. 36-7-9-3.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 150.28 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   An “Unsafe Building Fund” is hereby established in the operating
budget of the town in accordance with the provisions and requirements of I.C.
36-7-9-14.
   (B)   Said Unsafe Building Fund shall be administered in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14 and all applicable law.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 150.29 AMENDMENTS TO STATE CODE.
   It is the specific intent of this subchapter to incorporate all future
amendments or changes to the state code, as amended or supplemented from time
to time, and as enacted and defined in said state code provisions, as
amendments to the town’s Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Civil action. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a
civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from
violating a provision of §§
150.01 through
150.12 of this chapter.
      (2)   Monetary penalty. Any person violating any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.12 of this chapter may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding
$2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in §§
150.01 through
150.12 of this chapter.
   (C)   Violations of §§
150.25 through
150.29 of this chapter shall be addressed as established in the state code, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-19-2007; Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-9-2011)
CHAPTER 151: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Installation instructions
   
151.02   Town requirements
   
151.03   Obstructions; improvements
   
151.04   Authorization; determination and action by town
   
151.05   Property disturbances; owner responsibility
   
151.06   Provision of services by town
   
151.07   Monthly fee
§ 151.01 INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS.
   With respect to the construction of a new residence or other building, when
a municipality construction authorization is filed with the Area Plan Office by
an owner of real estate for the construction of a new residence or other new
building, the owner shall contact the town’s Storm Water Superintendent/
Utilities Manager to obtain instructions with respect to the installation of
storm water drainage facilities including a proper grassed swale along existing
city streets and thoroughfares and the installation of driveway culvert tubes
under all driveways constructed in or along the town right-of-way adjacent to
any street and thoroughfare.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.02 TOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any new residential construction shall install storm water
facilities in accordance with the requirements of the town’s Storm Water
Superintendent/Utilities Manager and certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued to the owner of the real estate until the storm water facilities have
been proper constructed.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.03 OBSTRUCTIONS; IMPROVEMENTS.
   No improvements such as trees, gardens or other obstructions shall be placed
in the grass swale located in the right-of-way for all streets and
thoroughfares of the town and any such obstructions are subject to removal by
the town without notice.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.04 AUTHORIZATION; DETERMINATION AND ACTION BY TOWN.
   In the event there is an accumulation of storm water on private property or
property owned by the town, the town’s Storm Water Superintendent/Utilities
Manager shall be authorized to determine the cause for the accumulation of the
water and shall instruct the property owner with respect to the actions
required to be taken in order to alleviate the accumulation of the storm water.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.05 PROPERTY DISTURBANCES; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any installation, repair or replacement of storm water facilities at an
existing residence is required to correct the flow of storm water, the
homeowner shall allow a driveway culvert tube to be installed in a size to be
determined by the town’s Storm Water Superintendent/Utilities Manager and the
town shall provide the labor, culvert tube and stone to install the necessary
culvert tube. However, in the event any concrete, asphalt or other hard surface
driveway is disturbed by the installation, repair or replacement of the
driveway culvert tube, the homeowner shall bare the cost of repair to the
homeowner’s driveway surface.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.06 PROVISION OF SERVICES BY TOWN.
   The town shall provide services necessary to clean out all existing driveway
culvert tubes as needed and in the event a driveway culvert tube size is
insufficient or has become damaged in anyway, the process set forth in §
151.05 of this chapter shall be followed by the homeowner and the town.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.07 MONTHLY FEE.
   The town’s Department of Storm Water Management is authorized to assess a
flat fee of $5 per meter per month within the special taxing district as
defined by I.C. 8-1.5-5-5(a)(2).
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 2-2-2017)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   County Area Plan Commission
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Major streets and highways plan
   
152.04   Public facilities plan
   
152.05   Improvement location permits
   
152.06   Amendment, validity, repeal and adoption
Subdivision Control
   
152.20   Establishment of control
   
152.21   Procedures
   
152.22   Principles and standards of design
   
152.23   Standards of improvements
   
152.24   Variance
   
152.25   Plat certificates and deed of dedication
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes the Area Plan Commission of the county and
the county’s Area Planning Department.
   (B)   (1)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission shall be as set forth
in I.C. 36-7-4-207(c); except that, I.C. 36-7-4-207(c)(8) shall not prevail.
      (2)   Instead, each such town shall have one voting representative.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 1-1970, passed 5-18-1970; Ord. 2-1985, passed 2-
27-1985; Ord. 6-1985, passed 5-23-1985)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement that
provides secondary access for the special accommodation of the abutting
property.
   BLOCK. An area that abuts a street and lies between two adjoining streets or
barriers such as a railroad right-of-way or a waterway.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the county or the Board of Public Works
and Safety of the town or the Board of Trustees of the Towns of Fairmount, or
Jonesboro, or Sweetser, or Upland, or Van Buren, Indiana, as may be applicable.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   CITY. The City of Marion, Indiana.
   COMMISSION. The Area Plan Commission of the county.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the county, the city and the towns, prepared by the Commission
and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-500 et seq., as is now or may
hereafter be in effect.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the town.
   COUNTY. County of Grant, Indiana.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT or DEAD-END STREET). A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot or group of
lots or structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Area Planning Department.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or persons, for specified purposes.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The unincorporated territory of the county,
the incorporated area of the city and the Towns of Fairmount, Jonesboro,
Sweetser, Upland and Van Buren, Indiana.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or development.
   MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PLAN (OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN). The part of
the Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter adopted, which includes a major street
and highway plan and sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions,
identification and classification of existing and proposed streets, highways
and other thoroughfares.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A road which parallels a major arterial street,
providing access from abutting property and separated from the highway by a
common dividing strip.
   ORDINANCE. Ch. 152 of the town code of ordinances.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
or any other group that acts as a unit or legal entity.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PRIVATE STREET. A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street, as
defined herein; except that, it is not dedicated to the public use. A driveway
which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not
considered as a PRIVATE STREET.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which shows the locations of proposed fire station sites and existing
and proposed school, park or recreational sites.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise
legally established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or other
appropriate name.
   STREET (or ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT. The construction of a STREET or ALLEY to its
full thickness, commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications
contained herein. The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed
surface STREET or ALLEY shall not be considered as an improvement, but as
maintenance.
   STREET, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL (PRIMARY- MAJOR ARTERIAL). A street providing for
through movement of large volumes of traffic. PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL STREETS are
intended to provide access to abutting property subject to necessary control of
entrances and exits for traffic movement and where safety conditions warrant.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street planned to facilitate the collection of
traffic from collector streets and usually located on neighborhood boundaries.
   STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR (SECONDARY-COLLECTOR). A street planned to
facilitate the collection of traffic from local streets, and to provide
circulation within neighborhood areas and convenient ways for traffic to reach
principal arterial streets.
   STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR. A street with lower traffic volumes fulfilling the
same function as major collectors.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
usually residential. Certain LOCAL STREETS may be marginal access streets
parallel to principal arterial streets, therefore, providing access from
abutting properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land
which complies with the definition of a “subdivision”, as defined in this
chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit, as part of
a unit, or as contiguous units on the last preceding transfer of ownership
thereof, into two or more parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less than
five acres in area, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer
of ownership; provided, however, that, the division or partition of land into
parcels of more than five acres not involving any new streets or easements of
access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners, where
such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites, or, the
division of a tract creating a parcel that is less than five acres in area and
which is improved with a residential structure at least five years of age as of
1-11-1971 or such division of a tract creating parcel less than five acres in
area which has been determined by the Commission to be excluded division of
real estate under §
152.20 of this chapter, shall not be considered SUBDIVISIONS; or, the
improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential, commercial or
industrial structures or groups of structures involving the SUBDIVISION and
allocation of land as streets or other open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public utilities and facilities.
   TOWN. The Towns of Fairmount, or Jonesboro, or Sweetser, or Upland, or Van
Buren, Indiana, as may be applicable.
   URBAN AREAS. The areas, as illustrated on Figure 14. These areas include
each incorporated community, as well as its surrounding area, expected to be
developed in a similar manner to the community in future years. Within the
URBAN AREAS, street and road rights-of-way will be developed in accordance with
the urban thoroughfare cross- sections.
   ZONING CODE. Ch. 153 of the town code of ordinances. The part of the
Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter adopted, which includes an ordinance and
zone maps which divides the area under the jurisdiction of the Commission into
districts, with regulations and requirements and procedures for the
establishment of land use controls.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.03 MAJOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PLAN.
   (A)   Major streets and highway maps and drawings. The official major
streets and highways plan (thoroughfare plans) consists of a map entitled
“Grant County, Indiana, or Fairmount, Indiana, or Jonesboro, Indiana, or
Sweetser, Indiana, or Upland, Indiana, or Van Buren, Indiana”, dated 1969, or
“City of Marion, Indiana”, dated 1973, and drawings entitled “Urban
Thoroughfares, Standard Cross- Sections” and “Rural Thoroughfares, Standard
Cross- Sections”, dated 1973, which show recommended design plans for the
proposed streets and highways. This official major streets and highways plan is
hereby incorporated by reference into this code, with two copies of the plan on
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and available for public inspection.
The notations, references, indications and other details shown therein are as
much a part of this code as if they were fully described in the text of this
code.
   (B)   Designation of major streets and highways. The major streets and
highways comprising the official major streets and highways plan are hereby
classified on the basis of width and type, in accordance with their proposed
function, as principal arterial, minor arterial, major collector, minor
collector and local streets.
   (C)   Policies and directives.
      (1)   Opening or widening of streets. Whenever a street classified in the
official major streets and highways plan is to be platted as part of a
subdivision, the required right-of-way width for such street shall be as
specified in the official major streets and highways plan; provided that, where
a street borders on a tract of land to be subdivided, the owner of such land
shall be required to plat only one-half of the right-of-way designated for such
street, measured at 90 degrees to the centerline thereof.
      (2)   Location of streets.
         (a)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the official
major streets and highways plan as following an existing road or street, or a
section or half-section or other established property line, the location of the
street shall conform to such location; however, a street lying wholly within a
subdivision, and not designated as following an existing road or established
property line, may be varied in its alignment when such variance promotes the
plan of a neighborhood development unit in accordance with good site planning
principles, and if such alignment provides for the continuity of traffic
movement.
         (b)   In the absence of any street being designated in each section of
land, within the jurisdiction, on or approximately on the north-south and east-
west section lines of such sections, it is the intent of the official major
streets and highways plan and this code that major collector streets be
established on such section lines.
         (c)   In the absence of any street being designated in each section of
land, within the jurisdiction, on or approximately on the north-south and east-
west half-section lines of such sections, it is the intent of the official
major streets and highways plan and this code that minor collector streets be
established on such half-section lines where feasible.
         (d)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the official
major streets and highways plan as following an irregular alignment, or a
revised alignment or is not referenced to an established lined it shall follow
the alignment shown in the official major streets and highways plan. Such
alignment shall be subject to a detailed survey which may be provided by the
Commission or other public agencies, or by the owners of land to be subdivided
if required by the Commission. The survey for such street shall be subject to
the approval of the Commission prior to the dedication of the street.
      (3)   Consideration by public agencies.
         (a)   The Board shall be guided by and give consideration to the
general policy and pattern of street development set out in the official major
streets and highways plan in the authorization, construction, widening,
alteration, relocation or abandonment of the public streets, highways and
related structures.
         (b)   No public way shall be abandoned or vacated until the Commission
shall have first given notice and held public hearing on vacation or
abandonment of such public way. The Commission shall forward its recommendation
to the Board. The Board shall not override the recommendation of the
Commission, except by unanimous vote.
      (4)   Issuance of permits. Any permits authorized by the Board including,
but not limited to, improvement location permits, permitting the erection,
alteration or relocation of structures and other improvements within the
jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be issued only if, in addition to
satisfying the requirements of other ordinances, the proposed street right-of-
way as set forth by this code will be protected from encroachment. In this
instance, the proposed street right-of-way lines will be considered as the
front line of lots and tracts bordering such street. Where 25% or more of the
lots in a block are occupied by buildings, the existing street right-of- way
line shall be considered as the proposed right-of- way line.
      (5)   Continuing authority of Commission. Subsequent to the passage of
this code, the Commission may determine lines for new, extended, widened or
narrowed thoroughfares in any portion of the area within the jurisdiction of
the Commission, and certify to the Board the amended or additional plan under
the same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
official major streets and highways plan.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.04 PUBLIC FACILITIES PLAN.
   (A)   Map of public facilities. The public facilities plan consists of a map
entitled “Grant County, Indiana, or Fairmount, Indiana, or Jonesboro, Indiana,
or Sweetser, Indiana, or Upland, Indiana, or Van Buren, Indiana”, dated 1969,
or “City of Marion, Indiana”, Public Facilities Plan, dated 1973, as may be
applicable, which shows the location of existing and proposed fire station,
school and park or recreation sites within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
The public facilities plan is hereby incorporated by reference into this
chapter. Two copies of the plan are on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and are available for public inspection. The notations, references,
indications and other details shown thereon are as much a part of this chapter
as if they were fully described herein.
   (B)   Policy. Whenever sites for fire stations, schools, parks or other
recreational areas are shown by the public facilities plan to be located within
an area proposed to be subdivided, in accordance with §§
152.20 through
152.24 of this chapter, the Commission may request their dedication for such
purposes, or their reservations for a period of one year following the date of
approval of the final plat, plus an additional six months when the governmental
agency concerned passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land
so reserved, in order to carry out the policies exhibited in the public
facilities plan.
   (C)   Consideration by public agencies. The Board and all school
corporations within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be guided by and
give consideration to the general policy and pattern of school and park or
recreation development as set forth in the public facilities plan in the
authorization, construction, alteration or abandonment, and acceptance of
schools, parks or recreation facilities.
   (D)   Continuing authority of Commission. Subsequent to the passage of this
chapter, the Commission may determine new sites and locations and alter or
change existing sites and locations for schools and parks or recreation areas
within the jurisdiction of the Commission, and certify to the Board the amended
or additional plan under the same procedure as established for the
certification and approval of the public facilities plan.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.05 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permits. Within the jurisdiction of the
Commission, no structure or improvement or use of land, may be altered,
changed, placed, erected or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless the
structure, improvement or use, and its location, conform with the master plan
and ordinance of the county, city or town, as may be applicable, and an
improvement location permit for such structure, improvement or use has been
issued. It is hereby declared that the intent of the permit requirements of the
ordinance shall not prevail with respect to agricultural buildings and uses.
   (B)   Written application required. The Zoning Administrator shall issue an
improvement location permit upon written application, when the proposed
structure, improvement or use and its location conform in all respects to the
Comprehensive Plan of the city, county or town, as may be applicable.
   (C)   Site or plot plan and fee.
      (1)   Site or plot plan. Every application for an improvement location
permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan, or site plan, drawn to scale,
showing: the legal or site description of the real estate involved; the
location and size of all buildings and structures; the widths and lengths of
all entrances and exits to and from the real estate; all adjacent and adjoining
roads or highways; and the manner in which the location is to be improved.
      (2)   Fee. An application for an improvement location permit, or an
amended or extended improvement location permit, shall be accompanied by the
fee set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the Commission.
   (D)   Appeal. Any decision of the Zoning Administrator concerning the
issuance of an improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals when the decision in question involves a requirement of the
Zoning Code or to the Commission when the decision in question involves the
requirements of other parts of the Comprehensive Plan, by any person claiming
to be adversely affected by such decision.
   (E)   Review. A decision of the Commission may be reviewed by certiorari
procedure as provided for the appeal of zoning cases from the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (F)   Remedies and penalties. Action on the violation of any provision of
this chapter and the right of injunction against such violation shall be as
provided by I.C. 36-7-4.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.06 AMENDMENT, VALIDITY, REPEAL AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   Amendments. All amendments to this chapter shall be in conformance
with I.C. 36-7-4.
   (B)   Validity. If any subchapter, section, division, clause, paragraph,
provision or portion of this chapter shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of proper jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect any other subchapter, section, division, clause, paragraph, provision or
portion of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 152.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   (A)   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the
jurisdiction of the Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been
approved by the Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in
writing on the plat by the President and Secretary of the Commission; provided,
however, that, since there will be divisions of land which would otherwise come
within the definition of a subdivision of land as set forth in this code, which
divisions will not adversely affect the present or future planning, public
health, safety, convenience or general welfare of the area, and accordingly
should be considered as excluded divisions of real estate rather than
subdivisions hereunder, the owner of such real estate or his or her agent may
file a verified application with the Commission on forms prescribed by it, at
least 21 days prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered, which
application, and supporting documents shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The township in which the real estate to be divided is located and
the key number assigned thereto for property tax purposes;
      (2)   The address or location of the real estate, the existing and
proposed use of the real estate and the reasons for such application;
      (3)   A plat plan drawn by a land surveyor showing lot lines and
dimensions, existing easements and improvements, existing public utilities,
proposed public utility easements where needed, legal description of land, all
as prescribed upon a form promulgated by this Commission; and
      (4)   Written approval of the county’s Health Department as to the
adequacy of the sewage system planned.
   (B)   The Commission, upon receiving the aforesaid application and
supporting documents, and after due consideration thereof, shall, without
public hearing or notice, determine whether the proposed division of land is or
is not a subdivision of land within the intent and purpose of this subchapter
of the code, which determination shall be entered in the minutes of the
Commission. If it is determined that it should be an excluded division of land,
the President and Secretary shall endorse the approval on the plot plan and
deed of easement submitted with the application, which shall then be entitled
to, and shall be placed of record in the County Recorder’s office.
(Prior Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972; Ord. 13-1986, passed 10-22-1986)
§ 152.21 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A subdivider desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision of any land
lying within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall submit a written
application therefor to the Director. Such application shall be accompanied by
the information, requirements and plans set forth in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2),
(C)(3) and (C)(4) below, all in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application the Director, if he or she determines
that the standards in this chapter have been met, shall set a date for a
hearing before the Commission, notify any person or governmental unit having a
probable interest in the proposed plat. The cost of publication of the notice
of hearing shall be met by the applicant.
   (C)   If the Director determines that the standards in this chapter have not
been met, he or she shall reject the application and provide the applicant with
a written notice of the items of non-compliance. If, upon a second submission,
made not sooner than 30 days after the first submission, the application is
again rejected by the Director, the applicant may request a hearing before the
Commission.
      (1)   Preliminary plat for subdivision.
         (a)   The owner or subdivider shall provide a preliminary plan for the
subdivision which shall show the manner in which the proposed sub- division is
coordinated with the Comprehensive Plan and its provisions; specifically with
relation to the requirements of the official major streets and highways plan;
school and recreational sites; shopping centers; community facilities;
sanitation, water supply and drainage, and other developments, existing and
proposed, in the vicinity; provided, however, that, no land shall be subdivided
for residential use unless adequate access to the land over improved streets or
thoroughfares exists or will be provided by the subdivider, or if such land is
considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of
flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation,
topography or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of possible
residents or the community as a whole.
         (b)   The subdivider shall provide the following:
            1.   Location map (which may be prepared by indicating the data by
notations on available maps) showing:
               a.   Subdivision name and location;
               b.   Any thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
               c.   Existing elementary and high schools, parks and playgrounds
serving the area proposed to be subdivided, and other community facilities; and
               d.   Title, scale, north point and date.
            2.   A preliminary plat showing:
               a.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
               b.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and the
planner, land planning consultant, engineer or surveyor, who prepared the plan;
               c.   Streets and right-of-way, on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision, showing the names (which shall not duplicate other names
of streets in the community, except as designated by the Commission) and
including roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavement,
curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, tree planting;
               d.   Easements: locations, widths and purposes;
               e.   Statement concerning the type, location and approximate
size or capacity of improvements to be installed as required by §
152.21 of this chapter;
               f.   Layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers;
               g.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
               h.   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of five feet if
the general slope is greater than 10%;
               i.   Ground water levels stated in depth to water table and a
description of the surface and sub-surface drainage systems to an approved
outlet;
               j.   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles
and references to section, township and range lines or corners;
         k.   Building lines;
         l.   Legend and notes;
               m.   Other features or conditions which would affect the
subdivision favorably or adversely;
               n.   Scale, north point and date. The preliminary plat of the
subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, or 100 feet to
one inch; provided, however, that, if the resulting drawing would be over 36
inches in shortest dimension, a scale as recommended by the Commission may be
used; and
               o.   Erosion control plan during construction.
            3.   A description of the protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision. These may be on
separate sheets.
         (c)   The application shall be accompanied by a certified check or
money order in an amount set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the
Commission. That amount shall be deposited in the county’s General Fund.
      (2)   Preliminary plat approval.
         (a)   After an application for approval of a plat of a subdivision
together with two copies of all maps and data, has been filed, and within 90
days from the date of application for approval of a preliminary plat of a
subdivision, or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever is later, the Commission shall review the
preliminary plat and give its acceptance or return the plat to the subdivider
with suggestions for changes. No application will be considered at a meeting
unless it has been filed with the Commission at least 21 days before the date
of such meeting.
         (b)   Following the hearing on the preliminary plat, the Commission
will notify the applicant in writing that it has approved the preliminary plat
and is ready to receive the final plat, or will advise the applicant of any
further changes in the preliminary plat which are desired or should have
consideration before approval will be given.
      (3)   Final plat. The final plat shall meet the following specifications.
         (a)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the preliminary
plat which has received approval.
         (b)   The original drawing of the final plat of the subdivision shall
be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch; provided that, the resulting
drawing shall be 18 inches by 22 inches. If necessary, in order to meet these
dimensions, a scale of 100 feet to one inch, may be used. Three black or blue
line prints shall be submitted with the original final plat or, in order to
conform to modern drafting and reproduction methods, three black line prints
and a reproducible print shall be submitted.
         (c)   The following basic information shall be shown:
            1.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot
in 5,000 feet;
            2.   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
street corners or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately
described on the plan;
            3.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
            4.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary;
            5.   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the
last entry in the books of the County Recorder;
            6.   Street names;
            7.   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plan;
            8.   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
of feet, with angles to street, alley and lot lines;
            9.   Lot numbers and dimensions;
            10.   Accurate locations of easements for utilities and any
limitations on such semi-public or community use;
            11.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or
reserved for public, semi- public or community use;
            12.   Building lines and dimensions;
            13.   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
            14.   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in
this chapter;
            15.   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
            16.   Name of the subdivision;
            17.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
            18.   North point, scale and date;
            19.   Certification by a registered land surveyor;
            20.   Certification of dedication of street and other public
property;
            21.   Certificate for approval by the Commission; and
            22.   Certificate for approval by the Board.
      (4)   Final plat approval.
         (a)   When the final plat is submitted to the Commission, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the Board stating that there has been filed with
and approved by that body, one of the following: a bond which shall:
            1.   Run to the Board;
            2.   Be in an amount determined by the Board to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter;
            3.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Board; and
            4.   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the improvements and installations
required of a sub- divider for the approval of a final plat, and prior to the
acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the Board or, if applicable, to
any other governmental unit, the subdivider shall provide a three year
maintenance bond which shall:
            1.   Run to the Board and, if applicable, to any other governmental
unit having a legal responsibility for the maintenance of the improvements and
installations;
            2.   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of the improvements
and installations as estimated by the Board;
            3.   Provide surety satisfactory to the Board;
            4.   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation and completion of the improvements and installations
to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike
manner in accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of
this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications therefor; and
            5.   Provide that, for a period of three years after the
installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted for public
maintenance by any appropriate governmental unit or agency thereof, the
subdivider will, at his or her own expense, make all repairs to the
improvements and installations, or the foundations thereof, which may become
necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials, with such
maintenance, however, not to include any damage to the improvements and
installations resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of the
subdivider or occasioned by the inadequacy of the standards, specifications or
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Within a reasonable time after application for approval of the
final plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Commission
approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal upon the plat, together with the
certifying signature of its President and Secretary. If it disapproves, it
shall set forth the reasons for such disapproval in its own records and provide
the applicant with a copy.
(Prior Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.22 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   The final plat of the subdivision shall conform to the following principles
and standards of design.
   (A)   General. The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and
standards which are generally exhibited in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (3)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to
the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (4)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   Widths of streets and highways shall conform to the width specified
in the Urban and Rural Standard Cross-Sections, dated 1974.
      (6)   The minimum right-of-way of local streets or cul-de-sacs in urban
areas shall be 50 feet. The minimum right-of-way of collector streets in rural
areas shall be 50 feet unless otherwise designated by the official major
streets and highways plan as requiring a minimum right-of-way of 90 feet. All
cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter
of 100 feet, or other arrangement for the turning of all vehicles conveniently
within the right-of-way, and shall not exceed 600 feet in length.
      (7)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts, but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
      (8)   The centerlines of streets should intersect as nearly at right
angles as possible.
      (9)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall
be rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of such arcs.
      (10)   At intersections of streets the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 15 feet, or by chords of such arcs.
      (11)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than
60 degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall
be increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
      (12)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
      (13)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
      (14)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, a principal or minor arterial street, provisions shall
be made for a marginal access street, or a parallel street adjacent to such
railroad right-of-way or principal or minor arterial street. As a general
principle, intersections of such marginal access streets or parallel streets
shall not exist at less than one-quarter mile intervals with principal arterial
streets or at less than one-eighth mile intervals with minor arterial streets.
      (15)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on
all streets must be maintained along the centerlines as follows:
         (a)   Principal arterial streets: 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor arterial streets: 300 feet; and
         (c)   Collector streets: 150 feet.
      (16)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum
radius as follows:
         (a)   Principal arterial streets: 500 feet;
         (b)   Minor arterial streets: 300 feet; and
         (c)   Collector streets: 200 feet.
      (17)   Between reversed curves on principal and minor arterial streets
there shall be a tangent of not less than 100 feet and on collector and
residential streets such tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
      (18)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Principal and minor arterial streets: not greater than 6%; and
         (b)   Collector streets, local streets and alleys: not greater than
8%.
      (19)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than
0.3%.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks should not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
      (2)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or principal or minor arterial street or a railroad right-of-way.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall abut on a public or private street.
      (2)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to
straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this rule is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
      (3)   Double frontage lots should not be platted; except that, where
desired along limited access highways or principal or minor arterial streets,
lots may face on an interior street and back on such thoroughfares. In that
event a planting strip for a screen, at least 20 feet in width shall be
provided along the back of each lot.
      (4)   Widths and areas of lots shall be not less than that provided in
the zoning ordinance for single-family dwellings for the district in which the
subdivision is located; except that, when a water main supply system or a
sanitary sewer system are not available, the lot area necessary to install a
private water supply or private sewage disposal on the lot in accordance with
the state’s Board of Health regulations shall become the required minimum lot
area.
      (5)   The depth-to-width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be a
maximum of three to one.
      (6)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound
development standards, should be designed in contrast to the platting of lots
for individual commercial use.
      (7)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to
permit appropriate setbacks from both streets.
   (E)   Easements. Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities
shall be provided. Such easements shall have minimum widths of 12 feet, and
where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot.
In the case of lots extending to the boundary of the lands plotted and not
adjoining another plat, the full width of the easement shall be provided on
such peripheral lots. Before determining the location of easements, the plan
shall be discussed with the local public utility companies to assure their
proper placing for the installation of such services.
   (F)   Building line. The building line shall be as provided in the zoning
ordinance.
   (G)   Public open spaces.
      (1)   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public uses
are located within the subdivision area as shown on the Comprehensive Plan, the
Commission may request their dedication for such purposes, or their reservation
for a period of one year following the date of the final approval of the plat.
      (2)   In the event a governmental agency concerned passes a resolution
expressing its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period
shall be extended for an additional six months.
   (H)   City park funds.
      (1)   Within the city, at the time a building permit is applied for, a
fee of $27.50 per lot in a subdivision shall be paid to the city. The sum shall
be made payable to the Park Department and shall be placed in a special fund to
be used only for the purchase of land and equipment for public parks and
playgrounds.
      (2)   No part of this fund shall be used to subsidize the operational
expenses of the aforementioned Department. This fee shall also be obtained
whenever any lot or parcel of land is excluded from the provisions of this
chapter by due process.
(Prior Code, § 152.22) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.23 STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvement of the subdivision shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center of the
pipe or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to
be marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade;
      (2)   Monuments shall be set:
         (a)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary
of the subdivision; and
         (b)   At the intersection of street property lines.
      (3)   Markers shall be set:
         (a)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
         (b)   At all points where lot lines inter- sect curves, either front
or rear;
         (c)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
         (d)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
      (4)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete or concrete poured
in place by minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30 inches. They
shall be marked on the top with an iron or copper dowel set flush with the top
of the monument or deeply scored on top with a cross. Markers shall consist of
iron pipes or steel bars at least 30 inches long, and not less than five-
eighths inch in diameter.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades
shown on plans, profiles and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and
prepared by a licensed surveyor and/or registered professional engineer and
approved by the Commission.
      (2)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by such plans, profiles and cross-sections.
      (3)   The street pavements shall be in accordance with specifications
established by the County Commissioners or the Common Council of the town or
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Fairmount, or Jonesboro, or Sweetser, or
Van Buren, or the Town Council of the Town of Upland, Indiana, as may be
applicable.
      (4)   Where principal and minor arterial streets are located within the
subdivision as specified in §
152.21 of this chapter, the subdivider shall construct such street pavement in
accordance with the requirements for collector streets set forth in division
(B)(3) above. For the purpose of constructing principal and minor arterial
street pavements according to the design characteristics set forth in division
(B)(3) above, the Board is authorized to use funds available for such purposes
to participate with the subdivider in the cost of such construction; provided,
however, that, such participation shall be limited to that cost of constructing
the required collector street improvement.
      (5)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate drainage
for the street shall be provided by the subdivider. Culvert drainage pipe, when
required, shall be coated corrugated metal pipe or a similar type not less than
12 inches in diameter approved by the Commission. Upon the completion of the
street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as built shall be filed with
the Commission.
   (C)   Sewers.
      (1)   Whenever the proposed subdivision is located within 500 feet of an
existing sanitary sewer facility or within an urban area as shown on Figure 4,
it shall be connected to a sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system, which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary
sewer outlet; except that, when such approved outlet is not available, one of
the following methods of sewage disposal shall be used, except within the city
where connection to a sanitary sewer is mandatory.
         (a)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the
minimum requirements of the county’s Board of Health, the state’s Board of
Health and/or the Stream Pollution Control Board.
         (b)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting
of a septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal
system, when laid out in accordance with the minimum standards of the state’s
Board of Health. (Refer to Bulletin PWS2, Standards for the Construction of
Private Water Wells and Water Systems.)
      (3)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the state’s Board of Health. (Refer
to current state administrative rules.) Upon the completion of the sanitary
sewer installation, the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the
Commission.
      (4)   In this division (C) and division (D) below, the phrase “the
subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to mean that the subdivider
shall install the facility referred to, or whenever a private sewage disposal
system or an individual water supply is to be provided, that such facilities
referred to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of the lots
in accordance with these regulations.
   (D)   Water.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system, which shall be connected to an existing approved municipal
or community water supply, except that when such municipal or community water
supply is not available, the subdivider shall provide one of the following,
except within the city:
         (a)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state’s Board of Health; and
         (b)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state’s Board of Health. (Refer
to current state administrative rules.)
      (2)   The plans for the installation of water main supply system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the state’s Board of Health. (Refer
to current state administrative rules.) Upon completion of the water supply
installation, the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the
Commission.
   (E)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   (a)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an adequate
storm water sewer system whenever curb and gutter is installed and whenever the
evidence available to the Commission indicates that the natural surface
drainage is inadequate.
         (b)   When the surface drainage is adequate, easements for such
surface drainage shall be provided.
         (c)   Deep open ditches for drainage are not permitted in the street,
but where curb and gutter are not provided, a shallow swale with its low point
at least three inches below the elevation of the subgrade of the pavement may
be permitted.
      (2)   In a subdivision where curbs and gutter are not provided, the
subdivider shall furnish one of the following types of improvements to
facilitate roadside drainage and to assure suitable entrances for private
driveways which are proposed to intersect the roadway:
         (a)   A corrugated metal pipe, at least 12 inches in diameter and 20
feet in length to be placed where required for each driveway; or
         (b)   A properly dipped or swaled concrete pavement, 14 feet in
length, six feet in width and six inches thick, designed so as not to create a
hazard to the under parts of automobiles, at the entrance of each driveway.
   (F)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   (a)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between
other subdivisions which have been provided with curb and gutter, or whenever
the proposed subdivision will average more than three and one-half lots per
gross acre included in the subdivision, the Commission shall require curb and
gutter to be installed on each side of the street surface.
         (b)   Curbs and gutters shall be provided in all subdivisions within
the city.
      (2)   The curb and gutter shall be of the construction type shown in
Figure 1 and shall be constructed according to the following specifications.
         (a)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well compacted on the
existing base or grade.
         (b)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the type of
cross-section in Figure 1.
         (c)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the state’s
highway specifications for Class A concrete.
         (d)   Integral or monolithic curb of the same dimensions as shown in
Figure 1 may be built on concrete pavement; provided, the pavement widths are
maintained as required in this chapter.
   (G)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, or whenever the proposed
subdivision will average more than three and one-half lots per gross acre
included in the subdivision, the Commission shall require sidewalks to be
installed on each side of the street. Sidewalks shall be provided within all
subdivisions within the city.
      (2)   The sidewalks shall be in accordance with specifications
established by the County Commissioners or the Common Council of the town, or
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Fairmount, or Jonesboro, or Sweetser, or
Van Buren, or the Town Council of Upland, Indiana, as may be applicable.
   (H)   Street signs. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
standard city, county or town street signs at the intersection of all streets.
(Prior Code, § 152.23) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.24 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this subchapter
would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, in the
opinion of the Commission, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
such provision, the Commission may authorize a variance. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the
Commission and the reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set
forth.
   (B)   Variances shall not be granted merely because it would be financially
advantageous to the applicant or because he or she would suffer financial loss
if it were denied.
(Prior Code, § 152.24) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
§ 152.25 PLAT CERTIFICATES AND DEED OF DEDICATION.
   The following forms shall be used in final plats:
   (A)   Commission certificate.
 
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-4 and an ordinance adopted by the (Common Council of the City of
Marion) (Board of County Commissioners of the County of Grant) (Board of Trustees of the Town of Fairmount)
(Board of Trustees of the Town of Jonesboro) (Board of Trustees of the Town of Sweetser) (Town Council of
the Town of Upland) (Board of Trustees of the Town of Van Buren), Indiana, this plat was given approval as
follows:
 
Approved by the Area Plan Commission of Grant County at a meeting held on
                                           , 20        .
 
Area Plan Commission - Grant County
 
                                                    
President
                                                    
Secretary
 
(SEAL)
 
 
   (B)   County Commissioners’ certificate. When all or any part of a
subdivision is located in the unincorporated area of the county, the following
certificate shall be shown on the final plat.
 
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-3, this plat was given approval by the Board of County Commissioners of Grant
County, Indiana, at a meeting held on the                    day of                        , 20            .
 
   Board of County Commissioners
 
Attest:                                    
County Auditor
 
(SEAL)
 
 
   (C)   Surveyor’s certificate.
 
I,                             , hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor, licensed in compliance with the
laws of the state of Indiana, that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
                         , that all the monuments shown thereon actually exist, and that the location, size, type and
material of said monuments are accurately shown.
 
Signature:                                                      
 
(SEAL)
 
 
   (D)   Deed of dedication. Each final plat submitted to the Commission for
approval shall carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
 
We, the                                                                      , owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that
we have laid off, platted and subdivided, and do thereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
 
This subdivision shall be known and designated as                                                           , an addition to
                                                                              . All streets and alleys shown, and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby
dedicated to the public.
 
Front and side yard building lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
 
There are strips of ground                                            feet in width as shown on this plat and marked “Easement” reserved for the use of
utilities for the installation of water and sewer
mains, surface drainage, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent or
other structures are to erected or maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject to the rights
of the utilities.
 
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions, would be inserted hereupon the subdivider’s initiative or upon the recommendation
of the Commission. Important provisions are those specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the minimum habitable
floor area.)
 
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
20        , (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants (or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten
years unless changed by vote of a majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part.
Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants or restrictions, by judgment or court order shall in no way affect any of the other covenants or
restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected, or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns.
 
Witness our Hands and Seals this              day of                , 20        .
 
State of Indiana   )
         )   SS:
County of Grant   )
 
                                                            
               Signature
 
Before me the undersigned notary public, in and for the county and state, personally appeared                               and each separately and
severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
 
Witness my hand and notarial seal this         day of              , 20         .
 
                                                            
               Signature
 
 
(Prior Code, § 152.25) (Ord. 5-1970, passed 1-11-1971; Ord. 4-1972, passed 8-
14-1972)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   County regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts the county’s zoning regulations, and any and all
amendments, and incorporates such provisions herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, §§ 153.01, 153.02) (Ord. 3-1992, passed 6-24-1992; Ord. 1-1997,
passed 1-8-1997; Ord. 7-2006, passed 7-26-2006; Ord. 10-2006, passed 11-29-
2006; Ord. 15-2007, passed 12-19-2007; Ord. 6-2008, passed 8-13-2008; Ord. 13-
2008, passed 12-10-2008; Ord. 6-2011, passed 4-13-2011; Ord. 8,2014, passed 11-
11-2014; Ord. 9-2017, passed - -2017; Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-15-2018; Ord. 2018-
2, passed 5-22-2018; Ord. 3- 2018, passed 7-3-2018; Ord. 1-2020, passed 3-3-
2020; Ord. 3-2020, passed 3-3-2020; Ord. 4-2020, passed 3-3-2020; Ord. 8-2024,
passed 5-21-2024; Ord. 9-2024, passed 4-16-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES; REZONINGS
      
V.   SALE AND TRANSFER OF PROPERTY
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DISANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing six tracks of contiguous territory, beginning at
5-1986   3-26-1986   the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of Section
                     9, Township 23 North, Range 9 East
                     Annexing contiguous territory, beginning at the northeast
6-1986   4-9-1986    corner of the southeast quarter of Section 9, Township 23
                     North, Range 9 East
                     Annexing two tracts of territory, commencing at the
9-1986   8-13-1986   northwest corner of the northeast quarter of Section Ten,
                     Township 23 North, Range 9 East
                     Annexing certain real estate, beginning at the north half
14-1987  9-9-1987    and all that part of the southwest quarter lying north of
                     the Mississinewa River
                     Annexing certain real estate, beginning at the north half
17-1987  9-23-1987   and all that part of the southwest quarter lying north of
                     the Mississinewa River
                     Disannexing real estate, beginning with the north half and
1-1988   1-12-1988   all that part of the southwest quarter lying north of the
                     Mississinewa River
                     Annexing certain real estate, commencing with all of
5-1988   3-1-1988    Section 4 South of the Penn Central right-of- way, except
                     for that part of the east half of Section 4 which has been
                     previously annexed by the town
                     Annexing certain real estate, commencing at a railroad
8-1988   - -1988     spike located in the northwest corner of the northwest
                     quarter
                     Disannexing real estate, beginning at the southwest corner
5-1990   8-8-1990    of Section 4, Township 23 North, Range 9 East in the
                     county
                     Annexing certain real estate, east on Berry Street,
3-2006   5-10-2006   Brookview Apartments, Haisley Addition and Kershner
                     Commons
                     Annexing certain real estate, east on Berry Street,
3-2007   3-28-2007   Brookview Apartments, Haisley Addition and Kershner
                     Commons
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
11-1987  8-26-1987   Assignment of the franchise from Community Tele-
                     Communications, Inc., to TCI of Indiana, Inc.
14-1988  9-28-1988   Transfer of outstanding and capital stock of TCI of
                     Indiana, Inc., to TCI South, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Vacating part of Stamper Addition to the town, commencing with future parking
12-  9-25-  area west of lot 16, 0.12 acre, driveways and parking areas, 1.24 acres, both
1985 1985   in the northwestern quarter of the northeastern quarter of South 10, Township
            23, Range 9 East
7-   4-23-  Vacating that alley which is contiguous with and directly west of Lots 19 and
1986 1986   22, and contiguous with and directly east of Lots 20 and 21, all in Bugher’s
            Seventh Addition
13-  8-26-  Vacating a portion of a public way, commencing at the intersection point of
1987 1987   the centerline of East Washington Street and the centerline of North Half
            Street
7-   9-13-  Vacating a portion of a public utility easement, commencing at the southwest
1989 1989   corner of the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 9 East
2-   6-26-  Vacating a strip of ground 16.5 feet of equal width and 132 feet in length,
1996 1996   the same being the platted alley lying between Lot 3 in Bugher’s Third
            Addition and Lot 4 in Bugher’s Second Addition
7-   8-14-  Vacating a strip of ground ten feet of equal width along the entire northern
1996 1996   boundary of platted Lot 28 in Viking Estates, Section 2
            Vacating a portion of a public way, described as 202.7 feet of a public
5-   3-12-  utility easement 12 feet of even width along the southern boundary and lying
1997 1997   between the 12-foot public utility easement which exists along the eastern and
            western boundaries of real estate located in the county
            Vacating a portion of a public way, described as that part of the north and
13-  8-13-  south alley south of West Washington Street, bounded on the east by Lots 50,
1997 1997   51 and 54 and bounded on the west by Lots 49, 52 and 53, all in Bugher’s
            Seventh Addition
16-  9-10-  Vacating a portion of a public way, described as a two- foot wide strip off
1997 1997   the entire north side of the dedicated 12-foot public utility easement running
            the length of Tract C as split from Lot Number 2 in Old Mill Subdivision
2-   3-30-  Vacating all of Church Drive in Willis Addition, Section 1
2005 2005
-    - -    Vacating Lots 178 to 190, 201 to 213 and 230 to 292 in Upland Land Company’s
2007 2007   First Addition; a portion of Jefferson Street; a portion of Ninth Street; a
            portion of Tenth Street; and two alleys
3-   4-9-   Vacating a portion of the southwest quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North,
2008 2008   Range 9 East, being part of Upland Land Company’s First Addition to the town
6-   7-13-  Vacating a portion of an alley which runs east and west between Wright Avenue
2011 2011   (W) and Reade Avenue (W)
           
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES; REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
3-   5-13-  Rezoning Lot 1 in Martha J. Lyon’s Second Addition, Jefferson Township to LB
1974 1974
3-   2-24-  Rezoning Lots 37 and 39 in the original plat of town from R- 3 to PB
1975 1975
            Rezoning: Lots 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 and 54 in Bugher’s Seventh Addition from R-
            2 to I-1; part of the northwestern quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North,
3-   6-8-   Range 9 East, from R-1 to R-2; Lot 11, Bugher’s Fourth Addition, from R-3 to
1983 1983   PB; Lots 236, 237, 238, 239, 240 and 241 University Addition from R-3 to PB;
            and 10.1 acres of the southwestern quarter of the northwestern quarter of
            Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 9 East, from Ag to R-A
            Rezoning two parcels of land, commencing with a 0.33-acre parcel in Section 2
10-  8-14-  of C and O Addition in the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North,
1985 1985   Range 9 East, and a 2.3-acre parcel in the northeast part of Section 1 of C and
            O Addition to Residential-1
1-   2-26-  Rezoning Lot 166 in University Addition from Residential-3 to Local Business
1986 1986
6-   5-13-  Rezoning real estate, commencing at the northwest corner of the northeast
1987 1987   quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 9 East, from Residential to
            Local Business
11-  12-13- Rezoning real estate, commencing at a point on the east line of the southwest
1989 1989   quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North, Range 9 East, of the Second Principal
            Meridian
7-   - -    Rezoning real estate, beginning at a point 24 feet east and 25 feet north of
1993 1993   the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of Section 3, Township 23 North,
            Range 9 East, Jefferson Township
            Rezoning real estate, beginning at a point on the west line at the southeast
8-   11-8-  quarter of Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 9 East, said point being south
1995 1995   00 degrees minutes 00 seconds 235.47 feet of the northwest corner of said
            quarter section, from Residential Suburban to Professional Business
10-  6-11-  Rezoning real estate, described as being in the north half of the west half of
1997 1997   the south half of Lot 1 and the east half of the south half of MJ Lyons
            Addition from Residential Suburban to Industrial-3
19-  11-5-  Rezoning all of the incorporated limits of the town regarding the use of the
1997 1997   variously zoned districts
9-   8-9-   Rezoning real estate (north side of 600 S. Berry Street, approximately east of
2006 2006   Main Street)
7-   10-24- Rezoning real estate (approximately 9968 E 500 S)
2007 2007
10-  11-14- Rezoning real estate (approximately 1707 Main Street)
2007 2007
7-   4-13-  Rezoning real estate (north side of 600 S. Berry Street, approximately east of
2008 2008   Main Street)
3-   4-8-   Rezoning real estate (north side of 600 S. Berry Street, approximately east of
2009 2009   Main Street)
           
 
TABLE V: SALE AND TRANSFER OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. 9-20-  Accepting donation and transfer of parcel No. 27-09-03-103- 097.000-013, the
2-   2022   “Deltamore home”, from the Upland Area Greenway Association (UAGA) to be
2022        utilized by the town as trailhead
            Accepting the offer from the State of Indiana for right-of-way access for
Res.        parcels Code #6957, Parcel 88 and Code #7102, Parcels 79 and 80 with the
3-   11-1-  following tax identification numbers: No. 27-09-03-103-097.000-013, No. 27-
2022 2022   09-03-103-095.000-013, No. 27-09-03-204-098.000- 013, No. 27-09-03-103-
            069.000-013, No. 27-09-03-204-076.000-013, No. 27-09-03-204-073.000-013, No.
            27-09-03-204-065.000-013, No. 27-09-03-204-048.000-013
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                   Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
4-13-18-5                    33.08
4-13-18-6                    33.08
4-21.5-3-7                   150.11
5-4-1                        31.15
5-14-3                       33.08
6-3.5-6-31                   32.04
7.1-3-9-3                    110.01
8-1.5-5-5(a)(2)              151.07
8-1-2-34.5                   50.50
8-1-2-121                    50.50
9-21-1                       70.01
22-12                        150.11
22-12-1-4                    150.03
22-12-1-5                    150.03
22-12-1-7                    150.03
22-12-1-14                   150.03
22-12-1-16                   150.03
22-12-1-17                   150.03
22-12-1-18                   150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)            150.12
22-12-1-24                   150.03
22-12-1-26                   150.03
22-12-7                      150.05
22-13                        150.11
22-13-2-3(b)                 150.12
22-13-2-6                    150.04
22-13-2-7                    150.11
22-13-2-7(b)                 150.12
22-13-2-9                    150.04
22-13-2-11                   150.05
22-14                        150.11
22-15                        150.11
22-15-3                      150.08
22-15-4                      150.04
25-37-1-2 et seq.            111.01
26-9-36                      33.03
31-6-4-15.7                  130.04
31-11-1-7                    130.04
32-25-2-9                    150.03
33-36                        31.33
34-28-5                      130.99
34-30-6-6                    92.01
34-52-1-1                    92.01
35-46-3                      91.06
35-46-3-7 through 35-46-3-13 91.17
36-1-3-1 et seq.             30.04
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-5-4                     150.12
36-1-6                       130.99
36-1-6-4                     150.99
36-1-6-9                     150.11
36-5-5-5                     31.15
36-7-3                       152.25
                             152.05;
36-7-4                       152.06;
                             152.25
36-7-4-207(c)                152.01
36-7-4-207(c)(8)             152.01
36-7-4-500 et seq.           152.02
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29   150.26
36-7-9-2                     33.01;
                             150.27
36-7-9-3                     150.25;
                             150.27
36-7-9-14                    150.28
36-7-12                      31.30
36-7-12-6                    31.30
36-7-14-7                    31.31
36-8-2-8                     92.12
36-8-17                      150.09
36-9-23                      51.06
36-9-23-31                   50.50;
                             51.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code        2020 Code
11.01             11.01
11.02             11.02
11.03             11.03
11.04             11.04
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.03             30.03
30.04             30.04
31.01             31.30
31.02             31.31
31.03             31.32
Ch. 32            31.01
33.01             33.02
33.02             33.03
34.01             32.01
34.02             32.02
34.03             32.01
34.04             32.01
34.05             32.03
50.01             50.01
50.15             50.15
50.16             50.16
50.17             50.17
50.18             50.18
50.19             50.19
50.20             50.20
50.21             50.21
50.22             50.22
50.23             50.23
50.24             50.24
50.25             50.25
50.26             50.26
50.27             50.27
50.28             50.28
50.29             50.29
50.30             50.30
50.45             50.45
50.46             50.46
50.47             50.47
50.48             50.48
50.49             50.49
50.50             50.50
50.51             50.51
50.52             50.52
50.53             50.53
50.99             50.99
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.03             51.03
51.04             51.04
51.05             51.05
52.02             52.02
71.01             70.01
72.01             70.02
72.99             70.99
Ch. 74, Schd. I   Ch. 72, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. II  Ch. 72, Schd. II
Ch. 74, Schd. III Ch. 72, Schd. III
74.99             70.99
Ch. 75, Schd. I   Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 75, Schd. II  Ch. 73, Schd. I
75.99             70.99
110.01            110.01
                  130.01—
130.01            130.04;
                  130.99
152.01            152.01
152.02            152.02
152.03            152.03
152.04            152.04
152.05            152.05
152.06            152.06
152.20            152.20
152.21            152.21
152.22            152.22
152.23            152.23
152.24            152.24
152.25            152.25
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2-2022   9-20-2022   TSO Table V
3-2022   11-1-2022   TSO Table V
5-2024   11-19-2024  Ch. 72, Schd. I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1-1970   5-18-1970   152.01
                     152.02—
5-1970   1-11-1971   152.06;
                     152.20—
                     152.25
                     152.02—
4-1972   8-14-1972   152.06;
                     152.20—
                     152.25
3-1974   5-13-1974   TSO Table IV
3-1975   2-24-1975   TSO Table IV
3-1983   6-8-1983    TSO Table IV
2-1985   2-27-1985   152.01
6-1985   5-23-1985   152.01
10-1985  8-14-1985   TSO Table IV
12-1985  9-25-1985   TSO Table III
1-1986   2-26-1986   TSO Table IV
2-1986   2-26-1986   31.01
5-1986   3-26-1986   TSO Table I
6-1986   4-9-1986    TSO Table I
7-1986   4-23-1986   TSO Table III
9-1986   8-13-1986   TSO Table I
                     50.01;
10-1986  8-13-1986   50.45—
                     50.53
                     50.15—
11-1986  8-13-1986   50.30;
                     50.99
13-1986  10-22-1986  152.20
3-1987   2-11-1987   51.01
6-1987   5-13-1987   TSO Table IV
                     51.01;
8-1987   6-10-1987   51.03;
                     51.04
11-1987  8-26-1987   TSO Table II
13-1987  8-26-1987   TSO Table III
14-1987  9-9-1987    TSO Table I
20-1987  9-9-1987    51.02
17-1987  9-23-1987   TSO Table I
24-1987  12-9-1987   31.01
8-1988   - -1988     TSO Table I
1-1988   1-12-1988   TSO Table I
3-88     2-24-1988   33.03
4-1988   3-1-1988    33.03
5-1988   3-1-1988    TSO Table I
11-1988  5-25-1988   31.01
14-1988  9-28-1988   TSO Table II
7-1989   9-13-1989   TSO Table III
10-1989  12-13-1989  31.31
11-1989  12-13-1989  TSO Table IV
5-1990   8-8-1990    TSO Table I
1-1991   10-23-1991  33.01
3-1992   6-24-1992   153.01
7-1993   - -1993     TSO Table IV
3-1994   3-9-1994    31.01
3-1995   6-14-1995   32.01
5-1995   9-13-1995   52.02
7-1995   10-14-1995  51.05
8-1995   11-8-1995   TSO Table IV
2-1996   6-26-1996   TSO Table III
7-1996   8-14-1996   TSO Table III
                     50.01;
13-1996  12-11-1996  50.30;
                     50.45—
                     50.52
                     51.01;
14-1996  12-11-1996  51.03;
                     51.04
1-1997   1-8-1997    153.01
5-1997   3-12-1997   TSO Table III
8-1997   5-14-1997   32.01
10-1997  6-11-1997   TSO Table IV
11-1997  7-23-1997   32.03
13-1997  8-13-1997   TSO Table III
16-1997  9-10-1997   TSO Table III
19-1997  11-5-1997   TSO Table IV
2-2005   3-30-2005   TSO Table III
3-2005   3-30-2005   53.01
3-2006   5-10-2006   TSO Table I
5-2006   - -2006     70.03;
                     70.99
7-2006   7-26-2006   153.01
9-2006   8-9-2006    TSO Table IV
10-2006  11-29-2006  153.01
-2007    - -2007     TSO Table III
3-2007   3-28-2007   TSO Table I
7-2007   10-24-2007  TSO Table IV
10-2007  11-14-2007  TSO Table IV
                     150.01—
14-2007  12-19-2007  150.12;
                     150.99
15-2007  12-19-2007  153.01
3-2008   4-9-2008    TSO Table III
7-2008   4-13-2008   TSO Table IV
6-2008   6-25-2008   52.02
6-2008   8-13-2008   153.01
8-2008   - 10-2008   51.01;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
                     50.01;
9-2008   -10-2008    50.45—
                     50.54
11-2008  9-24-2008   31.01
                     130.01—
12-2008  10-22-2008  130.04;
                     130.99
13-2008  12-10-2008  153.01
15-2008  12-29-2008  32.04
-        3-11-2009   32.01
3-2009   4-8-2009    TSO Table IV
3-2011   2-9-2011    52.02
                     150.25—
2011-2   2-9-2011    150.29;
                     150.99
6-2011   4-13-2011   153.01
                     71.01—
9-2011   6- -2011    71.07;
                     71.99
6-2011   7-13-2011   TSO Table III
2-2012   3-14-2012   31.01
2012-5   6-13-2012   31.01
2012-6   6-13-2012   33.05
6-2012   8-8-2012    31.01
                     111.01—
2012-11  10-10-2012  111.08;
                     111.99
2013-5   8-20-2013   31.01
2013-8   10-1-2013   31.01
2013-9   10-1-2013   31.32
2013-7   10-15-2013  33.04;
                     33.99
2013-10  11-19-2013  Ch. 73, Schd. III
2013-12  12-17-2013  31.01
2014-2   3-4-2014    31.01
2014-3   3-4-2014    31.01
8-2014   11-11-2014  153.01
2015-1   1-6-2015    31.01
2015-4   2-3-2015    151.01—
                     151.07
2015-3   4-7-2015    31.01
                     50.01;
6-2015   9-1-2015    50.45—
                     50.54
                     51.01;
7-2015   8-22-2015   Ch. 51, App. A—
                     Ch. 51, App. C
2015-9   10-6-2015   31.33
                     70.02;
                     70.99;
                     71.01—
                     71.07;
2015-10  11-10-2015  71.99; Ch. 72, Schd.
                     I,
                     II,
                     III; Ch. 73, Schd.
                     I,
                     II
                     90.01—
2015-11  11-10-2015  90.05;
                     90.99
2016-6   5-3-2016    33.06
8-2016   8-2-2016    31.01
2017-7   5-2-2017    31.15
9-2017   - -2017     153.01
1-2018   2-15-2018   153.01
2018-2   5-22-2018   153.01
3-2018   7-3-2018    153.01
2019-1   1-22-2019   93.02;
                     93.99
                     50.46;
2019-2   5-7-2019    51.01;
                     51.06;
                     51.99
                     92.01;
2019-3   8-20-2019   92.52;
                     92.99
2019-5   10-15-2019  30.01
2019-5   11- -2019   93.01;
                     93.99
1-2020   3-3-2020    153.01
3-2020   3-3-2020    153.01
4-2020   3-3-2020    153.01
2-2020   8-18-2020   34.01—
                     34.07
                     91.01—
2021-4   11-16-2021  91.17;
                     91.99
                     50.01;
2-2023   3-7-2023    50.45—
                     50.54
2-2024   2-20-2024   52.01—
                     52.05
                     92.01;
                     92.10—
                     92.14;
3-2024   3-5-2024    92.30—
                     92.35;
                     92.50—
                     92.59;
                     92.99
                     51.01; Ch. 51, App.
5-2024   3-19-2024   A,
                     B
6-2024   3-19-2024   50.47;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
7-2024   3-5-2024    33.08
8-2024   5-21-2024   153.01
9-2024   4-16-2024   153.01
                     Ch. 73, Schd. I,
10-2024  5-21-2024   II,
                     III
11-2024  8-6-2024    33.07
12-2024  9-17-2024   31.31
13-2024  9-17-2024   31.34
17-2024  11-19-2024  50.47;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
18-2024  12-19-2024  51.01;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
                    
 
