CITY OF VALPARAISO, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-11 Supplement contains:
State legislation current through 2023 Pamphlet No. 3;
Local legislation current through Ord. 21, 2023, passed 6-26-23
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 32-2005
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF VALPARAISO, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of
Valparaiso are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the city and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Common Council to revise, amend, restate, codify and to compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate the ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Common Council has authorized a general compilation, revision
and codification of the ordinances of the city of a general and permanent
nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
city and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the city that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Common Council of the City of
Valparaiso:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Valparaiso as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Valparaiso".
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
VALPARAISO, INDIANA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Provisions
         11.   City Standards
 
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   City Government
         31.   Common Council
         32.   City Officials
         33.   Boards, Departments and Commissions
         34.   Personnel Policies
         35.   City Policies
         36.   Ethics Policies
         37.   Ordinance Violations Bureau
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Water Works
         51.   Sewers
         52.   Industrial Pretreatment
         53.   Refuse and Recycling
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Traffic Regulations
            Appendix A: Explanation of citation
            Appendix B: Violation form
            Appendix C: Waiver allowing transfer
         72.   Parking Regulations
         73.   Traffic Schedules
         74.   Parking Schedules
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Abandoned Vehicles
         91.   Animal Control Regulations
         92.   City Cemeteries
         93.   Public Health and Safety Standards; Public Nuisances
         94.   Fire Prevention
         95.   Streets and Sidewalks
            Appendix: Waiver of objection to installation of sidewalk and
assessment thereof
         96.   Noise
            Appendix A: Scientific Definitions
            Appendix B: Octave-Band Breakdowns
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Auctions
         111.   Bowling and Billiards
         112.   Junk Dealers
         113.   Mobile Stores
         114.   Transient Merchants, Itinerant Merchants and Itinerant Vendors
         115.   Automobile Sales
         116.   Taxicab Operations
         117.   Theaters
         118.   Popcorn Festival and Other Charitable Activities
         119.   Cable Services
            Appendix: Credits to customers
         120.   Garage Sales, Porch Sales and Yard Sales
 
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Offenses
 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Regulations
         151.   Trailers and Trailer Camps
         152.   Sign Regulations
         153.   Zoning
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
INDEX
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of the Code except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
the Code; provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall
such appeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   PASSED by the Common Council of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana by a _____
vote of all members present and voting, this 11th day of July, 2005.
                                  /s/
                                    Jon Costas, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Sharon E. Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, this 11th
day of July, 2005 at the hour of           o’clock P.M.
                                  /s/
                                    Jon Costas, Mayor
/s/
Sharon E. Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 46-2007
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VALPARAISO, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2006 S-2 and 2007 S-3 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, which supplements contain all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Valparaiso Common Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
city and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the city that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VALPARAISO, PORTER COUNTY, INDIANA, as follows:
   Section 1. That the 2006 S-2 and 2007 S-3 supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Valparaiso as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Valparaiso Common Council and the Valparaiso City
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the City of Valparaiso, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
PASSED and ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana
this 26th day of November, 2007 by a _____ vote of_____members present and
voting.
                                 /s/ Jon Costas
                                 Jon Costas, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon E. Swihart
Sharon E. Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, this 26th
day of November, 2007 at the hour of           o’clock P.M.
                           /s/ Sharon Emerson Swihart
                           Sharon Emerson Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
This Ordinance approved and signed by me on this 26th day of November, 2007, at
the hour of _____o’clock P.M.
                                 /s/ Jon Costas
                                 Jon Costas, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 43-2008
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VALPARAISO, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2008 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Valparaiso, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Valparaiso Common Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
city and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the city that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VALPARAISO, PORTER COUNTY, INDIANA, as follows:
   Section 1. That the 2008 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Valparaiso as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Valparaiso Common Council and the Valparaiso City
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the City of Valparaiso, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
PASSED and ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana
this 8th day of December, 2008 by a _____ vote of_____members present and
voting.
                                 /s/ H. Jon Costas
                                 H. Jon Costas, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon Emerson Swihart
Sharon Emerson Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, this       
day of December, 2008 at the hour of           o’clock P.M.
                                 /s/ Sharon Emerson Swihart  
                                 Sharon Emerson Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
This Ordinance approved and signed by me on this       day of December, 2008,
at the hour of _____o’clock P.M.
                                 /s/ H. Jon Costas
                                 H. Jon Costas, Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 21, 2011
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VALPARAISO, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2011 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Valparaiso, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Valparaiso Common Council to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
City of Valparaiso and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the City of Valparaiso that this
ordinance take effect at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VALPARAISO, PORTER COUNTY, INDIANA, as follows:
   Section 1. That the 2011 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Valparaiso as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Valparaiso Common Council and the Valparaiso City
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the City of Valparaiso, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
PASSED and ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana
this  27th  day of June, 2011 by a  7-0  vote of all members present and
voting.
                     /s/ Jon Costas
                     Jon Costas, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon Emerson Swihart
Sharon Emerson Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
   Presented by me to the Mayor of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, this       
day of June, 2011 at the hour of           o’clock P.M.
                     /s/ Sharon Emerson Swihart  
                     Sharon Emerson Swihart, Clerk-Treasurer
This Ordinance approved and signed by me on this       day of June, 2011, at
the hour of       o’clock P.M.
                     /s/ Jon Costas
                     Jon Costas, Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Valparaiso Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the City Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The City Common Council.
      COUNTY. Porter County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the city is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) does not affect the operation of division
(B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The entire corporate boundaries of the city are hereby defined and
declared to be as set forth is division (B) below.
   (B)   Beginning where the north line of U.S. Highway Number 30M crosses the
west line of the east one-half of the northwest one-fourth of Section 26,
Township 35 North, Range 6 West, and running thence north along the west line
to the north line of the northwest one-fourth of Section 26; thence east along
the north line to the northeast corner of the northwest one-fourth, Section 26,
Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence north to the north right-of-way line of
the New York, Chicago and St. Louis (Nickel Plate) Railroad; thence
northwesterly along the north railroad right-of-way line to the west line of
the east one-half of the southwest one-fourth of Section 23, Township 35 North,
Range 6 West; thence north to the north right-of-way line of Joliet Road;
thence northeasterly along the north right-of-way line of Joliet Road to a
point 60.28 feet west of the southwest corner of Lot 6, Block 2 in Institute
Addition to the City of Valparaiso; thence northerly parallel to the west line
of Institute Addition to the City of Valparaiso to an iron pipe located midway
between the north line of Joliet Road and the north line of Farrell Street
extended and also four feet west of a straight line run to a point on the north
line of Farrell Street extended 60.28 feet west of the southwest corner of Lot
5, Block 3 in Institute Addition; thence northeasterly by a deflection of
approximately 3° to the right to the point on the north line of Farrell Street
extended 60.28 feet west of the southwest corner of Lot 5, Block 3 in Institute
Addition; thence northeast 60.28 feet to the southwest corner of Lot 5, Block 3
in Institute Addition; thence northwesterly along the west line of Lot 5, Block
3 of the Institute Addition to the north line of the southwest one- fourth of
Section 23, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence east along the north line
to its intersection with the east line of the northwest one-fourth of Section
23, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence north along the east line to the
north right-of-way line of the Pennsylvania Railroad; thence northwesterly
along the north right-of-way line to its intersection with the southerly
extension of the west line of Amstutz Subdivision; thence north along the west
line and west line extended to the north line of the subdivision; thence 234.5
feet west along the center line of O’Reilly Street, now vacated, in Emmetsburg
Subdivision; thence north 302.0 feet; thence east 413.5 feet; thence south
302.0 feet; thence east to the west line of the northeast one-fourth of Section
23, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence north along the west line and the
west line southeast one-fourth of Section 14, Township 35 North, Range 6 West
to the center line of Harrison Boulevard; thence northwesterly along the center
line of the westerly extension of Harrison Boulevard (Keeler Road) to its
intersection with the west line of the east one-half of the southwest one-
fourth of Section 14, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence south to the
north right-of-way line for the Grand Trunk Railroad; thence Northwesterly
along the right-of-way line of the Grand Trunk Railroad to the west line of the
southwest one-fourth of Section 14, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence
north along the west line to its intersection with the centerline of Harrison
Boulevard extended (Keeler Road); thence southeasterly along the centerline to
its intersection with the west line of the east one-half of the northwest one-
fourth of the southwest one-fourth of Section 14, Township 35 North, Range 6
West; thence north to the north line of Section 14, Township 35 North, Range 6
West; thence east to the southwest corner of the southeast one-fourth of
Section 11, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence North 1447.0 feet; thence
east to the west line of Section 12, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence
north along the west line to the northwest corner of Section 12, Township 35
North, Range 6 West; thence continuing north along the west line of Section 1,
Township 35 North, Range 6 West 1313.0 feet; thence east 458.0 feet; thence
north 402.93 feet to the south line of Campbell Oaks Subdivision; thence east
on the south line of Campbell Oaks Subdivision 870.71 feet; thence south 390.70
feet; thence east 1328.08 feet to the east line of the southwest one-fourth of
Section 1, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence south on the east line of
the southwest one-fourth 1336.96 feet to the north line of Section 12, Township
35 North, Range 6 West; thence east to the northeast corner of Section 12,
Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence south to the northeast corner of the
southeast one-fourth of Section 12, Township 35 North, Range 6 West; thence
east along the north line of the south one-half of Section 7, Township 35
North, Range 5 West to the northeast corner of the northwest one-fourth of the
southwest one-fourth of the Section 7, Township 35 North, Range 5 West; thence
south to the northeast corner of the southwest one-fourth of the southwest one-
fourth of Section 7, Township 35 North, Range 5 West; thence east 317.0 feet;
thence south to the north line of Section 18, Township 35 North, Range 5 West;
thence east to the northeast corner of Section 18, Township 35 North, Range 5
West; thence south to the northern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway Number 30;
thence westerly along said right-of-way line to the point of beginning. In
addition, all land annexed since 1980. In deletion, all land dis-annexed since
1980.
(‘89 Code, § 18.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
   
31.   COMMON COUNCIL
   
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
33.   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
   
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
   
35.   CITY POLICIES
   
36.   ETHICS POLICIES
   
37.   ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
   
38.   ADVISORY HUMAN RELATIONS COUNCIL
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Organization
   
30.02   Elections
   
30.03   Councilmanic districts
   
30.04   Conflicts, omissions, duplications and construction
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The government of the city shall consist of three branches as follows:
      (1)   Executive;
      (2)   Fiscal; and
      (3)   Legislative.
   (B)   In addition to the three branches herein named, there shall also be
statutory boards and commissions as established by this code.
(‘89 Code, § 10.01)
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   Elections of Council members and other city officials are held in odd-
numbered years immediately preceding presidential election years. Terms shall
be for four years.
(‘89 Code)
§ 30.03 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   The city shall be divided into five Council councilmanic districts for the
purposes of electing Council members. The five Council districts are described
as follows (descriptions include only those portions of the listed election
precincts which are within the city's corporate boundaries):
(‘89 Code, § 11.06)
   (A)   District 1 (Ward #1): Center 03; Center 16; Center 17; Center 22;
Center 24; Center 31; Washington 02; and Morgan 03.
(‘89 Code, § 11.02)
   (B)   District 2 (Ward #2): Center 01; Center 02; Center 05; Center 09; and
Center 28.
(‘89 Code, § 11.03)
   (C)   District 3 (Ward #3): Center 06; Center 07; Center 08; Center 19;
Center 26; and Center 29.
(‘89 Code, § 11.04)
   (D)   District 4 (Ward #4); Center 11; Center 14; Center 15; Center 18;
Center 21; Center 25; and Center 33.
(‘89 Code, § 11.05)
   (E)   District 5 (Ward #5): Center 13; Center 27; Center 30; Center 34;
Center 35; and Washington 03.
(‘89 Code, § 11.06) (Am. Ord. 25, 2022, passed 11-14-22)
§ 30.04 CONFLICTS, OMISSIONS, DUPLICATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Attached to Ordinance 25, 2022 as Exhibit A are maps showing the
boundaries of each Council district collectively and separately (the "maps")
which maps are incorporated herein by reference. Two copies of the foregoing
maps are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection as
required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (B)   If a conflict exists between the maps and the descriptions set forth
in § 30.03 (the "descriptions"), in accordance with I.C. 3-5-10-9, the
descriptions shall determine the boundaries of the Council district.
   (C)   If any territory in the city is not included in one of the Council
districts, in accordance with I.C. 3-5-10-10, the excluded territory shall be
included in the Council district that: (i) is contiguous to that territory; and
(ii) contains the least population of all Council districts contiguous to that
territory.
   (D)   If any territory in the city is included in more than one of the
Council districts, in accordance with I.C. 3-5-10-11, the territory shall be
included in the Council district that: (i) is one of the districts in which the
territory is described in this chapter; (ii) is contiguous to that territory;
and (iii) contains the least population of all Council districts contiguous to
that territory.
   (E)   In accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-5(p) this chapter must be construed, if
possible, to comply with the provisions of I.C 36-4-5-6. The provisions of this
chapter are severable and if any provision is found to be invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid provision.
(Ord. 25, 2022, passed 11-14-22)
CHAPTER 31: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Authority; duties
   
31.02   Meetings
   
31.03   Consideration of ordinances and resolutions
   
31.04   Appointment of liaison and other Council committee members
   
31.05   Election of the Council
§ 31.01 AUTHORITY; DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative branch of the city’s government shall be the Common
Council. The Council shall have the exclusive authority to adopt ordinances,
resolutions and to appropriate tax monies and other monies received by the city
and to perform other necessary and desirable legislative functions pursuant to
I.C. 36-4-6-1 et seq.
(‘89 Code, § 10.04)
   (B)   The City Common Council possesses powers to:
      (1)   Provide a corporate seal;
      (2)   Fix salaries and compensation of city officials in accordance with
general law;
      (3)   Protect all city property;
      (4)   Provide punishment for contempt in the rooms of the Council;
      (5)   Provide a census of the city;
      (6)   Receive gifts, donations and bequests for the city;
      (7)   Declare what constitutes a nuisance, and provide for its prevention
and punishment of any person creating a nuisance;
      (8)   Regulate or prohibit itinerant street performers;
      (9)   Authorize cleansing and purification of water;
      (10)   Regulate manufacturing plants within four miles of the corporation
limits of the city where public health and comfort may require this regulation;
      (11)   Prevent or regulate use of firearms, fireworks and the like;
      (12)   Regulate and prohibit fowls and animals from running at large;
      (13)   Prevent the deposit of any unwholesome substance and compel its
removal to at least four miles outside the corporate limits;
      (14)   Compel the occupants of unclean places to cleanse them, the
jurisdiction being four miles beyond the corporate limits;
      (15)   Regulate and prevent storage of any explosive or combustible
material;
      (16)   Regulate the location and management of cemeteries or burial
places for a distance of four miles from the city limits;
      (17)   Establish quarantine regulations, and authorize removal or
confinement of persons having infections or contagious diseases for four miles
from the corporate limits;
      (18)   Record births and death, and make regulations to improve health
and suppress disease;
      (19)   Regulate and prohibit excess street noises;
      (20)   Direct the location and regulate management of public markets;
      (21)   Authorize and require inspection, and regulate sale of meat,
poultry, fish and other foodstuffs;
      (22)   Regulate selling, weighing and measuring of hay, wood, coke and
all other articles sold by weight or measure;
      (23)   Authorize and require the inspection and licensing of steam
boilers and elevators;
      (24)   Define the fire limits in the city, and the character of buildings
as to height, construction and the like, and see that the buildings are safe in
structure;
      (25)   Compel persons about to undertake dangerous improvements to
execute bonds with sufficient surety to pay all damages sustained by any
worker;
      (26)   Regulate construction of chimneys, smokestacks, hearths, ovens and
stoves, and have the same removed when dangerous; inspect buildings that may be
fire hazards; see that fire escapes are available where needed; and require and
regulate use of smoke consumers;
      (27)   Authorize and require inspection of gas and water pipes and
drainage (the Council may establish the city drainage district); sewers and
electric lines or wires; compel them to be repaired and made secure; and
authorize appointment of inspectors for compliance with these requirements;
      (28)   Regulate the keeping of lumber yards and the piling of lumber, hay
and straw within the city limits;
      (29)   Regulate, maintain and control wharfs and fix rates of wharfage;
regulate landing and loading of board and water craft; prohibit or regulate
dumping of material upon the bank of or in any river and the obstruction of any
stream;
      (30)   Require owners of real estate to cut and remove weeds and other
rank vegetation growing on the property;
      (31)   Prevent immoderate and careless riding or driving; regulate use of
streets by persons and vehicles of all kinds; regulate the numbering of houses
and lots; name or change the name of any street or park; regulate the making of
private connections with sewers, gas, water and other like pipes and public
conveniences; compel the conveniences to be brought inside the curbs; authorize
appointment and compensation of a Street Commissioner, deputies, and any other
officers necessary to keep the streets and alleys clean;
      (32)   Regulate, tax and license coaches, hacks, drays, automobiles and
all other vehicles for hire;
      (33)   Regulate, license, tax, restrain or prohibit theatrical or any
other type of performance or entertainments;
      (34)   Regulate, license, tax or prohibit runners at any transportation
station or any other public places;
      (35)   Regulate sale of all kinds of property at auction and issue
licenses for auctions;
      (36)   Regulate the laying of mains and pipes and stringing of wires by
gas, electricity, telephone, heat and water utilities and the character of
service provided by these utilities;
      (37)   License, tax, regulate, suppress and prohibit hawkers and
itinerant dealers, peddlers and pawnbrokers;
      (38)   License, tax and regulate public hackmen, draymen, omnibus
drivers, carters, cabmen, porters, expressmen, bill-posters and the like for
pay or hire; and prescribe their compensation;
      (39)   License, tax and regulate or prohibit all inns, taverns, hotels,
restaurants or other places for public entertainment;
      (40)   Regulate and license lumber yards, livery stables and public
scales;
      (41)   Tax, license and regulate second-hand and junk stores and
pawnbrokers;
      (42)   License, tax, regulate or prohibit the keeping or harboring of
dogs;
      (43)   License, tax, regulate or prohibit operation of dairies and the
keeping of milk cows;
      (44)   License, tax and regulate branch stores or establishments or other
temporary concerns, and itinerant physicians and vendors of medicine and other
articles;
      (45)   Preserve peace and good order, prevent vice and immorality; quell
riots and disperse disorderly assemblages; regulate the time and place of and
restrain or prohibit bathing in the rivers or public waters of the city and
direct location and management of public bathhouses; restrain and punish
vagrants and the like. The city jurisdiction extends to four miles from the
city limits. Under this section the city has the power to prohibit picketing in
labor disputes when necessary to preserve peace and order;
      (46)   Keep rivers, streams and other waterways open, and prevent the
waters thereof from becoming polluted; establish and regulate ferries;
determine, survey and mark the lines and banks of the streams, rivers and other
waterways passing through or bordering upon the corporate limits of the city,
and provide for changing their course; provide in what manner and on what terms
real estate in the city may be drained or sewered, by surface or under drains
or sewers across other real estate within the city or within four miles
thereof;
      (47)   Secure the safety of citizens and other persons in the running of
trains or cars in and through the city, whether propelled by steams,
electricity or other motive power;
      (48)   Authorize the alienation and conveyance of any property, real or
personal, belonging to the city whether used for public and governmental or for
private purposes;
      (49)   Establish, maintain and regulate pounds, market houses, market
places, houses of refuge, hospitals, dispensaries, engine houses and all other
public city institutions;
      (50)   Regulate the building of party walls and partition fences;
      (51)   Appropriate up to $500 per year for expenses of delegates from the
city to municipal conventions, or expenses of holding educational, military or
civic conventions within the city;
      (52)   Erect, purchase or lease water works, gas works, electric light
works, heating, steam and power plants for the purposes of providing the
services to the public;
      (53)   Enact zoning regulations, building codes and the like;
      (54)   Establish a City Plan Commission and a Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (55)   Establish and operate municipal parking grounds;
      (56)   Levy additional taxes to pay necessary expenses of sewage disposal
plants and flood prevention projects;
      (57)   Levy taxes for the purchase, construction and maintenance of
playgrounds and recreational centers and establish a Board of Recreation to
administer the programs;
      (58)   Levy taxes for the construction and operation of libraries;
      (59)   Acquire and operate airports and landing fields; issue revenue
bonds for airport construction or improvement;
      (60)   Construct stadiums;
      (61)   Lease city owned hospitals to duly incorporated hospital
associations within the community;
      (62)   Create and provide for a cumulative building or sinking fund to
provide funds for the building and repair of bridges;
      (63)   Create a Department of Traffic Engineering, to be headed by a City
Traffic Engineer appointed by the Mayor;
      (64)   Provide for the continuance of public transportation services if
the services are endangered for economic reasons; and
      (65)   Carry out other necessary functions of the city corporations.
(‘89 Code)
§ 31.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   An organizational meeting shall take place at 7:30 p.m. on the first
Monday in January of the year following a municipal election.
   (B)   The regular meeting dates of the City Common Council shall be the
second and fourth Mondays of each month at 7:30 p.m. prevailing time.
   (C)   Special meetings of the Common Council may be scheduled with written
notice given to all members and specified therein shall be the particular
purpose for which the special meeting was called. The written notification
shall be signed by the Mayor when requested by the Mayor or signed by the
members of the Common Council when requested by the Council. The written
notification shall contain the official seal of the city and shall be signed by
the City Clerk-Treasurer. Copies of the written notice shall be personally
served upon all members and the notice shall be served by the Chief of Police
or his or her duly authorized representative. No business shall be transacted
at a special meeting of the Common Council unless the subject of the business
is specified in the written notice for that meeting. The minutes of any special
meeting shall include the contents of the written notice for that meeting and
shall further include the details pertaining to the service of the notice as
provided herein. Special Meetings may be requested in the manner hereinbefore
stated by four members of the Common Council in the event that the Mayor is
unable or unwilling to call a special meeting. If a special meeting is called
under these circumstances, the written notice of the meeting should include
wording so as to reflect the Mayor’s inability or refusal to call the special
meeting.
   (D)   At any meeting of the Common Council, four Council members shall
comprise a quorum for the transaction of business. Smaller number of members
may meet, adjourn, and/or, from time to time, compel the attendance of members.
   (E)   The Mayor shall preside as Chairman of all meetings of the City Common
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the members of the Council shall choose
one of its members to preside as President Pro Tempore, who shall preside for a
meeting or remainder of a meeting due to the unavailability of the Mayor.
   (F)   Any meeting of the Common Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules
of Order, unless the rules conflict with this section or any applicable
statute, in which case the ordinance or statute shall prevail. All meetings of
the Common Council shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-10 through 36-4-
6-17 and in accordance with the following order of business which is adopted as
a part of this section with the stipulation that the order of business at any
meeting of the Council may be changed by a majority vote of the elected members
of the Council:
      (1)   Call to Order;
      (2)   Roll Call by the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Approval of the minutes of the previous meeting(s);
      (4)   Reception of petitions or other communications;
      (5)   Communications from the Mayor or President Pro Tempore;
      (6)   Report from Liaison Council Members as follows:
         (a)   Police Department;
         (b)   Fire Department
         (c)   Finance Department;
         (d)   Waste Water Treatment and Sewer Department; and
         (e)   Street and Solid Waste Disposal Department.
      (7)   Reports from Standing and/or Select Committees;
      (8)   Reports from city officers as follows:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   City Attorney;
         (c)   City Engineer;
         (d)   Chief of Police;
         (e)   Fire Chief;
         (f)   City Planner;
         (g)   Building Department;
         (h)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
         (i)   Department of Waterworks;
         (j)   Street and Solid Waste Disposal Department; and
         (k)   Waste Water Treatment and Sewer Department
      (9)   Consideration of ordinances;
      (10)   Consideration of resolutions;
      (11)   Unfinished business;
      (12)   New business;
      (13)   Comments from the public in attendance; and
      (14)   Adjournment.
(‘89 Code, § 10.04)
§ 31.03 CONSIDERATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
prior to the meeting at which the ordinance or resolution is to be considered.
Any ordinance or resolution not contained in the published agenda of a
particular meeting of the Common Council may be considered with the consent of
the Council by a majority vote of the elected Council Members.
   (B)   All ordinances shall be read aloud in their entirety at the time of
introduction and first reading. The second and third readings may be by a
reading of only the title of the ordinance with the exception of ordinances for
the appropriation of funds, which must be read in full upon third reading. An
ordinance may be presented and approved at one meeting with the unanimous
consent of not less than five members of the council being present and voting
in favor of the action.
   (C)   All resolutions may be adopted at the time of their introduction if
the action is approved by a majority vote of the elected members of the Common
Council.
   (D)   All ordinances and resolutions and/or other action of the Common
Council must be approved by a majority vote of the elected Council members.
This shall mean that four affirmative votes must be made for the passage of any
motion unless otherwise provided by law. In any action requiring a two- thirds
vote of the elected members of the Common Council five affirmative votes must
be made for the passage of any motion.
   (E)   The Mayor as Chairman or the President Pro Tempore shall require a
vote by a calling of the roll for a motion made for the adoption of an
ordinance or a resolution, which vote shall be taken and recorded by the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance or resolution, the ordinance or
resolution shall immediately be in effect unless otherwise stated therein, and
the ordinance or resolution shall be processed and recorded as provided by law.
(‘89 Code, § 10.04)
§ 31.04 APPOINTMENT OF LIAISON AND OTHER COUNCIL COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
   (A)   No later than the first regular meeting of the Common Council on the
month of January of each calendar year, the members of the Common Council shall
meet and appoint one, or more, member(s) of the Council to serve as a liaison
(s) to any board, commission, committee and/or department of the city as the
Council deems appropriate.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the word LIAISON is defined as a
member of the Common Council that is appointed by the Council to serve as a
contact between the Council and a specific board, commission, committee and/or
department of the city. Liaisons shall communicate with  the specific board,
commission, committee and/or department as the liaison deems necessary.
Liaisons shall provide reports to the Common Council on at least a quarterly
basis concerning to the activities of the board, commission, committee and/or
department to which the liaison is assigned.
      (2)   The Common Council may appoint one or more members to serve as
liaisons to any of the following:
         (a)   Valparaiso Community Schools;
         (b)   Public Safety;
         (c)   Park Department;
         (d)   Finance;
         (e)   Utilities;
         (f)   Engineering/Building/Code Enforcement;
         (g)   Technology;
         (h)   Human Resources;
         (i)   Ordinances;
         (j)   Festival & Events; or
         (k)   Transportation.
      (3)   The above list of possible liaison appointments is not intended to
limit or otherwise restrict the Council's power to appoint liaisons to any
board, commission, committee or department of the city as the Council deems
necessary.
   (B)   Any change in the appointment of a liaison Council member(s) may be
made by the members of the Common Council at any regularly scheduled meeting
upon the affirmative vote of the majority of elected Council members present
and voting. The Common Council may appoint additional liaisons as the Council
deems appropriate.
   (C)   The Common Council may create standing committees and establish their
duties. A Traffic and Safety Committee shall be established and consist of one
member of the Common Council, who shall serve as Chairman of that Committee,
and various Department Heads as may be deemed appropriate by the Common
Council.
   (D)   Select committees of the Council may be appointed by the Mayor or the
Common Council if a select committee for a particular purpose is deemed
necessary with the power of appointment passing to the Mayor if it is his or
her desire to appoint a committee for a particular purpose and with the power
of appointment given to the Council if it is the decision of that governmental
body to appoint a committee for a particular purpose. A select committee so
appointed shall be dissolved if its report has been made and there is no
further business or function to be performed. Dissolution of a select committee
shall be accomplished by no formal action of the Common Council.
   (E)   When an item of business has been referred to a committee of the
Council, the Council member requesting the referral shall have the right to
meet with and act as a member of the committee during its deliberations and
discussions and shall have the right to vote on any business of the committee.
   (F)   In accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-6 the following provisions shall apply
to the vacation of a Council member's seat and/or the expulsion of a Council
member from the Council:
      (1)   The Common Council may declare the seat of any member vacant if he
or she is unable to perform the duties of his or her office.
      (2)   The Common Council may expel any member for violation of an
official duty.
      (3)   An affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council
present and voting is required to expel a member or to vacate his or her seat.
      (4)   If a Council member's seat is declared vacant and/or a Council
member is expelled in accordance with this Chapter, then the Council member's
liaison appointments will be assigned to the Council member's successor.
   (G)   In addition to appointing liaisons as set forth above, state law also
requires the Council to appoint individuals to serve as voting members of the
following boards and/or commissions:
      (1)   Plan Commission, I.C. 36-7-4-209;   
      (2)   Redevelopment Commission, I.C. 36-7-4-209;   
      (3)   Valparaiso Community School Board, I.C. 36-7-14-7;
      (4)   Economic Development Commission, I.C. 36-7-12-5;
      (5)   Board of Zoning Appeals, I.C. 36-7-4-902.   
(‘89 Code, § 10.04) (Am. Ord. 25-2012, passed 11-12-12)
§ 31.05 ELECTION OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Common Council has seven members. The city is divided into five
councilmanic districts and one candidate for Councilperson-at-large. The
candidate in each district who receives the largest number of votes is elected
over the other candidates for his or her particular district, and the
candidates for Councilperson-at-large who receive the largest number of votes
for that office are elected.
(‘89 Code)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Mayor
   
32.02   Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.03   City Attorney
   
32.04   City Administrator
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
33.19
§ 32.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall be City Executive and shall serve as the
head of the executive branch of the city’s government. He or she shall perform
executive duties and functions pursuant to state law.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
   (B)   The duties of the Mayor are as follows:
      (1)   Execute and supervise enforcement of the ordinances of the city and
the laws of the state;
      (2)   Communicate to the Council at least once a near a statement of the
finances and general conditions of the city, and other information related to
city affairs:
      (3)   Make any recommendations in writing, by message to the Council, as
he or she may deem expedient;
      (4)   Perform duties of an executive or administrative character as may
be prescribed by law, and exercise general supervision over subordinate
officers and be responsible for the efficiency of city government;
      (5)   Fill by appointment vacancies for unexpired terms in the offices of
the city, except in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor or Council member;
      (6)   Appoint the heads and employees of various departments of city
government, and any other appointments as may be provided by law or by the
ordinances of the city. The Mayor appoints the deputies of certain elective
officials. The Mayor may, at any time, suspend or remove from office any or all
of the heads of departments or other persons, whether appointed by him or her
or by any of his or her predecessors;
      (7)   Sign all bonds, deeds and written contracts of the corporation and
all licenses issued pursuant to law by any department;
      (8)   Approve or disapprove, within ten days in writing, ordinances
passed by the Common Council. He or she may veto items of an appropriation of
levy measure. His or her veto may be overridden by a two-thirds vote of the
Council.
      (9)   Call monthly meetings of city department heads. The meeting is
empowered to adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of affairs of
individual departments;
      (10)   Appoint three persons to check and examine the accounts of each
department without notice;
      (11)   Fix the salaries of certain officials and deputies, subject to
approval of the Common Council; and
      (12)   Issue proclamations commemorating special events, weeks, days and
the like.
(‘89 Code)
§ 32.02 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer will serve as the City Fiscal Officer and shall
serve as the head of the fiscal branch of the city’s government. He or she
shall perform the duties set forth in I.C. 36-4-10 and also the following:
(‘89 Code, § 10.03)
      (1)   Keep a record of the Council’s proceedings;
      (2)   Prepare an ordinance book and compilation of ordinances;
      (3)   Retaining charge of city documents and books;
(‘89 Code)
      (4)   Serve as the Secretary of the Board of Public Works and Safety and
of the Common Council;
      (5)   Keep, maintain and control the written actions of the city
pertaining to the Board and Council; and
      (6)   Any other duties as may be required by the Board or Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to appoint one Chief Deputy
and three deputies pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4. The Chief Deputy and deputies of
the Clerk-Treasurer shall work under the exclusive direction of the Clerk-
Treasurer and shall be paid solely from funds appropriated for the operation of
the fiscal branch of the city government unless otherwise provided by an
ordinance duly passed and adopted by the Common Council. In the event that the
Clerk-Treasurer desires to employ additional deputies, the employment must be
approved by form ordinance of the Common Council.
(‘89 Code, § 10.03)
§ 32.03 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The head of the Department of Law is the City Attorney appointed by
the Mayor. His or her compensation is fixed by the Common Council.
   (B)   The City Attorney or corporation counsel is assigned for following
affairs of each department within the city government and the following duties:
      (1)   Management of the city’s law business and of the legal affairs of
each department within the city government.
      (2)   Prosecution of all violations of city ordinances and/or this code:
      (3)   Service as legal advisor to all city departments;
      (4)   Preparation of all cases, ordinances, contracts and other legal
papers for all departments;
      (5)   Handling of all city litigation;
      (6)   Making all title searches and examining all abstracts necessary to
opening or improving streets or other public property;
      (7)   Employing of assistants within ordinance limits; and
      (8)   Instituting all proceedings necessary to protect the rights of the
city or the public.
(‘89 Code)
§ 32.04 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby established the position of City Administrator within the
executive branch of city government. The City Administrator shall report to and
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The City Administrator shall assume such
duties and responsibilities as may be assigned by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 1-26-04)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Appointment of department heads and employees of boards and commissions
   
33.02   Powers and duties
Acting Boards, Departments and Commissions
   
33.14   Organizational structure
   
33.15   Board of Public Works and Safety
   
33.16   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.17   Department of Planning
   
33.18   Department of Law
   
33.19   Department of Engineering
   
33.20   Department of Waterworks
   
33.21   City Plan Commission
   
33.22   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
33.23   City Development Commission
   
33.24   Police Department
   
33.25   Fire Department
Cross-reference:
   Advisory Human Relations Council, see
Chapter 38
   Investigation and Reconciliation Committee, see §
130.12
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEADS AND EMPLOYEES OF BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the heads of all Departments contained in §§
33.15 through
33.25, and shall also appoint persons to serve as City Attorney and City
Engineer.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the Heads of the Department of Parks and
Recreation and the Department of Waterworks, and a City Planner who shall serve
as the Secretary to the Advisory Plan Commission. These appointments shall be
made with the approval of the Boards or Commissions operating the Departments.
   (C)   The Mayor shall serve as the head of the Department of Planning and
Economic Development, and shall appoint members to the Commissions and Boards
listed in §§
33.15 through
33.25 pursuant to this section or statutory provisions unless otherwise
provided by law.
   (D)   The Mayor shall be a member of the Board of Public Works and Safety
and shall serve as the Chairman of that Board. There shall be two additional
members of the Board, and they shall be residents of the city and appointed by
the Mayor. At the discretion of the Mayor, the members may be appointed or
elected officials of the city.
   (E)   The Mayor shall appoint persons to serve as members of the Department
of Parks and Recreation and the Department of Waterworks.
   (F)   All Department Heads and/or officials appointed by the Mayor pursuant
to this section shall serve at his or her pleasure. The Mayor may suspend or
remove from office any officer, department head or other employee appointed by
him or her or by a prior mayor. The removal or suspension shall be made by a
written notice to the affected person and a written statement to the Common
Council.
   (G)   All persons currently serving as members of the various Boards and
Commissions who have been appointed by the Mayor shall continue to serve in
their appointed positions for the remainder of their appointed term, and shall
be replaced or reappointed according to law.
   (H)   Members of the Boards and Commissions not specifically referred to in
this section shall be appointed by the Mayor unless otherwise provided by law.
   (I)   A Department Head or appointed official may appoint deputies or other
employees at his or her pleasure unless otherwise provided by statute. A
department head or appointed official may dismiss deputies and employees, but
if 30 days have passed since the department head or official was appointed, he
or she must file with the Clerk-Treasurer a written statement of the reasons
for dismissal for any employee other than a deputy or temporary or seasonal
employee. All appointments or dismissals shall be subject to approval by the
Board or Commission which operates that particular Department.
   (J)   Any Board, Commission or Department established by this chapter shall
have the ability and right to have the number of employees deemed necessary,
and to purchase and contract for materials and/or services subject to the
approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety or other governing Board or
Commission.
   (K)   The Board or Commission in authority shall make a determination as to
the number of employees and the materials and/or supplies needed so as to
perform the duties of the Board, Commission or Department subject to the
appropriation powers of the Common Council, if applicable.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All Departments, Boards and Commissions created pursuant to this chapter
shall have the powers provided under previous legislative authority, provided
that the powers do not conflict with the present statutory authority. All
departments, boards and commissions shall have additional powers and duties as
may be assigned by the Mayor and/or the City Common Council.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
ACTING BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 33.14 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the executive branch of city
government the following organizational structure of department heads and staff
positions:
      (1)   Department heads:
         (a)   Fire Chief;
         (b)   Police Chief;
         (c)   Public Works;
         (d)   Engineer Director;
         (e)   Planning Director;
         (f)   Parks Director; and
         (g)   Utility Director.
      (2)   Staff positions:
         (a)   City Attorney;
         (b)   Economic Development Director;
         (c)   Human Resources Director; and
         (d)   Information Technology Director.
   (B)   Each department head and staff position shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. Individuals serving as department heads and
in staff positions shall assume such duties and responsibilities as may be
assigned by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 1-26-04)
§ 33.15 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   There is hereby established a Board of Public Works and Safety within the
executive branch of city government. Membership on the Board of Public Works
and Safety shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-9(c). The city Clerk-Treasurer
shall serve as clerk of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02) (Am. Ord. 1-2004, passed 1-26-04)
§ 33.16 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation, which
Department shall be controlled and operated by a Park and Recreation Board
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-4. The Board shall consist of four members.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.17 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.
   There is hereby created a Department of Planning of the city, which
Department shall consist of the following Boards and Commissions:
   (A)   An Economic Development Commission composed of five members previously
established pursuant to I.C. 18-6-4.5-1 et seq., contained under I.C. 36-7-12-
1 et seq.
   (B)   An Industrial Development Commission composed of five members
established pursuant to I.C. 36-7-13-1 et seq.
   (C)   An Advisory Plan Commission composed of nine members established
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1 et seq.
   (D)   A Board of Zoning Appeals composed of five members established
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1 et seq.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.18 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   There is hereby created a Department of Law pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-12, and
the head of this Department will be the City Attorney.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.19 DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
   There is hereby created a Department of Engineering pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-
4, and the head of this Department will be the City Engineer.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.20 DEPARTMENT OF WATERWORKS.
   There is hereby created a Department of Waterworks composed of five members
pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-4-2.
(‘89 Code, § 10.02)
§ 33.21 CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The city is authorized to establish a City Plan
Commission, which Commission shall have the power to exercise jurisdiction
outside the city limits as provided by law.
(‘89 Code, § 12.01)
   (B)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of nine members. It shall be
composed of the City Engineer, a Park Board member, a Councilman, and six
citizens appointed by the Mayor, of which not more than three shall be of the
same political party. The citizen members of the City Plan Commission serve
without compensation.
(‘89 Code, § 12.02)
   (C)   Powers. The Commission has the power to establish its own rules and
regulations within the statute, to appoint a secretary and professional
consultants whom it deems necessary for the making of surveys, studies, maps,
plans, charts, ordinances or any other data that fall within the scope of the
Commission authority.
(‘89 Code, § 12.03)
   (D)   Petition filing fee and copying costs. The following are the approved
fees and costs for the planning office:
Petition filing fee
Rezoning                              $75
Annexation                            $100
Subdivision                           $75 plus $2 per lot
Planned Unit Development              $75 plus $2 per lot
Board of Zoning Appeals               $50
Certificate of Appropriateness        $20
Copying costs
Paper copy of Zoning Book             $75
Paper copy of Comprehensive Plan      $75
Electronic copy of Zoning Book        $2
Electronic copy of Comprehensive Plan $2
 
(‘89 Code, § 12.04)
§ 33.22 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Membership. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members,
of which three are appointed by the Mayor, one is appointed from the Plan
Commission by the mayor, and one is appointed by the Plan Commission. Of this
Board, not more than three shall be members of the same political party. All
members shall be residents of the city, two of the members shall be members of
the Plan Commission, and none of the members shall hold other elective or
appointive office in the city.
(‘89 Code, § 13.01)
   (B)   Duties. The function of the Board is to hear and determine appeals for
exceptions to the city zoning ordinances.
(‘89 Code, § 13.02)
   (C)   Petition filing fee. Any person filing any petition for variance or
special exception from the Zoning Ordinance shall at the time of filing pay to
the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $50. Any funds paid hereunder shall be placed in
the General Fund of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 13.03)
§ 33.23 CITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a Department of Development to be
known as the City Development Commission.
(‘89 Code, § 29.01)
   (B)   The Commission shall be governed by a board of five Commissioners to
be appointed by the Mayor as follows:
      (1)   Three of the Commissioners so appointed shall be selected by the
Mayor;
      (2)   One of the Commissioners so appointed shall be nominated by the
County Council.
      (3)   One of the Commissioners so appointed shall be nominated by the
City Common Council.
      (4)   Each of the Commissioners shall serve for a term of four years. At
the expiration of the respective terms of each of the Commissioners, their
respective successors shall be selected and nominated in the same manner as the
original appointee, each of which nominees shall be appointed by the Mayor
within ten days after receiving the nomination. In the event any person
appointed a Commissioner shall fail to qualify as hereinafter provided within
ten days after the mailing to him or her of notice of his or her appointment,
or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign, vacate the office or be
removed as hereinafter provided, a new member shall be chosen and appointed to
fill the vacancy in the same manner as provided for the member in respect to
whom the vacancy occurred, and the member so chosen and appointed shall serve
for the remainder of the vacated term. The Commissioners shall receive no
salaries but shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily
incurred in the performance of their duty.
(‘89 Code, § 29.02)
   (C)   Five members who shall be appointed to the Commission must be
residents of Center Township and at least four of them must be residents of the
city. If any Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above
categories, his or her appointment on the Board shall thereby terminate and his
or her office shall become vacant. Each Commissioner, before entering upon his
or her duties, shall take and subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to
be endorsed upon the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be
promptly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. The Commission originally appointed
shall meet within 30 days after its appointment at a time and place designated
by the Mayor for the purpose of organization, and shall meet to reorganize in
the month of February of the succeeding year. The Commission shall elect one of
its members as President, one as Vice-President, and one as Secretary, each of
which officers shall serve from the day of his or her election until the
January 31 next following his or her election and until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
(‘89 Code, § 29.03)
   (D)   The Commission is authorized to adopt any bylaws, rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings,
the carrying out of its duties and the safeguarding of the funds and property
placed in its custody. Regular or special meetings shall be held at a time as
the Commission may determine and upon the notice as it may fix, either by
resolution or in accordance with the provisions of the by-laws, rules and
regulations adopted. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum and
the concurrence of a majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
(‘89 Code, § 29.04)
   (E)   The Commission shall have all powers, privileges and duties as
provided by the Municipal Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, and as
granted by all acts of the State General Assembly heretofore or hereafter
enacted.
(‘89 Code, § 29.05)
§ 33.24 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACTIVE DUTY. The time period that a police officer is actively engaged in
the performance of the duties of a police officer. An officer who is retired on
disability pension or on leave of absence shall not be construed to be on
active duty.
      BASE PAY. The annual compensation paid to the police officer as
determined by the City Council on an annual basis. The monthly base pay shall
be the amount of the compensation divided by 12.
      POLICE OFFICER. All types of persons employed by the city with the power
of arrest, regardless of his or her rank designation or other type of
clarification created by the City Board of Public Works. This does not include
volunteer or part-time police officers.
      YEARS OF SATISFACTORY SERVICE. Years of continuous, uninterrupted active
duty as a police officer of the city, except as provided in division (C) below.
(‘89 Code, § 15.01)
   (B)   For that period of one calendar year from the date of his or her
employment as a police officer, that police officer shall be considered as a
probationary police officer. He or she shall be subject to dismissal at the
recommendation of the Chief of Police, with the approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety, for any cause whatsoever. Upon the dismissal of a
probationary police officer, the officer shall have no right of appeal nor
recourse whatsoever. His or her salary for the probationary period shall be
considered his or her base pay for purposes of this section.
(‘89 Code, § 15.02)
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the right, upon timely
application made by a police officer and for good cause, to grant a leave of
absence for a period of time as determined by the Board. A police officer shall
not lose his previously accumulated years of satisfactory service while on a
leave of absence granted by the Board. However, the time during which a police
officer is on leave of absence shall not be included in determining the total
number of years of satisfactory service.
(‘89 Code, § 15.03)
   (D)   There is hereby created a Police Pension Board of Trustees to perform
certain duties prescribed under I.C. 36-8-7-1 et seq. and 36-8-8-1 et seq.
(‘89 Code, § 10.05)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall pay $3,000 to
the heirs or estate of any active or retired police officer who has suffered
death from any cause.
(‘89 Code, § 15.04)
§ 33.25 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACTIVE DUTY. The time while a firefighter is actively engaged in the
performance of the duties of a firefighter. A firefighter who is retired,
retired on disability pension, or on leave of absence shall not be construed to
be on active duty.
      BASE PAY. The annual compensation paid to the firefighters as determined
annually by the City Council, and the monthly base pay shall be the amount of
the compensation divided by 12.
      FIREFIGHTER. All types of firefighters employed by the city, or to be
employed by the city, whether the firefighter is the Chief, Deputy Chief,
Assistant Chief, Captain or other type or classification created by the City
Council, but does not include volunteer or part-time firefighters.
      YEARS OF SATISFACTORY SERVICE. Years of continuous, uninterrupted active
duty as a fireman of the city, except as provided in division (E) below.
(‘89 Code, § 16.01)
   (B)   For a period of one calendar year from the date of his or her
employment as a firefighter, the firefighter shall be considered on probation.
In the event that the status of Second Class Firefighter, as defined in the
State Commission on Fire Fighting Standards and Education, has not been
obtained during the firefighters’s probationary period, the firefighter may be
dismissed from the Fire Department without recourse.
(‘89 Code, § 16.02)
   (C)   Upon completion of one year of satisfactory service, as defined in
division (A) above and as a firefighter, and while on active duty as defined in
division (A) above, the firefighter shall be classified as a first class
firefighter.
(‘89 Code, § 16.03)
   (D)   Firefighters holding rank superior to that of first class firefighter
shall receive additional compensation based upon their rank over and above the
base pay, and over and above that as provided by their classification based
upon years of service as defined in division (A) above.
(‘89 Code, § 16.04)
   (E)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the right, upon
application timely made by a firefighter and for good cause, to grant a leave
of absence for a period of time as determined by the Board of Public Works and
Safety. A firefighter shall not lose his previously accumulated years of
satisfactory service while on leave of absence. However, the time during which
the firefighter is on leave of absence shall not be included in determining the
total number of years of satisfactory service.
(‘89 Code, § 16.05)
   (F)   For the purpose of simplifying the determination of classification
subsequent to the expiration of the 12 month probationary period, the
employment date of a firefighter employed after March 31 and before September
30 of any given year shall be considered to be July 1 of the same year, and the
employment date of a firefighter or police officer employed after September 30
and before March 31 of the next year shall be considered to be the January 1st
which falls between those dates.
(‘89 Code, § 16.06)
   (G)   There shall be a Firefighter’s Pension Board of Trustees to perform
certain duties prescribed under I.C. 36-8-6-1 et seq. and I.C. 36-8-8-1 et seq.
(‘89 Code, § 10.05)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Employee travel reimbursement procedures
   
34.02   Job classification program
Military Leave Policy
   
34.15   Covered employees
   
34.16   Wages and benefits
   
34.17   City’s group insurance and life benefits
   
34.18   Pension benefits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 EMPLOYEE TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event that employees or officials of the city use their own
vehicle while conducting city business, the employees and officials shall be
reimbursed at a rate approved by the State Board of Accounts. In the event that
an employee or official uses a municipally owned vehicle while on city business
and is required to purchase fuel or incur related vehicular expenses, the
employee or official shall be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred.
(‘89 Code, § 24.01)
   (B)   City employees and officials will be reimbursed for actual meal
expenses incurred by the person when traveling outside of the City of
Valparaiso on city business. The maximum daily reimbursement for meal expenses
is $40 per day. The city employee or official shall present to the city Clerk-
Treasurer receipts for each meal expenditure in order to receive reimbursement.
(‘89 Code, § 24.02)
   (C)   In the event that an employee or official is required to incur
expenses for overnight accommodations while on municipal business, the employee
or official shall only stay at hotels or motels providing municipal or
governmental discounts. In the event that a spouse is traveling with the
employee or official, the city will reimburse the employee or official for the
single rate only.
(‘89 Code, § 24.04)
   (D)   Whenever possible, any expenses discussed in this section and/or
miscellaneous other expenses incurred by a city employee or official shall be
authorized in advance by the Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Mayor. The elected
officials shall also give approval to a Department Head for conferences and/
ormeetings to be attended by any employee of the city. The Mayor and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall have final approval of any and all reimbursements pursuant to
this section. Any expense incurred under this section shall be paid in the
normal manner after a proper claim and proof of payment has been submitted to
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 24.05) (Am. Ord. 14-2004, passed 4-12-04)
§ 34.02 JOB CLASSIFICATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   This section is adopted to provide the administrative branch of
government with a tool to be utilized in the fair and impartial administration
of the wage system for the employees of the city. It is not the purpose of the
section to diminish, in any way, the statutory duty of the Mayor with regard to
salaries, but merely to assist him or her in the performance of his or her
duty.
(‘89 Code, § 25.01)
   (B)   The factors and weights used in determining the classification for
each individual position considered are adopted by reference and made part of
this section the same as if set forth in full herein, and represent the job
classification program for the various employees of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 25.02)
   (C)   The City Council shall appoint a select committee which is comprised
of the Mayor or his or her designee and two Council members. The two Council
members shall be the Chairperson of the Finance Committee or his or her
designee, and the Chairperson of the Committee concerned with the department
involved in the hearing, his or her designee. This Committee shall conduct an
investigation and hold a hearing within ten days, if deemed necessary, whenever
a position is created which is not covered by the existing program. At the
conclusion of an investigation, the Committee shall make a written
recommendation to the Common Council regarding the job classification for the
position. In the event that the position being considered is not under the
supervision or a committee of the Common Council, then the remaining two
members of the committee shall select a third member for the committee from the
Council.
(‘89 Code, § 25.03)
   (D)   Any employee, department head or other officer of the city may contest
the classification given to any position which is covered by the program.
Notice of contest shall be filed in writing with the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
present the notice to the Common Council. The select committee shall conduct an
investigation and hold a hearing within 10 days, at which time the person or
persons contesting the classification or their designated representative shall
have the opportunity to be heard and present evidence regarding the
classification. At the conclusion of the hearing, the select committee shall
prepare a written finding of fact. If the finding of fact includes a
recommended change in the classification, the finding shall be forwarded to the
Common Council, within ten days following the hearing, who shall consider a
change in the classification program within 30 days.
(‘89 Code, § 25.04)
   (E)   For the purpose of payment of pensions to policemen and firemen
pursuant to the applicable laws of the state, the salary of the first class
patrolman and first class firefighter shall be deemed to be level three of the
standard rate in the group in which the position falls.
(‘89 Code, § 25.05)
MILITARY LEAVE POLICY
§ 34.15 COVERED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The terms of employment policies embodied within this subchapter apply
to all regular full-time employees of the City of Valparaiso and sworn officers
called to military tour of duty in the Armed Forces of the United States of
America, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, military duty in
the "uniformed services" as defined in the Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA), 38 USC § 4301, or the Indiana
National Guard for service related to the deployment of troops upon official
Order of the President of the United States or the Governor of the State of
Indiana, hereinafter referred to as "active duty."
   (B)   Each covered employee shall be considered as remaining in the employ
of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, in an inactive status while on active duty
related to an ordered deployment of troops. Each covered employee shall
continue in such inactive status until such time as he or she is released from
active duty in good standing, or the date of receiving written confirmation of
the covered employee being deceased and where applicable, the date on which he
or she resumes active employment with the City of Valparaiso.
   (C)   Each covered employee must return to active employment with the City
of Valparaiso within 30 days after such time as he or she is released from
active duty in good standing or from hospitalization continuing after
discharge. Upon return to employment, each covered employee, if still qualified
to perform the duties of the position he or she held immediately prior to being
called to active duty, shall be restored to such position or to a position of
the like seniority, status and pay. If any covered employee is not qualified to
perform the duties of the position he or she held immediately prior to being
called to active duty, by reason of disability sustained during his or her
service, but is qualified to perform the duties of any other position in the
employ of the city, he or she shall be offered employment, and if such covered
employee so requests, shall be employed in such other position the duties of
which the covered employee is qualified to perform as will provide him or her
like seniority, status and pay, or the nearest approximation thereof consistent
with the circumstances of his or her case.
(Ord. 17, 2003, passed 3-24-03)
§ 34.16 WAGES AND BENEFITS.
   (A)   Each covered employee shall be allowed to opt to receive compensation
at his or her current rate of pay for all unused leave days available on his or
her last day of active employment with the city before reporting for active
duty.
   (B)   Following the paid leave in division (A) above, each covered employee
shall receive a regular scheduled paycheck from the city in an amount equal to
the difference between his or her current gross city wage and his or her gross
military wage (including all entitlements) for active duty. It is the
employee's responsibility to inform the Human Resources and the Clerk-
Treasurer's office if the gross military wage is less than the employee's gross
city wage. In no event shall the total of gross military pay for active duty
and gross city wages (including any amount paid under division (A) above),
exceed in any calendar year the total gross wages that would have been earned
by the covered employee in his or her city position had he or she not been
called to active duty. Reconciliation of the amounts owed to or by the city
shall occur as needed following the employee's return to active city
employment.
   (C)   For purposes of computing the covered employee's gross city wages,
each covered employee shall receive that annual increase he or she would have
received had he or she not been called to active duty.
   (D)   Leave days will not accrue during such time the covered employee is on
active duty.
   (E)   Time on the job and seniority will accrue during such time that the
covered employee is on active duty.
(Ord. 17, 2003, passed 3-24-03)
§ 34.17 CITY’S GROUP INSURANCE AND LIFE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The covered employee shall have the choice of terminating the coverage
upon the city receiving written confirmation that the subject employee is on
active duty and is formally covered for medical insurance purposes as an
employee of the United States government, or continuing such coverage subject
to continued payment of his or her share of the premium. The covered employee
shall be responsible for seeing that proper documentation is sent to the Human
Resources Department in a reasonable period of time upon going on active duty.
   (B)   Dependents of covered employees with the city's group insurance
coverage at the time the covered employee reports to active duty may remain
covered while the covered employee is activated to active duty, subject to the
provisions set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Any life insurance provided to the covered employee by the city will
continue under the rules of the policy while the covered employee is on active
duty.
(Ord. 17, 2003, passed 3-24-03)
§ 34.18 PENSION BENEFITS.
   (A)   To the extent allowed by law, the city shall during each covered
employee's term of active duty, continue to pay all pension benefits due the
employee by virtue of his or her employment.
   (B)   The city administration shall amend any personnel policy in place
addressing leave of absence, where necessary, in order to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter. Any changes to current policy manuals shall be
presented to the Board of Public Works and Safety for approval.
(Ord. 17, 2003, passed 3-24-03)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
Sale, Conveyance, Trade or Alienation of City Property
   
35.01   Disposition of city real property by the Council
Payment of Claims
   
35.15   Claim payments in advance of Board allowance
   
35.16   Fully itemized claim required
   
35.17   Allowance of claim
   
35.18   Miscellaneous claims
Municipal Purchasing
   
35.30   Purchasing Agency
   
35.31   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records; receipt of
offers
   
35.32   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
35.33   Receipt of proposals for certain types of supplies; purchase of
services
   
35.34   Modification and termination of contracts
   
35.35   Small business set-aside purchases
   
35.36   State business preference
   
35.37   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
Emergency Warning System
   
35.50   Emergency warning system
Indemnification and Defense
   
35.60   Protection of city personnel
   
35.61   Scope of employment, authority and appointment
   
35.62   Common Council approval necessary
   
35.63   Certain acts not indemnified
   
35.64   Employees covered
   
35.65   Impact of insurance
Administrative Fees
   
35.75   Administrative fees established
Bidding Practices
   
35.85   Bid requirements
   
35.86   Post-bid submissions from subcontractors
   
35.87   Validity of pre-qualification classification
   
35.88   Incomplete submission by bidders
   
35.89   Responsive and responsible bidder determination
   
35.90   Certified payroll
   
35.91   Public records
   
35.92   Penalties for false, deceptive or fraudulent statements/information
   
35.93   Conflicting ordinances/bid documents
   
35.94   Waiver of requirements
   
35.95   Method of submission and retention of documentation
Capitalization and Inventory Policy
   
35.100   Definitions and provisions
   
35.101   Capitalization threshold and inventory
   
35.102   Assets below the capitalization threshold
SALE, CONVEYANCE, TRADE OR ALIENATION OF CITY PROPERTY
§ 35.01 DISPOSITION OF CITY REAL PROPERTY BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Common Council shall authorize by individual resolution or
ordinance acted upon by the Council at a regular meeting any person, officer,
board, department or commission hereinafter designated as seller, duly
authorized and empowered by law or delegated and entrusted with authority to
sell, convey, trade or alienate, without an appraisement or public notice, any
real property belonging to the city whenever the total amount or any sale,
conveyance, trade or alienation does not exceed $4,000.
   (B)   In all cases of sale, conveyance, trade or alienation of real property
where the total amount involved exceeds the sum of $4,000 the seller shall
first obtain the appointment of three disinterested freeholders of the city to
appraise the property by the Mayor or, in his or her absence or inability, by
the Common Council. No sale, conveyance, trade or alienation of any property
shall be made for a sum less than the appraisement, and only by a two-thirds
vote of the Common Council.
   (C)   Furthermore, all sales, conveyances, trades or alienations of real
property by any government unit under the provisions of divisions (A) and (B)
above shall be a unit basis and the sales, conveyances, trades or alienation of
property of a value in excess of $4,000 on the open market under two or more
contracts is prohibited. However, the real property of whatever value may be
sold, conveyed, traded or transferred to the United States government, the
state, or any agency, division or instrumentality thereof, unless prohibited by
a two-thirds vote of the Common Council. All sales, conveyances, trades or
alienations in excess of $4,000 shall be by the Mayor, in the name of the city,
attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer and with the seal of the city affixed
thereon.
(‘89 Code, § 115.01)
PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
§ 35.15 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer, as the city’s fiscal officer, should be and is
hereby authorized and empowered to pay claims in advance of approval by the
Board of Works and Public Safety for the following kind of expenses:
   (A)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivision;
   (B)   License or permit fees;
   (C)   Insurance premiums;
   (D)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
   (E)   General grant programs where advanced funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
   (F)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
   (G)   Maintenance or service agreements;
   (H)   Leases or rental agreements;
   (I)   Bond or coupon payments;
   (J)   Payroll;
   (K)   State, federal or county taxes;
   (L)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
   (M)   Expenses described in an ordinance; and
   (N)   Any claim that may incur a late fee.
(‘89 Code, § 116.01) (Am. Ord. 13, 2012, passed 4-23-12)
§ 35.16 FULLY ITEMIZED CLAIM REQUIRED.
   Each payment of a claim under this chapter must be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 116.02) (Am. Ord. 13, 2012, passed 4-23-12)
§ 35.17 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIM.
   The Board of Works and Public Safety shall review and allow the claim at its
next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expenditure.
(‘89 Code, § 116.03) (Am. Ord. 13, 2012, passed 4-23-12)
§ 35.18 MISCELLANEOUS CLAIMS.
   Other claims against the city may be issued only if the statutory provisions
of I.C. 36-4-8-7 are followed.
(‘89 Code, § 116.04)
MUNICIPAL PURCHASING
§ 35.30 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby established as the
Purchasing Agency for the city.
(‘89 Code, § 117.1.1)
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
(‘89 Code, § 117.1.2)
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 117.1.3)
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency may designate, in writing, any employee of the
city as a Purchasing Agent.
(‘89 Code, § 117.1.4)
§ 35.31 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS; RECEIPT OF
OFFERS.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent shall retain all offers received in a secure
location prior to the date and time at which offers will be opened in order to
prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of the offers.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.1)
   (B)   After offers have been opened, the purchasing agent shall be
responsible for maintaining the offers in a manner so as to permit evaluation
of the offers by the persons responsible for evaluating the offers.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.2)
   (C)   Bids submitted in response to an invitation for bids must be available
for public inspection and copying after the time of the bid opening.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.3)
   (D)   The Purchasing Agent shall prepare a register of proposals for each
request for proposals issued, which shall contain information concerning the
proposals available for public inspection and copying. Proposals may not be
disclosed.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.4)
   (E)   The Purchasing Agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final
offers may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.5)
   (F)   When the Board of Public Works and Safety makes a written
determination that its in the city’s best interests, offers may be opened after
the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
(‘89 Code, § 117.2.5)
§ 35.32 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent may not require evidence of financial
responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is less than $25,000.
(‘89 Code, § 117.3.1)
   (B)   For purchases between $25,000 and $100,000, the solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
(‘89 Code, § 117.3.2)
   (C)   For purchases over $100,000, the solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility, and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
(‘89 Code, § 117.3.3)
   (D)   The Purchasing Agent may determine that no evidence of financial
responsibility shall be required for a small business set-aside purchase.
(‘89 Code, § 117.3.4)
§ 35.33 RECEIPT OF PROPOSALS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF SUPPLIES; PURCHASE OF
SERVICES.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent may determine that it is not practical nor
advantageous to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive
bidding.
(‘89 Code, § 117.4.1)
   (B)   Under these circumstances the Board of Public Works and Safety may
receive proposals for purchases of supplies.
(‘89 Code, § 117.4.2)
   (C)   The Purchasing Agent shall determine the types of supplies to be
purchased by receiving proposals and shall designate the supplies in writing by
resolution of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 117.4.3)
   (D)   The city determines that each city agency and department may purchase
services except for the services of attorneys in whatever manner the purchaser
determines to be reasonable. Only the head of the Department of Law may
purchase the services of attorneys.
(‘89 Code, § 117.4.4)
   (E)   The Purchasing Agency may not require any city agency, department or
office to purchase services in any particular manner.
(‘89 Code, § 117.4.5)
§ 35.34 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The purchasing agent may include provisions to permit price
adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for price
adjustments may be included:
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as
specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in another manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
(‘89 Code, § 117.5.1)
   (B)   The purchasing agent may include provisions in a purchase contract
concerning adjustments for time of performance under the contract.
(‘89 Code, § 117.5.2)
   (C)   The purchasing agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with the unilateral right of the city to order changes in the work
within the scope of the contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays
in time of performance.
(‘89 Code, § 117.5.3)
   (D)   The purchasing agent may include in a purchase contract provisions
dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of work in a contract
and the actual quantity delivered.
(‘89 Code, § 117.5.4)
§ 35.35 SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE PURCHASES.
   (A)   The city hereby determines to establish criteria for determining
qualifications as a small business and to identify specific supplies for small
business set-aside purchases.
(‘89 Code, § 117.6)
   (B)   A business qualifies as a small business if it qualifies as a small
business under standards established by the State Department of Commerce.
(‘89 Code, § 117.6.1)
   (C)   The following businesses are not small businesses:
      (1)   A wholesale business, if its average annual sales for its most
recently completed fiscal year exceeds $4 million;
      (2)   A construction business, if its average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal years exceeds $4 million;
      (3)   A retail business or business selling services, if its annual sales
and receipts exceed $500,000; and
      (4)   A manufacturing business, if it employs more than 100 persons.
(‘89 Code, § 117.6.2)
   (D)   The Purchasing Agent shall determine the specifics of supplies
eligible for small business set- aside and shall do so by resolution.
(‘89 Code, § 117.6.3)
§ 35.36 STATE BUSINESS PREFERENCE.
   (A)   An offeror is a state business if it has its principal place of
business operations in the state; is incorporated in the state; or its primary
owners are residents of the state. The Purchasing Agent may
develop criteria for establishing qualifications for state businesses and if
the Purchasing Agent does so it shall be done by resolution.
(‘89 Code, § 117.7.1)
   (B)   The Purchasing Agent may make the determination that certain states
have business preferences that are unfavorable to the state, and if this
determination is made it shall be made in writing by resolution.
(‘89 Code, § 117.7.2)
   (C)   The Purchasing Agent shall develop rules and regulations for
calculating state business preferences pursuant to this subchapter, and shall
do so by resolution.
(‘89 Code, § 117.7.3)
§ 35.37 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all city
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
(‘89 Code, § 117.8)
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
(‘89 Code, § 117.8.1)
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceed by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
(‘89 Code, § 117.8.2)
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
(‘89 Code, § 117.8.3)
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(‘89 Code, § 117.8.4)
EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEM
§ 35.50 EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby directed to create
and implement an emergency warning system.
(‘89 Code, § 77.01)
   (B)   The Board is hereby authorized to assign extra duties to any personnel
of the city that may be necessary to carry out the intent of this section and
to take whatever action the Board may deem necessary in this regard.
(‘89 Code, § 77.02)
   (C)   The system shall be reduced to writing upon its adoption by the Board
and shall have the same force and effect as aby ordinance of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 77.03)
   (D)   The Board is further directed to publicize the full contents of the
system in any manner they deem sufficient to notify the citizens with regard to
the method of implementation of the system.
(‘89 Code, § 77.04)
INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE
§ 35.60 PROTECTION OF CITY PERSONNEL.
   The city shall indemnify and defend its respective officials, officers,
appointees, employees, council members, duly authorized agents and building
corporation members without expense to those persons, with respect to any
action filed against them in their official or individual capacities, or both,
if the action complained of was done within the scope and arising out of the
performance of their official duties or responsibilities.
Statutory reference:
   City’s role in providing a defense for city employees, see I.C. 34-13-
2 through 34-13-4.
§ 35.61 SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT, AUTHORITY AND APPOINTMENT.
   The indemnification under this subchapter shall encompass any judgment
recovered against any officer, official, appointee, employee, duly authorized
agent, council member or building corporation member in any court of law having
jurisdiction thereof, arising out of any civil action brought to recover
damages to persons or property resulting from alleged acts of negligence,
omission or other wrongful acts of the persons acting within the scope of his
or her employment, authority or appointment.
§ 35.62 COMMON COUNCIL APPROVAL NECESSARY.
   The city reserves the right, by and through its Common Council, to approve
any compensation to be paid to any attorney hired by any person, board,
commission or other entity covered under this subchapter. The Common Council
shall not unreasonably withhold approval of any qualified attorney obtained by
any employee to defend that employee in litigation filed against him or her;
however, the Common Council may put an hourly rate maximum on the hourly rate
for which the city shall indemnify the employee pursuant to this provision.
§ 35.63 CERTAIN ACTS NOT INDEMNIFIED.
   The obligation to indemnify shall not extend to acts of malice, acts of a
willful or wanton nature, criminal acts, acts calculated to accrue to the
personal benefit of an individual officer, appointee, building corporation
member, employee, council member or other duly authorized agent, or acts which
are clearly beyond the duties and/or scope of authority of the person or
persons. Exoneration by a court of law shall be conclusive as to the absence of
malice, criminality and other similar conditions. In the absence of a judicial
determination, a determination as to the presence of these conditions shall be
made by the Board of Public Works and Safety and be presented to the Common
Council in the form of a written finding. The finding of the Board of Public
Works and Safety shall prevail unless the Council, within 30 days of the
receipt thereof, passes a resolution rejecting the finding.
§ 35.64 EMPLOYEES COVERED.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the terms officers, appointees, employees,
officials, building corporation members, council members, and other duly
authorized agents shall include: all department heads and their appointees and
employees; members of any building corporations; members of any boards and
commissions of the city; all elected or appointed officials of the city; and
all other employees of the city.
§ 35.65 IMPACT OF INSURANCE.
   Nothing in this division shall be construed to obligate any insurance
company with which the city has a policy to provide more or less coverage than
that provided for by the insurance policy.
ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
§ 35.75 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following administrative fees are established and shall be
assessed:
Fee assessed Reason for assessment
$10          Each reproduction/copy of an accident report
$10          Processing a criminal history check (excluding requests by
             military personnel)
$10          Each request to have fingerprints taken
$10          Each photograph requested
$150         Each audio recording reproduced on compact disk (CD)
$150         Each video recording reproduced on either VHS or 8 mm tapes
             Each reproduction/copy of an accident reconstruction report.
             Requests for accident reconstruction reports shall be made in
$350         writing, with the administrative fee accompanying the request.
             Police agencies requesting copies of accident reconstruction
             reports, exclusively for use by their own agency, shall be exempt
             from the administrative fee.
$150         Law enforcement recording (this fee shall be deposited in the Law
             Enforcement Recording Fund)
$10          Vehicle Identification (VIN) Checks
 
   (B)   The administrative fees created by this section shall be forwarded to
the city Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of collection.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the administrative fees collected as
a result of this section into the Motor Vehicle Equipment Fund (Fund 281) for
appropriation and expenditure pursuant to established guidelines.
(Ord. 22-2004, passed 6-28-04; Am. Ord. 40-2005, passed 8-22-05; Am. Ord. 27-
2006, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 30, 2009, passed 10-12-09; Am. Ord. 11-2018,
passed 5-14-18)
BIDDING PRACTICES
§ 35.85 BID REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Bidders submitting bids on any city project of $150,000 or more
must submit, with its bid to the city, a statement made under oath and subject
to perjury laws, on a form designated by the city including the following:
         (a)   A copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's on-
line records for the bidder dated within 60 days of the submission of said
document showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana
Secretary of State's Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate of
good standing. If the bidder is an individual, sole proprietor or partnership,
this subsection shall not apply;
         (b)   A list identifying all former business names;
         (c)   Any pending actions or determinations by a court or governmental
agency for violations of federal, state, or local laws including, but not
limited to violations of contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws,
environmental laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), or federal
Davis-Bacon and related Acts within the last five years;
         (d)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources.
This statement shall include whether the bidder has sufficient employees on
staff to complete the work it is bidding. If not, bidder shall outline how it
intends to meet the staffing needs of the work;
         (e)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that:
            1.   Covers all employees of the bidder who will perform work on
the public work project; and
            2.   Meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in I.C. 4-13-18-
5 or I.C. 4-13-18-6;
         (f)   The name and description of the management experience of each of
the bidder's project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign
to work on the project;
         (g)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law for
any trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award; and
disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five years of
any professional or trade license held by the bidder, or of any director,
office or manager employed by the bidder;
         (h)   Evidence that the bidder is utilizing a surety company which is
on the United States Department of Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties;
         (i)   A written statement of any federal, state or local tax liens or
tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state or local taxing body in the last
five years;
         (j)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the public
work project on behalf of the bidder will be properly classified as either:
            1.   An employee; or
            2.   An independent contractor, under all applicable state and
federal laws and local ordinances;
         (k)   A list of projects of similar size and scope of work that the
bidder has performed in the State of Indiana within three years prior to the
date on which the bid is due. If the bidder has engaged in more than ten
projects of similar size and scope of work within the last three years, bidder
need only list the ten most recent; and
         (l)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training
programs, applicable to the work to be performed on the project, which are
approved by and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office
of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence
includes a copy of all applicable apprenticeship certificates or standards for
these training programs.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to request supplemental information
from the bidder, additional verification of any of the information provided by
the bidder, and may also contact any of bidder's current and prior customers.
   (B)   It has been the practice of the Board of Public Works and Safety
("Board of Public Works") when receiving bids for city projects, to take bids
it receives under advisement and to request city staff to confirm a bid's
compliance with the provisions of the bid document. At a subsequent Board of
Public Works' meeting, city staff recommend a bid to the Board of Public Works
to be considered. As part of city staff's review and due diligence, city staff
shall confirm that the recommended bidder has furnished the information
required above. Should the Board of Works reject the recommendation of city
staff and prefer another bidder, city staff shall confirm that such bidder has
furnished the information required above.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.86 POST-BID SUBMISSIONS FROM SUBCONTRACTORS.
   Within five day after a bid is awarded, the successful bidder shall provide
a written list that discloses the name, address, and type of work for each
subcontractor from whom the bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on
any part of the public work project, including individuals performing work as
independent bidders. Although bidder's subcontractors shall not be required to
initially furnish the information referenced above, upon written request by the
city, the successful bidder shall obtain from any designated subcontractor any
information identified in §
35.85. Such shall be provided to the city within five business days of being
requested.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.87 VALIDITY OF PRE-QUALIFICATION CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon determination by the city that a bidder's submission is complete,
the bidder may be pre-qualified for future city public works projects. A
bidder's classification as "qualified" shall exempt the bidder from the
submission requirements contained in §
35.85 for the remainder of the calendar year in which the determination was
made. Bidders who are pre-qualified must submit a certification that there have
been no material changes in the information provided in §
35.85. To the extent there have been material changes, the bidder must
supplement their application. Failure to timely supplement the information
provided shall constitute grounds to reject a bidder's bid and/or determine the
bidder to be in default.
   (B)   The pre-qualification designation is solely within the discretion of
the city and the city specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the
designation for any stated written reason(s).
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.88 INCOMPLETE SUBMISSIONS BY BIDDERS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the potential bidder to comply with all
submission requirements applicable to the bidder in §
35.85. Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or untimely by the city may
result in the automatic disqualification of the bid; however, nothing contained
herein shall prevent the city from requesting supplemental information from the
bidder.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.89 RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DETERMINATION.
   The city, through the Board of Works, after review of complete and timely
submissions, shall, in its sole discretion, after taking into account all
information in the submission requirements and any additional information it
deems relevant, determine whether a bidder is responsive and responsible. The
city specifically reserves the right to utilize all information provided in the
bidder's submission or any information obtained by the city through its own
independent verification of the information provided by the bidder.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.90 CERTIFIED PAYROLL.
   (A)   For projects that qualify under this subchapter, the successful bidder
shall submit a certified payroll report utilizing the federal form now known as
a WH-347 which must be prepared on a weekly basis and submitted to the city
with its request for payment. These certified payroll reports shall identify
the job title and craft of each employee on the project, e.g. journeyman
electrician or apprentice electrician. In the event any bidder uses independent
contractors to perform work on the project, such individual must be identified
on the WH-347 form with the same information as is required for employees. The
city may, but is under no obligation, to verify information provided by bidder.
This may include interviewing employees/independent contractors and others
involved in the payment of wages.
   (B)   Failure of the bidder and/or bidder's employees/independent
contractors to fully cooperate with the city and/or the determination by the
city of material errors in the bidder's documentation shall result in the
bidder being held in default.
   (C)   The city may withhold payment due for work performed by a bidder if
the bidder fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time
as such certified payroll reports are submitted. The city may also withhold
payment due for work performed by a subcontractor if the subcontractor fails to
timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time as such certified
payroll reports are submitted.
   (D)   Although bidder's subcontractors shall not be required to initially
furnish certified payroll reports, upon written request by the city, the
successful bidder shall obtain from any designated subcontractor and provide to
the city certified payroll reports. Such shall be provided to the city within
five business days of being requested.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.91 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All information submitted by a bidder pursuant to this subchapter, including
certified payrolls, are public records subject to review pursuant to the
Indiana Access to Public Records law.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.92 PENALTIES FOR FALSE, DECEPTIVE OR FRAUDULENT STATEMENTS/ INFORMATION.
   (A)   Any bidder that willfully makes, or willfully causes to be made, a
false, deceptive or fraudulent statement, or willfully submits false, deceptive
or fraudulent information in connection with any submission made to the city
may be disqualified from bidding on all city projects for a period of up to
three years. Notwithstanding the proceeding, a Bidder that is found to have
engaged in a pattern of submitting false, deceptive, and/or misleading
information to the city, whether willful/intentional or not, shall be subject
to the same disqualification.
   (B)   For projects that fall under the requirements of §
35.90, the city may engage in an audit and/or verification process of the
information provided. To the extent that material errors are identified, the
city may do the following:
      (1)   Require the bidder to reimburse the city the actual cost of the
audit;
      (2)   Assess a penalty of up to $1,000 if it is determined that each
material error constitutes a separate violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.93 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES/BID DOCUMENTS.
   Any ordinance or provision of any ordinance in conflict with the provisions
of this subchapter is hereby repealed only to the extent of such conflict.
Nothing in this subchapter shall relieve bidder of any obligation under any bid
documents and/or obligations under federal, state and local law, as applicable.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.94 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   To the extent that the funding source for a specific project limits or
precludes the application of this subchapter (or specific parts of this
subchapter), such provisions shall be waived.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
§ 35.95 METHOD OF SUBMISSION AND RETENTION OF DOCUMENTATION.
   The city may specify in any bid documents the manner in which information is
to be provided to the city. Such method may include electronic submission. It
shall be the sole responsibility of the bidder to insure that any
electronically submitted material is accessible and readable. The city shall
not be responsible for any submitted material that cannot be accessed.
Documents received under this subchapter shall be held and retained by the City
Department overseeing the project.
(Ord. 6, 2016, passed 6-13-16)
CAPITALIZATION AND INVENTORY POLICY
§ 35.100 DEFINITIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSET. Land, improvements to land, easements, buildings, building
improvements, vehicles, machinery, equipment, works of art and historical
treasures, and all other tangible assets that are used in operations and have
initial useful lives extending beyond a single reporting period.
   INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET. Long-lived capital assets that normally are stationary
in nature and normally can be preserved for a significantly greater number of
years than most capital assets. Examples include roads, bridges, tunnels,
drainage systems, water and sewer systems, dams and lighting systems.
(Ord. 11, 2001, passed 4-23-01; Am. Ord. 7, 2021, passed 4-26-21)
§ 35.101 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLD AND INVENTORY.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes, an
item must be at or above the capitalization threshold and have a unit
historical cost of $25,000 or more. With regard to improvements to buildings
and improvements to infrastructure, the expenditure must be at a historical
cost of $25,000 or more; however, repairs and most renovations will be expensed
in the current year. With regard to land, including rights of way, all land
shall be capitalized at the time of acquisition. If donated, it shall be
recorded at its acquisition value. All vehicles, regardless of historical cost
or acquisition value, will be capitalized.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer will ensure that accounting for capital
assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both
initially and periodically in subsequent years. The Clerk- Treasurer will
further ensure that the capital asset report will be updated annually to
reflect additions, retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual
capital asset balance.
(Ord. 11, 2001, passed 4-23-01; Am. Ord. 7, 2021, passed 4-26-21)
§ 35.102 ASSETS BELOW THE CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The Council also wishes to express that the day-to-day stewardship of
property (above and in selected instances below the capitalization threshold of
$25,000) is the expressed responsibility of the head of the operating
department utilizing the property.
   (B)   And, for maintenance of the capital asset accounting report, the
various heads of the operating departments have the responsibility to report
additions, retirements, and transfers in detail to the Clerk-Treasurer. Detail
shall include such data elements as asset description, location, make, model,
serial number, date of acquisition, cost, trade-in, or disposal price received,
and any other information that assists control or is deemed relevant.
   (C)   Further, these assets below the capitalization threshold, but
considered sensitive may include, but not limited to, weapons, radios,
computers, printers, fax machines, chain saws, small motor equipment, and power
tools. These minor but sensitive items shall be inventoried and controlled at
the department level by the head of the operating department. These departments
would include Police, Fire, IT, and Public Works. Stated inventory shall be
conducted annually. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall reserve the right to request
copies of the inventory and/or updated inventory of controllable items and to
periodically review the information and adherence to the policy.
(Ord. 11, 2001, passed 4-23-01; Am. Ord. 7, 2021, passed 4-26-21)
CHAPTER 36: ETHICS POLICIES
Section
Ethical Standards
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Appointments, employment and nepotism
   
36.04   Use of public property
   
36.05   Conflicts of interest and contracting with the city
   
36.06   Statement for disclosure of economic interest
Ethics Commission
   
36.20   Ethics Commission established
   
36.21   Authority and administration
   
36.22   Ethics Officer
ETHICAL STANDARDS
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   The title of this chapter shall be the "Ethics Ordinance."
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in this section
shall have the following meanings:
   APPOINTED PERSON.  
      (1)   A person holding one of the following public positions:
         (a)   Executive branch employee, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the Common Council;
         (b)   Any other person appointed by the Mayor, except persons employed
solely in maintenance, clerical, secretarial or similar positions;
         (c)   Any person appointed by the Common Council, except persons
employed solely in maintenance, clerical, secretarial, or similar positions.
      (2)   An individual or person serving on or for an advisory body shall
not be considered an appointed person under this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Indiana.
   COMPENSATION. Any payment received or to be received whether the
compensation is in the form of a fee, salary, retainer, forbearance,
forgiveness, or other form of valuable recompense.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual's employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body, or fiscal body of a unit,
as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or
personnel policies of the unit.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the city;
      (2)   A member of the legislative body of the city; or
      (3)   A member of the fiscal body of the city.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by a unit on a full-time, part-time,
temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the unit.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual, other than a public official, receiving
compensation for services performed for the city except individuals who perform
services as independent contractors.
   ETHICS. The standards of conduct that indicate how one should behave and
act. The standards are derived from the community's values, norms, and
principles. This chapter provides guidance for ethical conduct, but it is not
intended to set forth all ethical or unethical behavior or actions.
   ETHICS COMMISSION. The city Ethics Commission advisory body.
   ETHICS OFFICER. The individual appointed as Ethics Officer with the duties
and responsibilities as set forth in §
36.22.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that would be paid by a willing buyer to a
willing seller in a good faith transaction in which neither party is compelled
to enter.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Includes a spouse, parent, child, stepchild, adopted child,
sibling, grandparent, grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, or
daughter-in-law.
   GIFT. That which is accepted by a donee or by another on the donee's behalf,
or that which is paid or given to another for or on behalf of a donee,
directly, indirectly, or in trust for his or her benefit or by any other means,
for which equal or greater consideration is not given. Among other things, a
GIFT may be real property; the use of property; tangible or intangible personal
property; the use of tangible or intangible personal property; a preferential
rate or terms on a debt, loan, goods, or services (which rate is below the
customary rate and is not either a government rate available to all other
similar situated government employees or public officials or a rate which is
available to similarly situated members of the public by virtue of occupation,
affiliation, age, religion, sex, or national origin); forgiveness of
indebtedness; lodging or parking, food or beverage; membership dues; tickets to
events, performance or facilities; services provided by persons pursuant to a
professional license or certificate; other personal services for which a fee is
normally charged by the person providing the services; any other similar
service or thing having an attributable value not already provided for in this
section. GIFT does not include:
      (1)   Salary, benefits, services, fees, commissions, gifts or expenses
associated primarily with the donee's employment or business or provided to the
donee by the city, to the extent that such gift is not inconsistent with
applicable Indiana statutes;
      (2)   An award, plaque, certificate, or similar personalized item given
in recognition of the donee's public, civic, charitable, or professional
service;
      (3)   An honorary membership in a service or fraternal organization
presented merely as a courtesy by such organization;
      (4)   The use of a public facility or public property, made available by
a governmental agency, for a public purpose;
      (5)   An honorarium;
      (6)   An expense related to an honorarium event paid to a person or a
person's spouse or guest;
      (7)   Transportation provided to a public official or employee by an
agency in relation to officially approved governmental business.
      (8)   Gifts solicited or accepted from a relative.
   HONORARIUM. A payment of money or anything of value, directly or indirectly,
to a public official or employee, or to any other person on his or her behalf,
as consideration for a speech, address, oration or other oral presentation; or
a writing other than a book, which has been or is intended to be published.
HONORARIUM does not include:
      (1)   The payment for services related to employment held outside the
public official's public position, which resulted in the person becoming a
public official;
      (2)   Any ordinary payment or salary received in consideration for
services related to the public official's or employee's public duties; or
      (3)   The payment or provision of actual and reasonable transportation,
lodging, and food and beverage expenses related to the honorarium event,
including any event or meeting registration fee, for a public official or
employee and spouse or guest.
   MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief or a firefighter appointed to
the department.
   MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Chief or a police officer
appointed to the department.
   NEPOTISM. Favoritism granted to relatives or friends regardless of merit.
   PERSON.  Individuals or firms, associations, joint ventures, partnerships,
estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries, corporations,
limited liability companies, and all other groups or combinations.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected official or department head. An individual or
person serving on or for an advisory body shall not be considered a public
official under this chapter.
   RELATIVE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Spouse;
      (2)   A parent or stepparent;
      (3)   A child or stepchild. An adopted child of an individual is treated
as a natural child of the individual;
      (4)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister. Brother and sister
includes a brother or sister by half blood;
      (5)   A niece or nephew;
      (6)   An aunt or uncle;
      (7)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06; Am. Ord. 18-2011, passed 6-13-11; Am. Ord. 16,
2012, passed 6-25-12)
§ 36.03 APPOINTMENTS, EMPLOYMENT AND NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Divisions (B) through (E) below shall continue to apply to all
individuals employed by the city on or before July 1, 2012, unless the
individual has a break in employment with the city. The following are not
considered a break in employment with the city:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the city is terminated following
by immediate reemployment by the city, without loss of payroll time.
   (B)   No family member of a public official may be employed in the same
department of the public official if that public official has direct and/or
immediate supervisory responsibility for hiring, firing, promotion, or other
disciplinary actions with regard to the employee unless the department has
policies, procedures and/or collective bargaining agreements in place which
provide for the recusal of the public official in matters related to hiring,
firing, promotion or other disciplinary actions with regard to the employee so
as to avoid nepotism.
   (C)   Family members of public officials who are attending secondary or
post-secondary school on a full-time basis may be employed for summer vacation
or other vacation employment with the city so long as the employment is not
under the direct and/or immediate supervision of the public official and
further provided that the potential employees shall be considered, based upon
his or her qualifications, along with any other applicants for a position or
opening.
   (D)   No public official shall appoint a person to any position when the
public official is a principal or officer of an organization where the person
is also an employee, shareholder, officer, or director of the same
organization. This prohibition shall not apply to any not-for-profit
organizations or similar entities where neither the public official nor the
person being considered for appointment receives any remuneration from the not-
for-profit organization.
   (E)   To the extent there are family members of a public official currently
employed by the city and this employment may be in conflict with the provisions
of this section, their employment (in their current positions) shall be
grandfathered and excluded from the limitations and prohibitions contained in
this section.
   (F)   Divisions (G) through (L) shall apply beginning on July 1, 2012, and
shall apply to all individuals beginning their employment with the city after
July 1, 2012, and all individuals employed with the city on or before to July
1, 2012, that have experienced a break in employment with the city as described
above subsequent to July 1, 2012.
   (G)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the city in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
   (H)   A precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are
imposed by I.C. 3 or a volunteer firefighter are not considered employment by
the city.
   (I)   If an individual is employed by the city on the date the individual’s
relative begins serving a term of elected office of the city and is not
otherwise exempt from the application of divisions (G) through (L), an
individual may remain employed by the city and maintain the individual's
position or rank even if the individual's employment would violate division (G)
above.
   (J)   An individual described in division (H) may not be promoted to a
position or be promoted to a position that is not within the merit ranks, in
the case of an individual who is a member of a merit police department or merit
fire department if the new position would violate division (G).
   (K)   These requirements do not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the city that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date the
individual's relative begins serving a term of an elected office of the city.
   (L)   Each elected officer of the city shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties of perjury, that the officer has not violated this
chapter. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive of the unit
no later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06; Am. Ord. 18-2011, passed 6-13-11; Am. Ord. 16,
2012, passed 6-25-12)
§ 36.04 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No public official or employee shall use the funds or property of the
city for a purpose which is, or would reasonably appear to be, for the private
benefit of such public official unless the property is available to the general
public on equal terms or the use is in accordance with municipal policies or
ordinances.
   (B)   No public official or employee shall allow the use of equipment,
supplies, or labor of the city to perform services on any non-public property
unless an emergency exists or specific authorization is given by the
appropriate department head and approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
§ 36.05 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY.
   (A)   It shall be a conflict of interest and violation of this chapter for a
public official or employee to participate in the procurement of any contract,
or purchase by the city if the contract or purchase benefits financially the
public official or employee, his or her family member, or other entity in which
he or she has a financial interest.
   (B)   It shall be a conflict of interest and violation of this chapter for a
public official:
      (1)   To participate in any vote or participate in any discussion in his
or her public capacity on any matter if the matter has an economic benefit to
the public official, his or her family member, or anything in which he or she
has a financial interest. In addition to recusal, a public official shall
disclose any potential relationship to the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer within
five days of obtaining the knowledge unless the relationship has been
previously disclosed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall retain on file all such
disclosures. In the event that the public official desires to abstain from
voting on a particular matter, the public official shall announce his or her
intention to abstain before the vote is taken and shall also provide a reason
for the abstention. In the event that the abstention from voting would result
in a lack of quorum for the board or commission to act, then the affected
public official may vote after full disclosure.
      (2)   To pressure, coerce, force, or require any other public official to
engage in any conduct that would result in economic benefit to either public
official.
      (3)   To assist any person in any transaction with the city when this
assistance is or would reasonably appear to be improperly enhanced by the
position of the public official of the city. Public officials may provide this
assistance if it is provided in the course of their official duties.
      (4)   To disclose or use any information obtained as a public official
for his or her private gain, for the gain of another public official or for any
other person unless and until the information is available to the public.
      (5)   To solicit or receive a gift or loan when it has been or would
reasonably appear to have been solicited, received or given with the intent to
give or obtain special consideration or influence as to any action by the
public official in his or her official capacity.
      (6)   To receive a gift or honorarium in excess of $200 in any calendar
year from any individual or other entity doing business with the city; however,
the public official may receive the gift or honorarium and donate the gift or
honorarium to a not-for-profit agency or to the city for public purpose.
   (C)   Beginning on July l, 2012, the following requirements shall also apply
regarding contracting with the city.
      (1)   The city may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official:
         (c)   Only if the requirements of this section are satisfied and the
elected official does not violate state law.
      (2)   The city may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in section (C)(1) above if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the city a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the city;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the City Council and accepted to the City
Council in a public meeting of the city prior to final action on the contract
or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The state Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the city
takes final action on the contract or purchase;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the city:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The City satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of state law, if applicable.
      (4)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the city
begins.
      (5)   Each elected officer of the city shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this chapter. An officer shall submit the certification to the Mayor not later
than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06; Am. Ord. 16, 2012, passed 6-25-12)
§ 36.06 STATEMENT FOR DISCLOSURE OF ECONOMIC INTEREST.
   (A)   All elected officials of the city and all candidates for elective
office in the city shall meet all requirements regarding disclosure of economic
interests including but not limited to filing of disclosure forms in the same
format as required by state election laws. Copies of all forms shall be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city.
   (B)   In addition to the above requirement, all public officials shall be
required to file an annual statement disclosing the name of any outside
business or occupation outside his or her duties with the city together with
the business address and phone number; any financial interest in a business
entity along with an explanation and extent of his or her relationship to said
entity; any financial interest of a family member or business associate which
would affect his or her relationship with the city; the amount of gifts or
honoraria exceeding $200 received by the public official or his or her family
member from an outside contractor. For purposes of this provision, outside
contractor shall mean any person who has a contract, purchase or other
commercial venture pending with the city or has engaged in any contract,
purchase or other commercial venture with the city within the past 36 months.
Elected officials are understood to have all departments and divisions of the
city within their segment of responsibility. In the event that the public
official has no outside business or occupation or financial interest, that
would require the filing a statement of disclosure to this section, then no
filing will be required.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 36.20 ETHICS COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Ethics Commission has jurisdiction over current or former public
officials, current or former employees, and current or former appointed persons
for acts or omissions during their employment, elected term, or appointment.
The Ethics Commission shall consist of five residents of the city. Appointments
to the Ethics Commission shall be made as follows:
      (1)   The President of Valparaiso University shall appoint one member for
an initial term of one year.
      (2)   The President of Porter Hospital shall appoint one initial member
for a term of two years.
      (3)   The Board of Directors of the Greater Valparaiso Chamber of
Commerce shall appoint an initial member for a term of one year.
      (4)   The Chief Executive Officer of the largest for-profit employer in
the city shall appoint one initial member for a period of two years.
      (5)   The four appointees shall designate a fifth member who shall serve
an initial term of one year. The fifth member shall not be an employee from
Valparaiso University, Porter Hospital, the Greater Valparaiso Chamber of
Commerce, or the largest for-profit employer in the city.
      (6)   Thereafter all appointing bodies shall make appointments for a
period of two years with the understanding that no individual shall serve for a
period of more than three consecutive two year terms.
      (7)   No person appointed to the Ethics Commission shall be a public
official.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint an attorney to serve as legal counsel for the
Ethics Commission. Legal counsel for the Ethics Commission shall advise and
counsel the Ethics Commission as necessary, but he or she is not a member of
the Ethics Commission.
   (C)   (1)   Every public official, appointed person, or employee when in
doubt about the applicability and interpretation of any city ethics law to
himself or herself in a particular context, may submit in writing the facts of
the situation to the Ethics Commission with a request for an advisory opinion
to establish the standard of public duty. Any public official or employee who
has the power to hire or terminate employees may likewise seek an advisory
opinion from the Ethics Commission as to the application of the provisions of
the ethics laws to any such employee or applicant for employment. An advisory
opinion shall be rendered by the Ethics Commission, and each such opinion shall
be numbered, dated and published.
      (2)   Such opinion, until amended or revoked, shall be binding on the
conduct of the public official or employee who sought the opinion or with
reference to whom the opinion was sought, unless material facts were omitted or
misstated in the request for the advisory opinion.
      (3)   The Ethics Commission shall assist in the preparation of materials
and programs designed to assist persons in complying with the ethics laws and
this chapter. The Ethics Commission shall work with the Ethics Officer in
establishing, presenting, and expanding the city's ethics education program.
   (D)   A complaint to allege a violation of this chapter shall be in writing
and notarized.
      (1)   Complaints concerning city employees or public officials that are
department heads shall be submitted to the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Officer
shall handle such complaints in accordance with §
36.22(C).
      (2)   Complaints concerning public officials who are not city employees
shall be submitted to the Chairperson of the Ethics Commission. The Chairperson
shall provide an unredacted copy of the complaint to all members of the Ethics
Commission, the attorney for the Ethics Commission, and the person who is the
subject of the complaint.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a complaint, the Ethics Commission may:
      (1)   Upon a majority vote, reject, without further proceedings, a
complaint that the Ethics Commission considers frivolous or inconsequential;
      (2)   Upon a majority vote, reject, without further proceedings, a
complaint that the Ethics Commission is satisfied has been dealt with
appropriately by a federal, state, or local agency; or
      (3)   Upon a majority vote, determine that the complaint does not allege
facts sufficient to constitute a violation of this chapter and dismiss the
complaint.
   (F)   If the complaint is not disposed of under division (E) of this
section, the Ethics Commission may undertake any additional investigation
deemed appropriate to determine if probable cause exists to support the
allegations in the complaint. If the Ethics Commission finds by a majority vote
that probable cause exists to support an alleged violation of this chapter, it
shall convene a public hearing on the matter within 60 days after making the
determination. The person who is the subject of the complaint shall be notified
within 15 days of the Ethics Commission's determination of probable cause. The
subject of the complaint or person filing the complaint may request a
continuation of the hearing date and, if approved by the Ethics Commission, a
date will be scheduled no later than 30 days after the original hearing date.
Except as provided in this section, the Ethics Commission's evidence relating
to a complaint and investigation is confidential.
   (G)   (1)   A complaint that is filed with, or proceeding that is held by,
the Ethics Commission before there has been a finding of probable cause is
confidential unless the subject of the complaint or investigation elects to
have information disclosed, or the Ethics Commission elects to respond to
public statements by the person who filed the complaint. The Ethics Commission
may acknowledge:
         (a)   The existence of an investigation before the finding of probable
cause; or
         (b)   That the Ethics Commission did not find probable cause to
support an alleged violation.
      (2)   A complaint filed with the Ethics Commission is open for public
inspection after the Ethics Commission finds that probable cause exists. The
Ethics Commission may compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of relevant records and documents by a subpoena enforceable by the
Porter County Circuit or Superior Court.
   (H)   If a hearing is to be held, the subject of the complaint may examine
and make copies of all evidence in the Ethics Commission's possession relating
to the complaint. At the hearing, the charged party shall have the right to be
represented by counsel, the right to call and examine witnesses, the right to
introduce exhibits, and the right to cross-examine opposing witnesses. The
person filing the complaint shall also have the right to be represented by
counsel, the right to call and examine witnesses, the right to introduce
exhibits, and the right to cross-examine opposing witnesses. The only evidence
to be considered must be given under oath or affirmation.
   (I)   After the hearing, the Ethics Commission shall provide a report, in
writing, of its findings of fact. A finding, by a majority vote, of a violation
of this chapter, or any other statute or rule establishing standards of
official conduct of public officials, appointed persons, or employees, shall be
signed by a majority of the Ethics Commission's members and shall be made
public. The report shall be presented to:
      (1)   The subject of the complaint;
      (2)   The city's Mayor; and
      (3)   The city's Common Council.
   (J)   The Ethics Commission may also forward its report to any of the
following:
      (1)   The prosecuting attorney and law enforcement agency of each county
in which the violation occurred;
      (2)   The state board of accounts;
      (3)   The attorney general; or
      (4)   Any other appropriate person.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
§ 36.21 AUTHORITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The following is a list of current state statutes that affect the
conduct and business by public officials and government employees. In the event
that any such statutes are amended by the General Assembly or additional
statutes are adopted by the General Assembly, such amendments or additional
statutes shall be considered to be a part of this chapter.
      (1)   I.C. 36-4-8-3, pertaining to approval of order for issue of
warrants;
      (2)   I.C. 36-4-8-13, pertaining to obligations in excess of
appropriation;
      (3)   I.C. 36-7-4-207, pertaining to membership of city Plan Commission;
      (4)   I.C. 36-7-4-216, pertaining to qualifications of the Plan
Commission;
      (5)   I.C. 36-7-4-223, pertaining to zoning matters; conflict of
interest;
      (6)   I.C. 36-7-4-905, pertaining to BZA restrictions on holding office;
      (7)    I.C. 36-7-4-909, pertaining to BZA conflict of interest;
      (8)   I.C. 36-7-12-14, pertaining to EDC removal of Commissioner;
      (9)   I.C. 36-7-12-16, pertaining to EDC conflict of interest;
      (10)   I.C. 36-7-14-9, pertaining to removal of Redevelopment
Commissioners;
      (11)   I.C. 36-7-14-10, pertaining to Redevelopment Commission conflict
of interest;
      (12)   I.C. 36-7-18-9, pertaining to removal of commissioner;
      (13)   I.C. 36-7-18-11, pertaining to conflict of interest; commissioner
of a housing authority;
      (14)   I.C. 5-16-11-6, pertaining to conflict of interest disclosure; and
      (15)   I.C. 5-16-11-5.5, pertaining to consultant conflicts.
   (B)   Copies of the above statutes shall be available in each department and
will be available to individuals upon request.
   (C)   All public officials shall receive a copy of this chapter from the
Office of the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after its adoption. Any candidate
for public office or any individual being considered for appointment as a
public official shall be provided with a copy of this chapter prior to their
appointment and such individuals shall confirm, in writing, that their
appointment will be subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and
they shall be bound by this chapter if appointed or elected.
   (D)   Any questions as to the provisions or references made herein should be
addressed to the Ethics Commission in writing. The Ethics Commission shall
respond in writing to any request for an interpretation of a rule, regulation,
or this chapter.
   (E)   In the event that the terms of this chapter are in conflict with any
state law or ruling of a state agency, such law, rule, regulations and/or
ruling of the state agency shall supersede the terms of this chapter.
   (F)   This chapter shall not prohibit a public official or employee from
being reimbursed for expenses, receiving money as a campaign contribution,
participating in collective bargaining, or being paid for a service as a public
official or employee except that may be provided by applicable state law or
state rules and regulations, or any ruling of a state agency of the State of
Indiana.
   (G)   A public official or employee may appear before any public body on his
or her own behalf as to any matter in which he or she has a personal economic
interest if full disclosure is made and such activity is not otherwise
prohibited by law.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
§ 36.22 ETHICS OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of the Ethics Officer is hereby established. The Ethics
Officer is to be appointed by the Mayor. The Ethics Officer is not a voting
member of the Ethics Commission.
   (B)   The mission of the Ethics Officer is to encourage each of the
department heads and employees of the city to act ethically in all actions. The
Ethics Officer shall be the first contact to the city employees. This mission
requires that the Ethics Officer not only encourage compliance with various
laws, but more importantly, encourage each employee and department head to
adhere to the highest standards of ethical behavior. In pursuing that broad
mission, the duties of the Ethics Officer include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Develop policies, programs and strategies to deal with all ethics-
related matters;
      (2)   Develop training and implementation of educational programs;
      (3)   Attend Ethics Commission meetings;
      (4)   Encourage compliance with the spirit and letter of this chapter and
the State of Indiana's ethics laws;
      (5)   Review periodically this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations and recommend to the Ethics Commission appropriate changes to this
chapter;
      (6)   The Ethics Officer shall be the liaison between the Ethics
Commission and the department heads and employees of the city;
      (7)   The Ethics Officer may seek formal opinions from the Ethics
Commission on interpretation of his or her duties or of this chapter; and
      (8)   Accomplish other duties as requested by the Mayor.
   (C)   Upon receiving a complaint that an employee or a public official that
is a department head has not complied with this chapter, or has failed to
disclose an actual or apparent conflict of interest, the Ethics Officer shall:
      (1)   Notify the employee that a complaint has been filed against him or
her and shall allow the employee to respond, in writing, to the complaint;
      (2)   Meet individually with all parties and make recommendations to the
Mayor and department head, if applicable;
      (3)   The complaint will be forwarded to the Ethics Commission under the
following circumstances:
         (a)   If the complaint alleges a severe violation of this chapter; or
         (b)   If no resolution or agreement is reached between the parties
with the assistance of the Ethics Officer.
   (D)   Complaints referred to the Ethics Commission concerning employees
shall proceed according to the procedure for public officials as set forth in §
36.20 of this chapter.
(Ord. 37-2005, passed 9-11-06)
CHAPTER 37: ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
Section
   
37.01   Establishment
   
37.02   Elective office
   
37.03   Duties
   
37.04   Application
   
37.05   Procedure
   
37.06   Right to trial
   
37.07   City official discretion
   
37.08   Applicability of criminal penalty
   
37.09   Restitution
   
37.10   Civil penalty; collection
   
37.11   Non-payment of fines
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(‘89 Code, § 14.01)
§ 37.02 ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is appointed Violation Clerk and empowered to
administer the Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(‘89 Code, § 14.02)
§ 37.03 DUTIES.
   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admissions of violations and payments of civil penalties of not more than $250
in ordinance violation cases scheduled herein.
(‘89 Code, § 14.03) (Am. Ord. 25-2006, passed 6-10-06)
§ 37.04 APPLICATION.
   The various ordinances of the city are subject to enforcement through the
Ordinance Violations Bureau and shall include, but not be limited to, the
Traffic Code, §§
155.01 through
155.23, the City Zoning Ordinance, §§
54.01 through
54.12, and the regulations controlling certain environmental impacts from land
disturbing activities ordinance. The Building Inspector, his or her designees,
members of the Fire Department designated by the Fire Chief, all sworn police
officers, the Engineering Director (City Engineer) or his or her designee, as
well as other officials of the city shall have the authority to issue violation
notices pursuant to this code, as provided for herein.
(‘89 Code, § 14.04) (Am. Ord. 25-2006, passed 6-10-06)
§ 37.05 PROCEDURE.
   The person notified of a violation scheduled herein shall appear before the
Violation Clerk within five days of receipt of the notice or be deemed to have
denied the alleged violation, unless a different procedure is specified in the
chapters and sections listed in §
37.04. Receipt of notice shall occur upon posting  the notice upon the person’s
automobile, residence or the mailing of the notice by first class mail to the
person’s last known address, or faxing the notice to the person's home or
business.
(‘89 Code, §14.06) (Am. Ord. 25-2006, passed 6-10-06)
§ 37.06 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance violation has a right to trial before a
court. Should a person charged with a violation under this section fail to pay
the civil penalty within the time prescribed or file a written denial with the
Violations Clerk, the Violations Clerk shall refer the matter to the City
Attorney for further legal proceedings.
(‘89 Code, § 14.08)
§ 37.07 CITY OFFICIAL DISCRETION.
   If, in the discretion of the city official citing a violation scheduled
herein, the citing will not cause the cessation of the violation, then the
official may, instead of proceeding under this chapter, refer the matter to the
City Attorney for proceeding under §
10.99.
(‘89 Code, § 14.09)
§ 37.08 APPLICABILITY OF CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   The fact that proceedings are begun under this chapter shall in no way limit
the applicability of §
10.99 should the person fail to pay the penalty in the allotted time.
(‘89 Code, § 14.10)
§ 37.09 RESTITUTION.
   The imposition of a penalty under this chapter shall be in addition to
restitution for actual damages arising out of a violation.
(‘89 Code, § 14.11)
§ 37.10 CIVIL PENALTY; COLLECTION.
   (A)   All ordinances, chapters and sections listed in §§
37.04 and/or
37.05 shall carry a civil penalty of $250 unless another penalty is specified
or the city proceeds under §
10.99.
(‘89 Code, § 14.05) (Am. Ord. 25-2006, passed 6-10-06)
   (B)   Civil Penalties under this section shall be paid to, receipted and
accounted for by the Violation Clerk. Payment of civil penalties under this
section may be made in person or by mail.
(‘89 Code, § 14.07)
§ 37.11 NON-PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   In the event a violation of this code or an ordinance goes unpaid for
more than 45 days, and if the violation is referred to a collection agency and/
or attorney for collection, then the violator, in addition to the fees and
fines incurred by the violation, will pay all costs associated with the
collection of fines, including costs for the collection agency, court fees,
attorney fees and any other costs associated with the failure to pay the
initial fine or fee.
   (B)   All moneys received under this section shall be receipted into the
Parking Meter Fund.
(Ord. 32-2004, passed 9-27-04)
CHAPTER 38: ADVISORY HUMAN RELATIONS COUNCIL
Section
   
38.01   Purpose
   
38.02   Membership of Advisory Human Relations Council
   
38.03   Organization of Advisory Human Relations Council
   
38.04   Meetings
Cross-reference:
   Boards, Departments and Commissions, see
Chapter 33
§ 38.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish an Advisory Human Relations
Council responsible for providing advice and assistance to the Mayor in areas
including the following:
   (A)   Advising the Mayor on the status of human relations in the city and
identifying special needs or opportunities to enhance those relations.
   (B)   Acting as a resource to the Mayor when racially or ethnically
motivated incidents occur.
   (C)   Suggesting convening of events designed to promote a better
understanding of minorities and improve the community's acceptance of
diversity.
   (D)   Serving as a liaison between the Mayor's Office and minority groups.
(Ord. 19, 2011, passed 6-27-11)
§ 38.02 MEMBERSHIP OF ADVISORY HUMAN RELATIONS COUNCIL.
   The Valparaiso Advisory Human Relations Council shall be composed of ten
members all of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor. Members shall serve
without compensation and shall provide counsel and assistance to the Mayor on
matters related to community human relations.
(Ord. 19, 2011, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 3, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 38.03 ORGANIZATION OF ADVISORY HUMAN RELATIONS COUNCIL.
   (A)   Within 30 days from the date of the adoption of this chapter, the
Mayor shall appoint the initial ten members of the Advisory Human Relations
Council. In making appointments to the Advisory Human Relations Council, the
Mayor shall consider the individuals sensitivity and awareness to human
relations matters affecting the community. The Advisory Human Relations Council
membership shall reflect the diversity of community and shall include
representation from all major sectors of the community, including business and
labor, non-profit organizations, education, government and the faith community.
   (B)   Except as noted below, members shall serve terms of three years
commencing on January 1 and until reappointed or a successor is appointed. As
to the existing members, appointments and terms shall be handled as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the Mayor shall be a city employee. This
member shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and retain membership on the
Council until removed and replaced by the Mayor.
      (2)   Three members shall serve until December 31, 2020.
      (3)   Three members shall serve until December 31, 2021.
      (4)   Three members shall serve until December 31, 2022.
      (5)   The Valparaiso Police Chief shall serve as a nonvoting member.
      (6)   The Mayor may appoint up to four nonvoting members who are full-
time high school or college students and reside in Valparaiso. The terms of
these nonvoting members shall be for one year starting January 1.
      (7)   Upon adoption of this section, the Mayor shall issue appropriate
written appointments identifying which current members are assigned to the
terms outlined in divisions (B)(2) through (4).
   (C)   Upon completion of the terms identified in divisions (B)(2) through
(4), the Mayor shall appoint members for a full three year term. Members may be
reappointed for consecutive terms; however, no member shall serve more than
three consecutive terms commencing January 1, 2020.
   (D)   At the first Council meeting of each year, the Council shall select a
Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from its members. The Chairperson shall be
the primary contact person between the Mayor and Council.
   (E)   Should a vacancy arise on the Council, the Mayor shall appoint a
person to complete the remaining portion of the current term.
   (F)   The Mayor may remove any member of the Advisory Human Relations
Council for cause including the failure of the member to attend three
consecutive Advisory Human Relations Council meetings or an actual conflict of
interest.
(Ord. 19, 2011, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 29-2011, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 3,
2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 38.04 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Advisory Human Relations Council shall meet with the Mayor within
30 days after its initial organizational meeting to identify human relation
matters of concern to the Mayor. The Mayor may assign to the Advisory Human
Relations Council tasks and responsibilities related to human relation matters
and may seek the counsel and advice of the Advisory Human Relations Council on
these matters. Upon the request of the Mayor, the Advisory Human Relations
Council may pursue identification of specific barriers to equal opportunity and
ways to address these barriers. The Advisory Human Relations Council may be
requested to serve as a resource to the Mayor when incidents motivated by
bigotry and/or intolerance occur or when there is a need for a liaison between
the Mayor's Office and minority groups. The Mayor may also use the Advisory
Human Relations Council as a voice on behalf of those members of the community
who believe that they are disadvantaged because of their membership in a
historically disadvantaged group and the Advisory Human Relations Council may
be requested to identify means of informing the community through communication
about the benefits of diversity and the harm of exclusion. In addition, the
Advisory Human Relations Council may identify matters for consideration without
a request from the Mayor.
   (B)   The Advisory Human Relations Council shall meet at least quarterly
each year and as needed or requested by the Mayor. It shall report its
activities, findings and recommendations to the Mayor.
(Ord. 19, 2011, passed 6-27-11)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER WORKS
   
51.   SEWERS
   
52.   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
   
53.   REFUSE AND RECYCLING
   
54.   ILLICIT/ILLEGAL DISCHARGES AND/OR CONNECTIONS TO STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
   
55.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: WATER WORKS
Section
   
50.01   Department of Water Works established
   
50.02   Board of Directors
   
50.03   Destruction of Water Works property prohibited
   
50.04   Tampering with fire hydrants prohibited
   
50.05   Tampering with pipes or mains prohibited
   
50.06   Unauthorized use of water prohibited
   
50.07   Extension of water services
   
50.08   Rate schedule outside of city
   
50.09   Cross connections
   
50.10   Resale of water
   
50.11   Wellhead Protection Plan (WHPP)
   
50.12   Right-of-entry by Department of Water Works employees
   
50.13   Connection required
   
50.14   Water Conservation Plan
   
50.15   Use of private wells prohibited; exceptions
   
50.16   Sealing of wells required
   
50.17   Liability and ownership of mains, services and fixtures
   
50.18   Installation of sewers in close proximity of existing water mains
   
50.19   Addition of statutory authority
   
50.20   Payment in lieu of taxes for outside territory customers
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of an Act of the State General Assembly entitled,
“An Act authorizing cities and towns owning and operating water works to create
a Department of Water Works, establishing a water district and the boundaries
thereof, providing for a building extension and additions to such Water Works
and for the operation, maintenance and management thereof, authorizing the
issuance and sales of bonds payable solely from revenue of such Water Works,
matters connected therewith,” a Department of Water Works in the city is hereby
created, which Department of Water Works shall be subject to the provisions of
the Act.
(I.C. 8-1.5-4) (‘89 Code, § 104.01) (Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.02 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The city utilities shall be under the exclusive management and control
of a Board of Directors, to be known and designated as the City Utilities
Board. The City Utilities Board shall consist of five members, each of whom
shall be a resident of the area serviced by the city utilities.
   (B)   The directors each shall be appointed by the Mayor. The term of
Director is four years. There are no term limits. Not more than three of the
directors shall be affiliated with the same political party. Each director’s
term shall begin on July 1.
   (C)   Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled for
the unexpired term by the Mayor.
   (D)   Each of the directors elected shall immediately qualify for and take
office as prescribed, and shall continue to serve as director and perform his
or her duties as provided by law during the term for which he or she was
appointed.
(‘89 Code, § 104.02)
   (E)   Each qualified director shall receive as full compensation for his or
her service the sum of $200 per month. This sum shall be compensation for
attendance at any and all regular and/or special meetings, and for any and all
other services rendered to the City Department of Water Works.
(‘89 Code, § 104.03)
   (F)   The amount of the bond for each officer and member of the Board of
Directors appointed to manage and control the Department of Water Works shall
be $10,000.
(‘89 Code, § 104.04)
   (G)   Upon the election of the members of the Board of Water Works Directors
and their qualification as required by law, they shall function as the Board of
Directors of the Department of Water Works and shall have and possess all of
the rights, powers, duties and liabilities that are set forth or prescribed by
statute.
      (1)   The Board of Directors shall adopt and maintain the policies, rules
and regulations of the Department and may bill its customers charges incidental
to its operations and in accordance with its rules and regulations.
      (2)   The Board of Directors will make recommendations to the City
Council on rates and fees. The City Council shall have the responsibility to
set the rates and fees for the Department.
(‘89 Code, § 104.05)
   (H)   All liabilities incurred by the city in the ownership and operation of
the Water Works system, including all necessary expenses incurred by the city
in creation of the Department of Water Works and in effecting the transfer of
the Water Works to the Board of Directors of the Water Department shall be
assumed by the directors to pay and discharge in accordance with the provisions
of the law. Payment and discharge of the liabilities may be made by the Board
of Directors out of cash or proceeds of accounts receivable transferred by the
Board of Public Works of the city or out of the operation and maintenance of
the Depreciation Fund.
   (I)   The Board of Public Works shall relinquish and transfer to the Board
of Water Works Directors control of all lands, personal properties and duties,
subject to any contracts now in force, which have been in any way a part of or
connected with the Water Works system of the city. It shall be the duty of the
Board of Water Works Directors to receive the same as prescribed by law.
(‘89 Code, § 104.06) (Am. Ord. passed - -01; Am. Ord. 30-2011, passed 11-14-11)
§ 50.03 DESTRUCTION OF WATER WORKS PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without written authority from the General Manager of Water
Works, change, modify, break or in any way or manner interfere with or injure,
deface or remove any part or parcel of the Water Works or place or deposit any
earth or other material in any public or private hydrant or shut off valve
boxes, or in any way interfere with the use of any part or attachment connected
with the Water Works. Tampering, modifying or destroying of meters is
prohibited.
(‘89 Code, § 104.07) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, except members of the fire department in case of a fire or
during a regular test or trial of the Fire Department, shall, without the
written authority of the General Manager of Water Works, open any fire hydrant
or remove any cap or caps from the same.
   (B)   No person shall be authorized to use a fire hydrant without first
receiving proper training from a person authorized by the Department of Water
Works to conduct the training.
(‘89 Code, § 104.08) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05 TAMPERING WITH PIPES OR MAINS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without the written permission and authority of the General
Manager of Water Works, tap any main or pipe forming any part of the Water
Works owned by the city, do any work in connection with the introduction of
water into any premises, or alter, extend, change or modify any water pipe or
fixture already installed in any premises, or make or cut off connections in
any way whatever with or from the mains or service pipes of the Department of
Water Works.
(‘89 Code, § 104.09) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall take or use water from the Water Works for domestic or other
purposes without having previously contracted for the same in compliance with
the rules and regulations of the Water Works Department.
(‘89 Code, § 104.10) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.07 EXTENSION OF WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be lawful but not obligatory for the Department of Water
Works to permit and to furnish water to properties outside the corporate
boundaries of the city, which properties are within a distance of five miles
from the current corporate boundaries of the city upon terms and conditions
that are acceptable to the Department.
   (B)   As a condition to furnishing the municipal services or either of them,
the property owners shall sign a waiver and an agreement binding upon
themselves, their heirs, assigns and grantees, agreeing therein to come into
the corporate boundaries of the city and waiving their rights to object to
annexation when and if the city decides by ordinance that the land so affected
by the terms of the ordinance should be annexed to the city.
(‘89 Code, § 104.11)
   (C)   All extensions of city water shall be paid for at the expense of the
benefited properties as is now provided for by law, except as authorized by
Board of Directors resolution. There shall in no way be cast upon the civil
city any additional obligations to construct water services other than those
provided by law.
(‘89 Code, § 104.12) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.08 RATE SCHEDULE OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   Any property owner who resides outside of the city and receives water
services as provided in this chapter shall pay the rate charged to a property
owner within the corporate boundaries of the city and in accord with the
existing rate schedule then in effect.
(‘89 Code, § 104.14) (Am. Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.09 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross connection
control devices or backflow prevention devices not in working order, whereby
the public water supply distribution  system is directly connected, either
continuously or intermittently, with any secondary source of water supply,
sewer, drain, conduit, pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or
other device which contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the
public water supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage, storm water or
other waste of liquid of unknown or unsafe quality.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of 327 IAC 8-10-1, cross connections
between potable water systems and other systems or equipment containing water
or other substances are prohibited, except when and where approved by the
Department of Water Works, suitable protective devices such as appropriate back
flow prevention devices or equal are installed, tested and maintained to ensure
proper operation on a continuing basis. It shall be the responsibility of each
water supply user and/or other property owner to meet these requirements at the
user’s and/or property owner’s expense.
   (C)   In order to protect the public water system from contamination due to
contaminants through the water service connection into the public water system,
a program of regulation, testing and inspection shall be adopted by the
Department of Water Works.
   (D)   The plumbing in every building or premises served by the Department of
Water Works shall be inspected by a qualified plumber who is an IDEM certified
cross connection inspector and the plumber/inspector shall provide a written
report of the inspection as required by the Department of Water Works.
   (E)   The General Manager or his or her designated agent shall have the
right-of-entry into every building or premises served by the Department of
Water Works during reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspection of
plumbing systems connected to the public water supply. Refusal to allow
inspection of a building or premises is cause for requiring the installation of
a maximum hazard backflow prevention device at the owner’s expense, or
discontinuation of public water supply service.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.10 RESALE OF WATER.
   No water may be resold or furnished by the customer to any other building or
premises, except in case of emergency and on approval of the General Manager.
(Ord. passed - -01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.11 WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN (WHPP).
   The Department of Water Works shall develop and maintain a WHPP plan to
provide drinking water source protection and as required pursuant to 327 IAC 8-
4.1.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.12 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY BY DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Authorized employees of the Department of Water Works shall have the
right-of-entry to any building or premises for the purpose of reading,
inspecting and maintaining water meters and automatic meter reading devices or
for the purpose of making inspections in order to maintain the public water
supply system in good condition and to provide for the protection of the public
water supply system.
   (B)   Where inspections are not of an immediate or urgent nature, employees
of the Department of Water Works shall arrange for appointments mutually
convenient to the owners or occupants of the building or premises and any
authorized employees.
   (C)   Any person refusing to permit any authorized employee of the
Department of Water Works access to the building or premises shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to suspension of water services until
access is received.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.13 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any occupied building, dwelling or
premises abutting on the Department of Water Works main to cause the structure
to be connected with the main within six months from the date that the water
main becomes available for use to the structure.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.14 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN.
   During times of drought, it may be necessary to require conservation of
public water sources. The Department of Water Works shall have a plan to
conserve water at times that the public water supply is deemed by the
Department of Water Works to be substantially affected by drought conditions.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.15 USE OF PRIVATE WELLS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No private water wells shall be constructed, reconstructed or
reconditioned within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the repair or replacement of pumping
equipment in existing wells.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to properties that do not have a public
water main within 300 feet of the closest edge of the property.
   (D)   It is deemed unlawful and in violation of this chapter to connect a
private well to a system that is connected to the public water supply.
Connection of this type is considered a cross connection.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.16 SEALING OF WELLS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon connection to the public water supply, any wells serving the
property shall be abandoned and sealed in accordance with applicable state
regulations.
   (B)   Any well that is abandoned for a period of one year must be sealed in
accordance with applicable state regulations.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.17 LIABILITY AND OWNERSHIP OF MAINS, SERVICES AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   The Department of Water Works shall maintain specifications and
standards for all mains, connection services and valves within the public water
supply system. Plumbing and fixtures shall be regulated by the city building
bodes, cross connection regulations and appropriate state codes. The Department
of Water Works owns and operates all water mains and services between and
including the main and curb box shut-off valve. In addition, the Department of
Water Works shall own the water meter and meter reading devices installed
within the building, dwelling or premises.
   (B)   The property owner owns and has liability for the water connection
service from, and excluding, the curb box shut-off valve to the building or
structure.
   (C)   The Department of Water Works shall not be liable for any damages
caused by a leak or break in any private part of the water connection service.
The costs associated with the repair and/or replacement of any portion of the
private part of the water connection service shall be paid by the property
owner, including any additional water usage resulting from the occurrence.
   (D)   The Department of Water Works shall not be responsible for any damage
to buildings, trees or other obstructions within Department of Water Works
easements and/or public rights-of-way that may result from work being performed
in the easements and/or public rights-of-way by the Department of Water Works.
   (E)   If a leak develops in the water service while a party is performing
work on a water service, it shall be the responsibility of the person causing
the leak to repair the item at his or her expense in a timely manner.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.18 INSTALLATION OF SEWERS IN CLOSE PROXIMITY OF EXISTING WATER MAINS.
   (A)   All sanitary and storm sewer lines shall be laid to provide a minimum
horizontal distance of ten feet and, in case of a crossing, a vertical distance
18 inches from any existing or proposed water main. The distance shall be
measured from the outside edge of the water main to the outside edge of the
sewer. In the case of a crossing, the joints of the sewer shall be located as
far from the joint of the water main as possible. Special structural support
for the water main and sewer may be required by the Department.
   (B)   In cases where it is not practical to maintain the required horizontal
and vertical minimum distances, the Department must specifically approve any
variance from the minimum distance requirements. Where these distances cannot
be met, the sewers shall, at a minimum, be constructed of water main type and
grade or equivalent, and shall be pressure tested to ensure water tightness.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.19 ADDITION OF STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   Upon acceptance and approval of the foregoing provisions by the City
Council, and by virtue of the powers given to the Department of Water Works
herein, the City Council further adopts by reference and grants to the
Department of Water Works all powers, duties and rights set forth in I.C. 8-
1.5-4, as amended, together with all other rules and regulations governing the
same.
(Ord. passed - -01)
§ 50.20 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR OUTSIDE TERRITORY CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT ("EDU"). The equivalent of a single-family
residential dwelling unit calculated as follows:
         Annual flow for the most recent 12 month period (in gallons)    xxx
         Divided by days of the year                ÷365   =   xx
         Daily Flow                         xx
         Divided by single family residential daily flow          ÷310   =   x
         EDUs                           x
      OUTSIDE TERRITORY CUSTOMERS. Those properties and premises that are
connected to and served by the Damon Run System but are located outside of its
service territory. The term includes all properties and premises that are
currently connected to the system or that are connected in the future.
   (B)   Payment in lieu of taxes (PILOT). There is established a monthly PILOT
applicable to the outside territory customers in the amount as presented on
Exhibit A of Ord. 26-2019 to be adjusted annually for the "true-up" defined
below. The number of EDUs applicable to each outside territory customer shall
be determined according to the terms of such customer's service agreement as
defined above. The amount of the PILOT shall be "trued-up" or adjusted each
year to ensure that the outside territory customers are paying an amount
consistent with the service agreements and the ongoing needs of Damon Run.
   (C)   Existing rates and charges. This section is only intended to establish
PILOTs for Damon Run's outside territory customers. Unless specifically amended
by this section, all other city water rates, charges, and provisions related
thereto shall remain in full force and effect.
   (D)   Classification of rates and charges. The PILOTs set forth herein will
not be imposed based on whether the customer in question is inside or outside
the city limits, but rather will be based on whether the customer will be
served by the distinct and separate Damon Run water facilities. Other than the
outside territory customers, the city and VCU do not collect PILOTs from any
other customers.
(Ord. 26-2019, passed 10-28-19)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewage Works
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Unlawful discharges
   
51.03   Building sewer permit required
   
51.04   Hazardous waste
   
51.05   Household water discharge
   
51.06   Industrial water discharge
   
51.07   Content of discharge information
   
51.08   Sampling
   
51.09   Grease traps
   
51.10   Unusual flow and accident
   
51.11   State and federal application
   
51.12   Malicious trespass prohibited
   
51.13   Inspection
   
51.14   Private sewer systems
   
51.15   Wastewater Service Area
Sewage Rates and Charges
   
51.25   Definitions
   
51.26   User classification
   
51.27   Determination of rates and charges
   
51.28   Water usage
   
51.29   Strength and character of discharges
   
51.30   Billing
   
51.31   Rate study
   
51.32   By-laws and regulations
   
51.33   Board of Public Works and Safety duties
   
51.34   Special rate contracts
   
51.35   Charges for service to city; billing
   
51.36   Owners’ and tenants’ responsibility
   
51.37   Rates for users outside the city limits
   
51.38   Penalty for nonpayment
   
51.39   Rates and charges for the Damon Run Service Area
Sewer Construction Regulations
   
51.50   Connection permit required
   
51.51   Permit application
   
51.52   Permit validity and term
   
51.53   Inspection fee
   
51.54   Connection fees
   
51.55   Reimbursable districts
   
51.56   Determination of fees
   
51.57   Owner responsible for maintenance of service line
   
51.58   Owner to pay installation cost
   
51.59   Performance, damage bond and insurance
   
51.60   Applicant to indemnify city for loss
   
51.61   Sewer connection for each building
   
51.62   Use of old building sewers
   
51.63   Lack of gravity flow
   
51.64   Open trench excavations required
   
51.65   City utilities to inspect connection
   
51.66   Excavation safety precautions
   
51.67   Damage to public property
Cross-reference:
   Pretreatment of Industrial Wastes, see
Chapter 52
SEWAGE WORKS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or (BOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20° C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, as herein defined.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or (COD). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, as herein defined.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat those type of pollutants
and in fact does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term
SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not subject to precise definition, but generally
contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals
in the order of 10 to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the
additional pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin, except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state that will separate by
gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility approved by the
city.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through means such as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from sources such as, but not limited to: roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguishable
from infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city, through its
Board of Public works and Safety, to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Section 307(a) of P.L. 92-500, being 33 USC 1317(a);
and/or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NH3. Ammonia nitrogen measured as ammonia. The laboratory determination
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, as
herein defined.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of
the United States pursuant to Section 402 of P.L. 92-500.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE
shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   COD not more than 480 mg/l;
         (b)   BOD not more than 240 mg/l;
         (c)   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l;
         (d)   NH (nitrogen as ammonia) not more than 30 mg/l; and/or
         (e)   Phosphorus not more than 10 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus, total. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods, as herein defined.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
   PUMPING STATION. shall mean a station positioned in the public sewer system
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The three most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of P.L. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550° C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(‘89 Code, § 100.01)
§ 51.02 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process water. The city shall require
the removal of unpolluted wastewater collection or treatment facility if the
removal is cost effective and in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use these sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the city. No new connection shall be made unless there is
capacity available to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and
the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner, on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
Permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
Permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage located in a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the city.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of
the property line.
(‘89 Code, § 100.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.03 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $50
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, and in this
case the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear
building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.
9. All connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(‘89 Code, § 100.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.04 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interfering with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage
treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to factors such as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F or 65°
C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F or 0° and 65°
C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to a degree that the material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Superintendent for chlorine requirements;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities so as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined in §
51.01.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) of this article, and
which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon
the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the city;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage, as defined in §
51.01;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to
avoid any slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; and/or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating the wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with any necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. Agents of the city, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and
report thereof, which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA published in the Federal Register of
October 16, 1973 (38 CFR 20758), and any subsequent revisions subject to
approval by the city. In the event that no special manhole has been required,
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of
hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analysis involved will
determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but
not always, DOD suspended solids analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites
of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined from periodic grab samples.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at rates that are compatible with those set forth in §§
51.25 through
51.38.
(‘89 Code, § 100.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.05 HOUSEHOLD WATER DISCHARGE.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling or condensing systems, shall
be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or to a combined sewer
approved by the city. Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to
a natural outlet approved by the city and by the state. Where a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, the unpolluted water may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the city.
(‘89 Code, § 100.07)
§ 51.06 INDUSTRIAL WATER DISCHARGE.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.05.
(‘89 Code, § 100.08)
§ 51.07 CONTENT OF DISCHARGE INFORMATION.
   The city may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows characteristics. The
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the city, an appropriate charge shall be assessed to the user by the city.
(‘89 Code, § 100.09)
§ 51.08 SAMPLING.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in §§
51.25 through
51.38, from samplings taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of
time and of a duration and in a manner as the city may elect, or at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the city. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis shall be assessed to the user by the city. The results of
routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of
charges after verification by the city.
(‘89 Code, § 100.10)
§ 51.09 GREASE TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be gas tight,
water tight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed, all
grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at
his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(‘89 Code, § 100.11)
§ 51.10 UNUSUAL FLOW AND ACCIDENT.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the city of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(‘89 Code, § 100.12)
§ 51.11 STATE AND FEDERAL APPLICATION.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in effect.
(‘89 Code, § 100.13)
§ 51.12 MALICIOUS TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(‘89 Code, § 100.14)
 Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.13 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as the personal injury or
property damage may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.04.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(‘89 Code, § 100.15)
§ 51.14 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, pursuant
to
Chapter 52, the building service sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter. For the purpose
of this chapter, the private sewage disposal system referred to herewith shall
be a septic system.
(‘89 Code, § 101.01)
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a septic system, the owner
shall first obtain a written permit from the city. The applicant shall make
application on a sewer permit form furnished by the city and obtainable in the
office of the City Engineer. The applicant for a permit shall supply plans,
specifications and additional information as deemed necessary by the City
Engineer, and these shall be attached to the application. Requirements for
construction of private sewage disposal systems are contained in the city’s
manual entitled A Manual on Sewer Construction, as referenced in §
51.63.
(‘89 Code, § 101.02)
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed. The permit and inspection fee
shall be allocated to the Sewer Improvement Fund.
(‘89 Code, § 101.03)
   (D)   A soil percolation test shall be required prior to issuance of a
permit for septic tank installation. The test may be performed by the Sewer
Superintendent or his or her representative, or may be contracted with a
registered engineer or land surveyor whose stamp shall be affixed to the data
sheet(s). The purpose of the percolation test is to determine the soil
absorption rate and size of the absorption trench necessary. A minimum of three
test holes shall be required, each spaced a minimum of 50 feet from other test
holes and within the area designated for the installation of the disposal
field. Test results with absorption rates greater than 60 minutes per inch
shall not be acceptable.
(‘89 Code, § 101.04)
   (E)   A fee of $25 for the soil percolation test performed by the Sewer
Department representative shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the
sewer application is filed. The soil percolation test fee shall be allocated to
the Sewer Improvement Fund.
(‘89 Code, § 101.05)
   (F)   In the event that the soil percolation test proves that the proposed
absorption field contains unsuitable soils, the permit application shall be
denied. The permit shall be voided and the permit and inspection fee of $50
shall be refunded to the applicant.
(‘89 Code, § 101.06)
   (G)   A permit for a septic system shall not become effective until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer Superintendent.
(‘89 Code, § 101.07)
   (H)   The Sewer Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction. The permit holder shall notify the Superintendent when
the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The final inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of
the notice by the Superintendent.
(‘89 Code, § 101.08)
   (I)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with recommendations of the State Department of
Environmental Management.
(‘89 Code, § 101.09)
   (J)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 16,000 square feet.
(‘89 Code, § 101.10)
   (K)   No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or
watercourse.
(‘89 Code, § 101.11)
   (L)   At the time that a public sewer becomes available to property served
by a private sewage disposal system, pursuant to
Chapter 52, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 101.12)
   (M)   Septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material upon connection with the
public sewer system.
(‘89 Code, § 101.13)
   (N)   The owner shall operate and maintain any private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
(‘89 Code, § 101.14)
   (O)   No person shall uncover, alter or disturb any portion of an existing
private sewage disposal system without first obtaining a written permit from
the Office of the City Engineer. Permit and inspection fees as outlined in
division (C) above shall apply.
(‘89 Code, § 101.15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.15 WASTEWATER SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   The City of Valparaiso Wastewater Service Area is hereby defined and
established as those areas within the corporate boundaries of the city, as well
as certain areas within ten miles outside the city's boundaries, excluding any
area within the authorized service area of another wastewater utility. A map
and description detailing the Wastewater Service Area is attached to Ord. 7,
2020. The areas included within the Wastewater Service Area are highlighted in
green (Damon Run CD Service Areas), blue (2017 VCU Master Plan Service Areas),
and orange (other proposed service areas).
   (B)   The city (and VCU) shall hold an exclusive license to furnish and
regulate wastewater service in the Wastewater Service Area, and VCU shall be
the exclusive provider of wastewater utility service to the public within the
Wastewater Service Area.
   (C)   No other utilities are permitted to provide wastewater service within
the City of Valparaiso Wastewater Service Area. This section does not: (1)
mandate the city or VCU to extend service to areas where technically or
financially not feasible; or (2) prevent the use of onsite disposal systems
where the city does not currently have facilities available. Rather, this
section expressly prohibits other utilities from furnishing wastewater service
to customers within the Wastewater Service Area.
   (D)   No end service user shall permit a connection to wastewater service
within the Wastewater Service Area by any other wastewater service provider.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation that violates this section shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $2,000.00 per violation, and each day of
violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (F)   VCU's existing rules and regulations for wastewater service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the Wastewater Service
Area.
   (G)   The city hereby authorizes VCU and its Board of Directors to pursue
any and all necessary approvals for the implementation, effectiveness, and
enforcement of this section, including, but not limited to, seeking approval of
this section by the Commission.
(Ord. 27-2019, passed 10-14-19; Am. Ord. 7, 2020, passed 3-9-20)
SEWAGE RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of Valparaiso, Indiana, or any
duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Indiana, acting by and through the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE
shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   COD not more than 480 mg/l;
         (b)   BOD not more than 240 mg/l;
         (c)   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l;
         (d)   NH (nitrogen as ammonia) not more than 30 mg/l ;and/or
         (e)   Phosphorus not more than 10 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
works were designed and constructed.
   SEWER INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment
to this chapter, which provides for recovery from industrial users of the
sewage works a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the
construction of sewage facilities for treating industrial waste pursuant to
Section 204(b) of P.L. 95-217 and 40 CFR Part 35.928.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works, pursuant to Section 204(b)
of P.L. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (for
example, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in
the user charge system and as industrial and nonindustrial in the industrial
cost recovery system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which based on a determination by the city,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on a
determination of the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(‘89 Code, § 103.01)
§ 51.26 USER CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined herein, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from
each user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the
treatment works in terms of volume and load.
   (B)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class. User charges are subject to the
rules and regulations by the United States Environmental Protection Agency,
published in the Federal Register of September 27, 1978 (43 CFR 44022).
Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user charges,
shall be based upon the expected useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I, residential;
      (2)   Class II, commercial;
      (3)   Class III, governmental;
      (4)   Class IV, institutional; and
      (5)   Class V, industrial.
(‘89 Code, § 103.02)
§ 51.27 DETERMINATION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the city sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
city.
   (B)   The rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to the rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purposes of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed
each month or period equaling a month. The water usage schedule on which the
amount of the rates and charges shall be determined is incorporated by
reference and made part of this section the same as if set out in full.
      (2)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or if
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be herein provided. Sewage service bills
shall be rendered once each month or period equaling a month. The schedule on
which these rates and charges shall be determined is incorporated by reference
and made part of this section as if set out in full.
      (3)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to
the same rates and charges provided for in subsections (1) and (2) above, or to
charges and rates established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In order to recover the costs of monitoring industrial wastes, the
city shall charge the user $25 per sample. This charge will be reviewed and
revised on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this subchapter.
(‘89 Code, § 103.03) (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-98 ; Am. Ord. 50-2006, passed 12-18-
06 )
§ 51.28 WATER USAGE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the city shall be
determined by the city in a manner as the city shall reasonable elect, and the
sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the city may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction in the city that the
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
city for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the city. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the city for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each of this
type of case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be
averaged for each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall
apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the city’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in this case billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than
the number of dwelling units times $4.85 per month. In the case of mobile home
courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the
total number of mobile home spaces available for rent plus any other dwelling
units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room
or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (F)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for the use of water for lawn care during
the consumption months, the billing for sewage services for residences and/or
domestic uses for the months of May, June, July, August and September (billing
months of June, July, August, September and October) shall be based upon the
average water usage for the previous billing months of December, January,
February, March, April and May. The sprinkling rate allowance shall not be
available to users who have occupied the billed premises for less than three
months and not received three bills prior to the sprinkling rate billing
period. In the event the water usage for the consumption months of May, June,
July, August and September is less than the average of the previous months,
then the billing for sewage services shall be computed on the actual water used
in the month for which the sewage service bill is being charged. Domestic and/
or residential sewage service as applicable to the sprinkling rate shall apply
to each lot, parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used as a
single-family residence. For the purpose of this section condominiums shall be
treated as single-family residences.
   (G)   The sprinkling rate set out herein shall not apply to any premises
which are partially or wholly used for multi-family, commercial, industrial or
other nonresidential purposes. The owner of any multi- family, commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential property which is used partially for
residential purposes shall have the right to obtain separate water service for
the residential portion of the premises and, if the separation of water service
is obtained by the owner, then that water service used solely for residential
purposes would qualify for the sprinkling rate provided herein. In the event
that a user who does not qualify for the sprinkling allowance desires to be
considered for this allowance, then the user shall petition the Board of Public
Works and Safety in writing for consideration for this allowance.
   (H)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the city’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 3,500 cubic feet per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
city that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the city for the determination of sewage discharge.
(‘89 Code, § 103.04) (Am. Ord. 9, passed 3-26-01)
§ 51.29 STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the city shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The city shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system, in a manner and by a method as the city may deem practicable in
the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order
to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the city at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid, a chemical oxygen demand in
excess of 480 milligrams per liter of fluid, suspended solids in excess of 200
milligrams per liter of fluid, phosphorus in excess of 10 milligrams per liter
of fluid or NH3 in excess of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional
charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the
following basis:
      (1)   There shall be an additional charge of $.16 per pound for suspended
solids received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   There shall be an additional charge of $.13 per pound of
biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of 240 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (3)   There shall be an additional charge of $.065 per pound of chemical
oxygen demand for COD received in excess of 480 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (4)   There shall be an additional charge of $.50 per pound of phosphorus
received in excess of 10 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (5)   There shall be an additional charge of $.27 per pound of NH3
received in excess of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid.
(‘89 Code, § 103.05)
§ 51.30 BILLING.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the city in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that the examination shall be
made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that the
office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and charges shall thereupon attach thereto.
The time at which the rates or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 20 days
after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (D)   Annually, unless it is available monthly, in conjunction with a
regular bill each user will be notified of the rate and that portion of the
bill attributable to the user charge system, specifically operation,
maintenance and replacement cost.
(‘89 Code, § 103.06)
§ 51.31 RATE STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or classes, the city shall cause a study to be made within a
reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation, following
the date on which this chapter goes into effect. The study shall include, but
not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the treatment of
excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and delivery flow
rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes, the
financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its revenue to
provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance, replacements, debt
service requirements and capital improvements to the waste treatment systems.
In addition, any excess revenue collected from a class of users shall be
applied to the next year’s cost attributed to that class and the rates shall be
adjusted accordingly.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the city shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the city, by a firm of certified public
accountants, a firm of consulting engineers, which firms shall have experience
in these type of studies, or by a combination of officers, employees, certified
public accountants or engineers as the city shall determine to be best under
the circumstances.
(‘89 Code, § 103.07)
§ 51.32 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The city shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the city’s
sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of sewage
rates and charges.
(‘89 Code, § 103.08)
§ 51.33 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY DUTIES.
   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the sewage
works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed to the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 103.09)
§ 51.34 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and the reduction shall be limited to the
reduced costs.
(‘89 Code, § 103.11)
§ 51.35 CHARGES FOR SERVICE TO CITY; BILLING.
   (A)   For the sewage service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject
to the same rates and charges provided in this subchapter, or the charges and
rates established in harmony therewith.
(‘89 Code, § 103.12)
   (B)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the city, and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance. The first
billing may be for a period of more or less than one full month in order to
make the monthly collection period correspond with the water meter readings of
the city.
(‘89 Code, § 103.13)
§ 51.36 OWNERS’ AND TENANTS’ RESPONSIBILITY.
   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying the
properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owners, but the
billings shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event payment
is not made as herein required. The owners of the properties served which are
occupied by tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the city for the purpose of determining whether the rates and charges have been
paid by the tenants, provided that the examination shall be made at the office
at which the records are kept and during the hours that the office is open for
business.
(‘89 Code, § 103.14)
§ 51.37 RATES FOR USERS OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   The charges fixed in this subchapter shall apply to lots, parcels of real
estate and buildings located within the limits of the city. For service
rendered by the sewage treatment works to lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings located outside the limits of the city, the rates and charges,
including minimum charges, shall be 150% of those rates and charges established
herein. All other provisions set out herein shall be applicable to users
located outside the city limits.
(‘89 Code, § 103.15)
§ 51.38 PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized and directed to discontinue water
service to any water consumer or to any property upon failure by the water
consumer or the owner of the property to pay any charges legally due the city
for sewage disposal plant service, all in accordance with Chapter 30 of the
Acts of 1961 of the State General Assembly, upon notification by the city that
the charges are unpaid and that the requirements of Chapter 30 of the Acts of
1961 as to the waiting period and giving of notice by the city to the water
consumer or owner of property of its intention to discontinue the water service
have been complied with. The discontinuance of water service shall remain in
effect until the Department of Water Works is notified by the city that all
delinquent charges for sewage disposal plant service have been paid. The
Department of Water Works is authorized to make its usual charge for the
disconnection and reconnection and to collect the charge prior to
reestablishing water service.
   (B)   The giving of notice to the water consumer or property owner shall be
done by the Department of Sanitation for and on behalf of the city in
accordance with Chapter 30 of the Acts of 1961. The Department of Sanitation
shall also give the notice on behalf of the City to the Department of Water
Works of the failure of the water consumer or property owner to pay the
charges, and notice of payment of the charges when the same are paid. All of
the notices shall be given upon forms prescribed by the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
   (C)   The remedy hereby created for the collection of sewage disposal plant
service charges shall be deemed to be a new and additional remedy, and may be
used, at the option of the city, in place of or together with all other lawful
remedies and procedures now existing or hereafter created by law.
(‘89 Code, § 103.18)
§ 51.39 RATES AND CHARGES FOR THE DAMON RUN SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DAMON RUN AREA. All properties and premises connected to the Damon Run
System, whether located within or outside of the service territory granted to
Damon Run. The term includes all properties and premises that are currently
connected to the system or that are connected in the future. A map generally
describing the Damon Run Area is attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 25-2019.
      EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT ("EDU"). The equivalent of a single-family
residential dwelling unit using 310 gallons of water per day. An illustration
of EDUs for non-single family residential dwelling units is shown on Exhibit B
of Ord. 25-2019.
   (B)   Monthly rates and charges. The sewage rates and charges for the Damon
Run Area shall be based on the quantity of water used on the property or
premises subject to such rates, as measured by the water meter there in use,
plus a base charge based on the EDU assigned to the property by VCU on the
basis of usage and calculated using Exhibit B or per the terms of any
applicable service agreement.
      (1)   Monthly fixed rate per EDU: $60.78
      (2)   Metered flow rate (per 1,000 gallons): $7.77
   (C)   Connection fee. VCU shall impose a one-time connection or capacity fee
for each new structure connecting to the Damon Run System. The amount of the
connection fee shall be $2,700 per EDU. For purposes of calculating the
appropriate connection fee, EDUs will be determined consistent with Exhibit B
of Ord. 25-2019. To the extent a customer seeks to expand its existing
facilities and, in turn, will discharge more wastewater into the Damon Run
System, VCU and the city may impose an additional connection or capacity fee
based upon the anticipated amount of the additional usage.
   (D)   Non-recurring charges. The customers within the Damon Run Area shall
be subject to all of the city's other non-recurring charges as set forth in the
city's applicable ordinances which may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Classification of rates and charges. The rates and charges set forth
herein will not be imposed based on whether the customer in question is inside
or outside the city limits, but rather will be based on whether the customer
will be served by the distinct and separate Damon Run facilities (i.e. is
located within the Damon Run Area). For a customer located within the Damon Run
Area that is using 5,000 gallons of water per month, the monthly sewer rate
will be $99.63. A Valparaiso customer using 5,000 gallons of water per month
will have a monthly user rate of $47.75, a difference of $51.88 or 108.6%.
   (F)   Existing rates and charges. This section is only intended to establish
the rates and charges associated with sanitary sewer service to the Damon Run
Area. Unless specifically amended by this section, all other city sewer rates,
charges, and provisions related thereto shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 25-2019, passed 10-28-19)
SEWER CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 51.50 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall expose, repair, abandon, construct, disconnect, clean,
alter, plug or disturb any public or private sanitary sewer main or service, or
any appurtenance thereto without first obtaining a sewer permit from the Office
of the City Engineer.
(‘89 Code, § 102.01) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.51 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The owner of the property, or his or her licensed and bonded agent, shall
make application on a form provided by the City Engineer or his or her
representative. The application shall be accompanied by plans, sketches,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent, in the judgment of
the City Engineer or his or her representative. A sewer permit is valid for one
year. A waiver of remonstrance to annexation is required for any sewer permit
outside the city’s corporate limits.
(‘89 Code, § 102.02) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.52 PERMIT VALIDITY AND TERM.
   The permit shall not be considered valid until all fees associated with said
permit are paid to the Clerk Treasurer. Said fees shall include, but may not be
limited to the following: connection fee(s); district (reimbursable fee(s));
non-resident fee; inspection fee; municipal inspection fee(s) (new
construction); and recording fee(s) (re: waivers, etc.).
(Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.53 INSPECTION FEE.
   An inspection fee of $100 shall be paid with the filing of the application
to expose, repair, abandon, construct, disconnect, clean, alter, plug or
disturb any public or private sanitary sewer main or service, or any
appurtenance thereto, that is located outside of the building being served.
This fee is in addition to any municipal inspection fees required for new
construction of mains. All inspection fees shall be paid to the Water
Reclamation Operating Fund.
(‘89 Code, § 102.03) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.54 CONNECTION FEES.
   The connection fee for any direct or indirect connections to the sanitary
sewer system is as shown on Exhibit "A", attached to Ordinance No. 46-2005,
passed November 14, 2005.
   (A)   The connection fee shall be charged for each connection to any sewer,
public, or private, for each retail or wholesale customer whose sewer
eventually connects with the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Except as provided in the sanitary sewer treatment agreement with the
Valparaiso Lakes Area Conservancy District, for connections outside of the
corporate limits of the city, there shall be a $350 non-resident fee charged
over and above the connection fee listed herein, for each residential living
unit or non-residential connection.
   (C)   When a building service sewer is permitted to be extended to
additional structures the owner shall pay connection fees for the additional
structures.
   (D)   The Utilities Board of Directors shall have the right to reduce the
amount of the connection fee for unique circumstances such as, but not limited
to, certain overlapping reimbursable districts, qualifying not-for profit
organizations, etc.
   (E)   The internal distribution of the connection fee shall be 45% paid to
the Water Reclamation Improvement Fund and 55% paid to the Cumulative Sewer
Fund. The City Engineer shall determine the amount of each connection fee
allocated to each fund.
   (F)   For single-family or duplex units that have 1,500 square feet or less
of living space (not including garages or unfinished basements), the connection
fee will be equal to the multi-family rate.
   (G)   For residential structures with more than one living unit and that are
served with one water meter, the connection fee shall be the multi-family rate
for the appropriate year, times the number of living units in the structure.
   (H)   For a structure with multiple tenants and each tenant served with a
water meter, the connection fee shall be the sum of the individual fees for
each meter.
   (I)   For a structure with mixed residential and commercial/industrial uses
and one water meter, the connection fee shall be the sum of the multi-family
rate times the number of living units and the single commercial/industrial fee
based on the actual water meter size.
   (J)   In cases where the structure(s) will not be served with city water
service and/or meter, the connection fee shall be based on the City Engineer's
estimate of what the meter size would have been if water were provided. For
residential users this shall be the three-quarter inch fee.
   (K)   If an existing water meter is replaced with a larger size the owner
shall pay the difference in cost for the connection fee per the larger size
meter. The determination of the fee shall be made as of the date of the change
to the meter. No credit shall be given in the case of a decrease in meter size.
(Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.55 REIMBURSABLE DISTRICTS.
   In the case of a sewer permit that is issued within a reimbursable sewer
district, all terms of the reimbursable sewer district agreement shall be met.
The Utilities Board has the right to reduce the sewer connection fee by an
amount determined by the Board, if, in the opinion of the Board the cumulative
fees become too onerous on the applicant.
(Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.56 DETERMINATION OF FEES.
   The City Engineer or his or her representative shall determine the various
permit fees to be charged to each applicant. In the event that the applicant
objects to the charges, he or she may appeal to the Utilities Board of
Directors for determination and disposition. In the case of the reduced fee due
to units less than 1,500 square feet, the applicant must specifically apply for
such fee reduction and present calculations for review determining such
reduction is allowable. The 1,500 square feet limit shall be based on gross
area.
(Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.57 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINE.
   The owner(s) of a property shall be responsible for all cleaning,
maintenance and repair of the service line from the service connection at the
main to the structure being served. This includes any portion of sewer service
located within public right-of-way and/or under road pavement.
(Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.58 OWNER TO PAY INSTALLATION COST.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building service sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(‘89 Code, § 102.10) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.59 PERFORMANCE, DAMAGE BOND AND INSURANCE.
   Any contractor doing work which is or will be connected to the city’s sewage
system shall be registered with the city and meet all the requirements of said
registration.
(‘89 Code, § 102.11) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.60 APPLICANT TO INDEMNIFY CITY FOR LOSS.
   The applicant agrees to indemnify the city, city utilities, and its
officials and employees from any liability due to loss, damage, injury, or
other casualties of whatsoever kind, or by whomsoever caused, to the person or
property of anyone arising out of, or resulting from the issuance of this
permit or the work connected therewith, or from the installation, existence,
use maintenance, condition, repair, alteration, or removal of any equipment or
material, whether due in whole or in part to the negligent acts or omissions
of:
   (A)   The city, its officials, agents, or employees;
   (B)   The applicant, his or her agents or employees, or other persons
engaged in the performance of the work; or
   (C)   The joint negligence of any of them, including any claims arising out
of the Worker's Compensation Act or any other law, ordinance, order, or decree
for a period of two years.
   (D)   The applicant also agrees to pay all reasonable expenses and
attorney's fees incurred by or imposed on the city in connection herewith in
the event that the applicant shall default under the provisions of this
section.
(‘89 Code, § 102.13) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.61 SEWER CONNECTION FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building service sewer shall be provided for
every building. Each unit of a duplex is required to have a separate sewer
connection. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on any
interior lot and no sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear of the
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
service sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
(‘89 Code, § 102.14) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.62 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building service sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found on examination and test by the Sewer Collection
Supervisor to meet all the requirements of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 102.15) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.63 LACK OF GRAVITY FLOW.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building service sewer.
(‘89 Code, § 102.17) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.64 OPEN TRENCH EXCAVATIONS REQUIRED.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building service sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Sewer Collections
Division Supervisor. Inspections must be made before the trench is closed, with
line fully exposed.
(‘89 Code, § 102.18) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.65 CITY UTILITIES TO INSPECT CONNECTION.
   The applicant for a building service sewer permit shall notify the City
Utilities Sewer Collections Division when the building service sewer is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer 24 hours in advance.
Inspection is to be made prior to closing of the trench. The connection of the
building service sewer to the public sewer shall be made under the inspection
of the Sewer Collections Division Supervisor or his or her representative.
Failure to call for an inspection 24 hours prior to the work being started is
subject to rejection of the work. To avoid rejection and disconnect of work for
this reason, the trench may be re-excavated to expose the building service
sewer, at which time an inspection shall be made by the Sewer Collections
Supervisor. Directed boring is not excluded.
(‘89 Code, § 102.19) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.66 EXCAVATION SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Safety
shall be provided for workmen and equipment on the work site as required.
(‘89 Code, § 102.20) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
§ 51.67 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Any work within a public right-of-way requires a right-of-way cut permit.
Trees, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of
the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city and meeting the
requirements of the right-of-way cut permit.
(‘89 Code, § 102.21) (Ord. 46-2005, passed 11-14-05)
CHAPTER 52: INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Objectives
   
52.003   Policy
   
52.004   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
52.005   Confidential information
   
52.006   Definitions
Pretreatment Regulations and Requirements
   
52.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.021   Pretreatment standards
   
52.022   Local limitations
   
52.023   Right of revision
   
52.024   Dilution prohibition
   
52.025   Pretreatment of wastewater
Industrial Discharge Permits
   
52.035   Permit required
   
52.036   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
52.037   Wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
52.038   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
52.039   Application signatories and certification
   
52.040   Permit decisions
   
52.041   Permit duration
   
52.042   Permit contents
   
52.043   Permit appeals
   
52.044   Permit modification
   
52.045   Permit transfer
   
52.046   Permit revocation
   
52.047   Permit reissuance
   
52.048   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
52.060   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.061   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.062   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.063   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.064   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.065   Reports of potential problems
   
52.066   Reports from non-permitted users
   
52.067   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.068   Discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.069   Analytical requirements
   
52.070   Sample collection
   
52.071   Record keeping
   
52.072   Signatory requirements
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.085   Procedure
   
52.086   Data screening
   
52.087   Tracking system
   
52.088   Inspection procedures
   
52.089   Right-of-entry; inspection and sampling
   
52.090   Search warrants
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.100   Upset
   
52.101   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.102   Bypass
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
52.115   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
52.116   Notification of violation
   
52.117   Consent orders
   
52.118   Show cause hearing
   
52.119   Compliance orders
   
52.120   Cease and desist orders
   
52.121   Administrative fines
   
52.122   Emergency suspensions
   
52.123   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
52.135   Injunctive relief
   
52.136   Civil penalties
   
52.137   Criminal prosecution
   
52.138   Remedies nonexclusive
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates the connection to and use of public and private
sewers and drains, the installation and connection of building sewers, and the
discharge of waters and wastes into the public sewer system of the city, and
provides penalties for violations thereof. In addition, this chapter sets forth
uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater
collection and treatment system for the city, and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act, the
same being 33 USC 1251 et seq., and the General Pretreatment Regulations, the
same being 40 CFR Part 403.
(‘89 Code, § 105.01) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.002 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of the chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city’s wastewater
treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resultant sludge;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city’s wastewater
system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
   (C)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works (POTW);
   (D)   To provide for fees assessed for the capacity to treat excess strength
wastes; and
   (E)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject.
(‘89 Code, § 105.02) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.003 POLICY.
   This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. The chapter provides for
the regulation of discharges into the city’s wastewater treatment system
through the issuance of industrial wastewater discharge permits, the execution
of special agreements, and the enforcement of administrative regulations.
(‘89 Code, § 105.03) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.004 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications and the cost of
processing the applications;
   (B)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(‘89 Code, § 105.73) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs, and from the Authority’s inspection and sampling activities shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Authority that
the release of the information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state
law. Any requests on these grounds must be asserted at the time of submission
of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user
furnishing a report that the information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other “effluent data,” as defined by 40 CFR 2.302, will not
be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the public
without restriction.
(‘89 Code, § 105.52) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (P.L. 92-500),
also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, the same being 33 USC 1251 et
seq.
      APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any federal, state and/or local
pretreatment limit or prohibitive standard contained in this chapter and
considered to be the most restrictive with which non-domestic users will be
required to comply.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of the U.S. EPA or The
Director of the State Environmental Management.
      AUTHORITY. The City Waste Water Treatment Plant Superintendent or his or
her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. 
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
daily discharges over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
      AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
daily discharges over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that week.
      BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible
or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD.  The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20° C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
      BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or
other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
      BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the
act, the same being 33 USC 1317, which apply to a specific category of users
and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made using
standard laboratory procedures, in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136, expressed
in milligrams per liter.
      CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Porter County, Indiana.
      CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR). A publication of the United States
government which contains all of the finalized federal regulations.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive other wastewater and storm or
surface water.
      COMPOSITE SAMPLES. Shall mean a 24-hour composite sample containing a
minimum of 12 discrete samples taken manually or automatically, at equal time
intervals, over the compositing period or proportional to the flow rate over
the compositing period.
      CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT. A pollutant which has been designated as
conventional under Section 304(a)(4) of the Act.
      DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day
or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes
of sampling.
      EFFLUENT. Raw, untreated, partially or completely treated wastewater or
other liquid flowing from an IU to a reservoir, basin, treatment process or
treatment plant.
      EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation
of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to the sources if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state that will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility approved by
the city.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample which is taken from a wastestream
without regard to flow rate and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
      GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d)
of the Act.
      INDUSTRIAL USER or IU. Any non-domestic source which introduces
pollutants into a POTW.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (IWDP). A permit to deposit or
discharge industrial waste into the city’s collection system, as issued by the
POTW.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through means such as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.  INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow, without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW. The water entering into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from sources such as, but not limited to: roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguishable
from infiltration.
      INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
      INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city, through its
Board of Public Works and Safety, to inspect and approve the installation of
building sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
      INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum
concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sample event.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal as defined in
40 CFR Part 403.3(i).
      MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
      MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance with Section 307(b)
and (c) of the Act, as well as prohibitive discharge limits established
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403.5.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to the source if the
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other discharge source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating process of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (a)2. or 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to an
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined herein, has commenced
if the owner or operator has begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous
on-site construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment;
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            3.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NH3. Ammonia nitrogen measured as ammonia. The laboratory determination
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
      NON CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate products, waste
products or finished products.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
         (a)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, NORMAL DOMESTIC
SEWAGE shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
            1.   COD not more than 480 mg/l;
            2.   BOD not more than 240 mg/l;
            3.   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l;
            4.   NH (nitrogen as ammonia) not more than 30 mg/l; and/or
            5.   Phosphorus not more than 10 mg/l.
         (b)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/
or sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
      NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of
the United States pursuant to Section 402 of PL 92-500.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, along or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharge from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-partnership, joint stock
company, trust, estate, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency, the state, the United States of America, or other legal
entity or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The singular includes
the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution by standard
laboratory procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 136, expressed in standard
units.
      PHOSPHORUS or P. The chemical element phosphorus, total. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR
Part 136.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects the waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve the beneficial uses. The manmade or man-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances. These prohibitions
appear in § 52.020.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, the same being 33 USC 1298, which is owned by the city.
This definition includes any devices or systems or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and only conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and will consist of the following increments:
         (a)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
         (b)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure. 
         (c)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
         (d)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The three most common types of sewage are:
         (a)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Shall mean wastes, including sanitary sewage,
industrial sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the
wastewater treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
         (b)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
         (c)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary pumping facilities.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment
standards;
         (b)   An industrial user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW, excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater;
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER by the city on
the basis that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect,
transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under Sections 402
and 405 of the Federal Act in the applicable requirements under Sections 3001,
3004, and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the same being P.L. 94-580.
      SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards in § 52.20.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the current Standard Industrial Classification manual issued by the Executive
Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.
      STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
approved edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted
water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Elden Kuehl Pollution Control
Facility of the city or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering using EPA approved methods.
      TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of total suspended and total dissolved solids using
EPA approved methods.
      TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological
manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(1) of
P.L. 92-500.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307(a) of the
Act as well as any other known potential substances capable of producing toxic
effects.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the applicable standard due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance or careless or improper operation of the facilities.
      U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
      USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
      VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550° C for 15 to 20 minutes in accordance with
procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW which is designed to
provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
(‘89 Code, § 105.04)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall
have the meanings designated below.
      40 CFR PART 136. Pertains to guidelines establishing test procedures for
the analysis of pollutants.
      40 CFR PART 261. Pertains to identification and listing of hazardous
waste.
      40 CFR PART 403. Pertains to general pretreatment regulations for
existing and new sources of pollution.
      BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      CWA. Clean Water Act.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      GPD. Gallons per day.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      IU. Industrial user.
      mg. Milligrams.
      mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      O & M. Operation & Maintenance
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIC. Standard industrial classification.
      SIU. Significant industrial user.
      TRC. Technical review criteria.
      TSS. Total suspended solids.
      USC. United States Code.
      WWTP. Wastewater treatment plant.
(‘89 Code, § 105.05) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the public
owned treatment works any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   No discharger shall be allowed to contribute or cause to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following into the wastewater
disposal system or otherwise to the facilities of the Authority:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or liquids, solids or
gases which by reason of their nature or quantity are, or may be, sufficient
either alone or by interaction to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in
any other way to the operation of the POTW, and waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140° F (60° C) using test methods specified in 40 CFR
Part 261.21;
      (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the system;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction of
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case,
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40° C (104° F);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable, cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through, or
100 mg/l, which ever is more stringent;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the
POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge point designated
by the city in accordance with § 52.035(D);
      (9)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either alone or by interaction, to cause the treatment plant’s effluent to fail
a toxicity test;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which, either
alone or by interaction, are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair;
      (11)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions, thereby
violating the city’s NPDES permit;
      (12)   Any slugload, including any oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like), released in a single extraordinary discharge episode of a volume or
strength so as to cause interference to the POTW; and/or
      (13)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration that exceed limits established by the Authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human excrement,
garbage, medical or other objectionable wastes.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage,
condensate, non-contact cooling water, deionized water, artesian wellwater, or
unpolluted wastewater unless specifically authorized by the city.
   (E)   No person shall discharge sludge, screenings or other residuals from
the pretreatment of industrial wastes.
   (F)   No person shall discharge medical wastes, except as specifically
authorized by the city in an IWDP.
   (G)   No person shall discharge fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable
origin in concentrations greater than 100 mg/l.
   (H)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
city, any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (I)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (J)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner so that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(‘89 Code, § 105.07) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.021 PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471, state requirements and limitations on discharges, or the
requirements in this chapter shall apply, which ever is more stringent.
(‘89 Code, § 105.08) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.022 LOCAL LIMITATIONS.
   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the
following:
Constituents Concentration (mg/l)
Constituents        Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic             0.30
Beryllium           0.50
Cadmium             0.11
Chromium            5.00
Copper              0.45
Cyanide             0.20
Hexavalent chromium 0.50
Lead                0.55
Mercury             0.0003
Molybdenum          0.05
Nickel              1.50
Selenium            0.60
Silver              0.90
Total phenols       2.00
Zinc                5.00
 
   (B)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for “total” metal
unless indicated otherwise. The city may impose mass limitations in addition
to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.020, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Authority may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the city;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined in §
52.006;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid
any slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive loadings discharged
to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having capacity for and
treating the wastes. Each person or entity who discharges industrial wastes
into the public waters shall be subject to a surcharge in addition to the
regular sewage service charge based on both the BOD (COD where BOD cannot be
determined) and Total Suspended Solids content of the wastes, if these wastes
have a concentration greater than the following:
         (a)   A BOD of 240 mg/l, or a COD of 480 mg/l; and/or
         (b)   A TSS content of 200 mg/l.
      (6)   Surcharge rates will be assessed on a per pound basis in excess of
the stated maximum using the formula:
         (0.00624) × (billing sewage volume in 100 cubic feet) × (excess
concentration)
example: (0.00624)(75)(400 - 300)=46.8 lb
         (a)   Excess BOD (COD) rate: $0.13/lb ($0.065/lb)
         (b)   Excess TSS rate: $0.16/lb.
   (D)   If the Authority permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Authority and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (F)   When required by the Authority, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with any necessary meters and
other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling
and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the city. The manhole shall be maintained by the owner at all times. Agents
of the city, the State Department of Environmental Management, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (G)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined
according to the Code of Federal Regulations, specifically 40 CFR Part 136. All
sampling shall be conducted at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (H)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The sample type shall be
linked to the duration of the pollutant limit being applied. Compliance with
instantaneous limits shall be established using individual grab samples.
Compliance with daily, weekly or monthly average limits shall be determined
using composited sampling data except in the following cases:
      (1)   Sampling for parameters that may be altered in concentration by
compositing or storage, like pH sensitive compounds, volatile organics and the
like;
      (2)   Sampling for pollutants with short holding times such as hexavalent
chromium and residual chlorine; and/or
      (3)   Sampling for pollutants which may adhere to the sample container or
tubing such as fats, oils and grease.
(‘89 Code, § 105.09) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.023 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements.
(‘89 Code, § 105.10) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.024 DILUTION PROHIBITION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The Authority
may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
(‘89 Code, § 105.11) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.025 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
52.020 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the city,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
describing the facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Authority for review, and shall be acceptable to the Authority before the
facilities are constructed. The review of the plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the
provisions of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 105.13)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Authority may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and remedy any other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Authority may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Authority, and
shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. The
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired as needed, according to
design specifications of the interceptor by and at the user’s expense.
Interceptor maintenance shall be properly documented and records of the same
shall be retained for review.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(‘89 Code, § 105.14) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
   (C)   At least once every two years, the Authority shall evaluate whether
each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control
plan. The Authority may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement this type of plan. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following elements found at 40 CFR Part 403.8(f)(2)
(v)(A)-(D):
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Authority of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.065; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. These procedures include, but are not limited to inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (D)   (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the Superintendent, and at times as are established by
the Superintendent. The waste shall not violate §§ 52.20 through 52.24 or any
other requirements established by the city. The Authority may require septic
tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The Authority shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
industrial wastewater discharge permits. The Authority shall require generators
of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
Authority also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Authority. No load may be discharged without prior consent of
the Authority. The Authority may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards. The Authority may require the industrial
waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      (4)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(‘89 Code, § 105.16) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 52.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All industrial users proposing to connect to or discharge sewage, industrial
wastes and other wastes into the city’s collection system must complete an
application for an industrial wastewater discharge permit (IWDP) and a sewer
connection permit before connecting or discharging to the POTW.
(‘89 Code, § 105.17) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.036 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Authority may require users to obtain wastewater discharge permits
as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Authority,
except that a SIU that has filed a timely application pursuant to this chapter
may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions delineated in §§
52.115 through
52.138. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
his or her obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements, or with any other requirements of federal, state and
local law.
(‘89 Code, § 105.18) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.037 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain a permit prior to the
beginning or recommencing of the discharge. An application for this wastewater
discharge permit, in accordance with §
52.038, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(‘89 Code, § 105.19) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.038 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The Authority may require all users to submit as part of
an application the following information:
      (1)   All information required in §
52.085(B);
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (8)   The facility’s SIC Number; and
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Authority
to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate IWDP applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the User for revision and resubmission.
(‘89 Code, § 105.20) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.039 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All IWDP applications must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.072.
(‘89 Code, § 105.21) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.040 PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Authority will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. Within 45 days of receipt of a complete wastewater
discharge permit application, the Authority will determine whether or not to
issue a permit. The Authority may deny any application for a wastewater
discharge permit.
(‘89 Code, § 105.22) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.041 PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years at the
discretion of the Authority. Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire.
(‘89 Code, § 105.23) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.042 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall include any conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the Authority to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with §
52.065 and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharger permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. The schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond
that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Authority to ensure
compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(‘89 Code, § 105.24) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.043 PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   The city shall provide public notice of the issuance of a wastewater
discharge permit.
   (B)   Any person, including the user, may petition the Authority to
reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within 18 days of notice
of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Authority fails to act within 45 days, a request or
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the appropriate court for proper jurisdiction within the statute
of limitation.
(‘89 Code, § 105.25) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.044 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Authority may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (D)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (E)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (F)   Revision of categorical pretreatment standards pursuant to 40 CFR Part
403.13;
   (G)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (H)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(‘89 Code, § 105.26) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.045 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 days advance notice to the
Authority and the Authority approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer.
   (B)   The notice to the Authority must include a written certification by
the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(‘89 Code, § 105.27) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.046 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for, but not limited
to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Authority of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Authority of changed
conditions pursuant to §
52.064;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Authority timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; and/or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.28) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.047 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
52.042, a minimum of 45 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(‘89 Code, § 105.29) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.048 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If a sewer district/conservancy district, or user located within
another district, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Authority shall enter
into an inter-municipal agreement with the contributing entity.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Authority shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Any other information as the Authority may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intergovernmental agreement, as required by division (A) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing sewer districts or conservancy
districts to adopt a sewer use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this
chapter and local limits which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
52.022. The requirement shall specify that the ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for each contributing sewer district or conservancy
district to submit a revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement will be conducted by each contributing sewer district
or conservancy district; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Authority; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing districts and the Authority.
      (4)   A requirement for each contributing district to provide the
Authority with access to all information that the contributing Authority
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
district’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing district’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Authority access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing district’s jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary by
the Authority; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intergovernmental agreement.
(‘89 Code, § 105.30) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.060 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR Part 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Authority a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard shall submit to the
Authority a report which contains the information listed in division (B) below.
A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner;
      (2)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production, and
standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by the
user. This description should include a schematic process diagram which
indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.
      (4)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste stream formula set
out in 40 CFR Part 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants, with the following information:
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Authority,
of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.069; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with the procedures set
out in §
52.070.
      (6)   A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorization representative
and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet
the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet
the requirements set out in §
52.061; and
      (8)   All baseline monitoring reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
52.072.
(‘89 Code, § 105.32) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.061 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.060(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. The events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation;
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Authority no later than
14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between progress
reports to the Authority.
(‘89 Code, § 105.33) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.062 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to the pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Authority a
report containing the information described in §
52.060(B)(4) through (6). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR Part 403.6(c),
this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production, or other measure of operation, this report shall include the user’s
actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.072.
(‘89 Code, § 105.34) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.063 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Authority but in no case less than twice per year, in June and December,
submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. All
periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.072.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that simple results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Authority, using
the procedures prescribed in §
52.070, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(‘89 Code, § 105.35) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.064 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the city of any planned significant changes to
the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume
of its wastewater at least 60 days before the change.
   (B)   The Authority may require the user to submit any information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.042.
   (C)   The Authority may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.040 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.044 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increase of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(‘89 Code, § 105.36) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.065 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the Authority of
the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall submit a
detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the
measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. The
notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other
liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall the
notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability which
may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(‘89 Code, § 105.37) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.066 REPORTS FROM NON-PERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Authority as the city may require.
(‘89 Code, § 105.38) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.067 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Authority within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation.
(‘89 Code, § 105.39) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.068 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No user shall discharge any hazardous waste, as characterized under 40 CFR
Part 261, to the POTW.
(‘89 Code, § 105.40) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.069 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by the EPA.
(‘89 Code, § 105.41) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.070 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the Authority may authorize
the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab samples where
the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the
effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show
compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, dissolved solids and volatile organic compounds must be obtained
using grab collection techniques.
(‘89 Code, § 105.42) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.071 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the date analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of the
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Authority.
(‘89 Code, § 105.43) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.072 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement as required by 40 CFR Part 403.12(1):
   “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(‘89 Code, § 105.44) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.085 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Authority shall have the right to identify and document violations
for administrative actions and legal proceedings. User compliance with
applicable regulations shall be determined and evaluated through, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Self-monitoring data from users;
      (2)   Inspections conducted by the Authority;
      (3)   Surveillance sampling and analysis conducted by the Authority; and
      (4)   Evaluation of user application information by the Authority.
   (B)   Self-monitoring data shall be required from all permitted industrial
users. Each report shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user.
Inspections by the Authority shall be conducted to verify compliance and
identify potential problems or violations. Surveillance sampling shall require
strict adherence to standard procedures and a field chain of custody procedures
shall be followed for the samples to maintain their identity. Information
submitted by the users shall be evaluated for compliance with regulations.
(‘89 Code, § 105.46) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.086 DATA SCREENING.
   The Authority shall screen and evaluate data generated through self-
monitoring and surveillance sampling. Each violation shall be noted and
appropriate enforcement action shall be initiated.
(‘89 Code, § 105.47) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.087 TRACKING SYSTEM.
   The Authority may require all or part of the following items from the user
by a specific date:
   (A)   Self-monitoring reports;
   (B)   Industrial discharge permit applications;
   (C)   Compliance schedule progress reports;
   (D)   Follow up information subsequent to facility inspection;
   (E)   Reports following spills, accidental or slug discharges;
   (F)   Special discharge permit applications;
   (G)   Waste manifests; and/or
   (H)   Written response to notices of violation.
(‘89 Code, § 105.48) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.088 INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   The Authority shall have the right to visit and/or inspect a user’s facility
as many times as necessary to track compliance schedule activities, verify
changes in discharge or processes, maintain a regulatory presence or scrutinize
user facilities with discharges most likely to impact the POTW. Advance notice
by letter or telephone shall be given to the user of the impending inspection,
except in case of demand inspections which are conducted as a result of spill,
accidental discharge, surveillance sampling or other extraordinary events.
(‘89 Code, § 105.49) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.089 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Authority shall have the right to enter the premises of any user
to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Authority ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangement with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Authority will be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The Authority shall have the right to set up on the user’s property,
or require installation of, any devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (D)   The Authority may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated on a semiannual basis to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Authority and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by the user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Authority access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 105.50) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.090 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Authority has been refused access to a building, structure, property
or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that
there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the city,
designated to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then the Authority may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
County Circuit Court.
(‘89 Code, § 105.51) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.100 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the User. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Authority
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(‘89 Code, § 105.69) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.101 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in
52.020(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.020(B) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that
its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user is in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(‘89 Code, § 105.70) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.102 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. Means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion
of a user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation.
   (C)   These bypasses are not subject to the provision of divisions (D) and
(E) below.
   (D)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Authority at least ten days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Authority of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Authority may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (E)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Authority may take an enforcement action
against a user for a bypass, unless
      (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage; and/or
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
      (3)   The user submitted notices as required under division (D) above.
(‘89 Code, § 105.71) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.115 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city shall publish annually, in the largest daily news paper
published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the city believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through,
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the city’s exercise of
its emergency Authority to halt or prevent the discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the city determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(‘89 Code, § 105.53) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.116 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Authority finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Authority may
serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within ten days of receipt
of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Authority. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
Authority of the city to take any action, including emergency actions or any
other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(‘89 Code, § 105.55) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.117 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Authority may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. The documents will include specific action to be
taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified
by the document. The documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §
52.138 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(‘89 Code, § 105.56) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.118 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Authority may order a user which has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before
the Authority and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for the action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days prior to the
hearing. The notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user.
A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.57) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.119 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Authority finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the
user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come
into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances
are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.58) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.120 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Authority finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that
the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the city may issue an order to
the user directing it to cease and desist all the violations and directing the
user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take any appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.59) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.121 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Authority finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may fine the user in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine allowed under
state law. The fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In
the case of monthly or other long term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 90 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.5% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute the fines must file a written request for
the city to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within 21 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
city may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s appeal is
successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be
returned to the user. The city may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.60) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.122 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Authority may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever the suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Authority may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice and
opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Authority may
take any steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The Authority may allow the user to recommence
its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Authority that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination
proceedings in §
52.123 are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Authority prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under §§
52.118 or
52.123.
   (D)   Nothing in this section will be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(‘89 Code, § 105.61) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.123 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
52.046 any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; and/or
      (5)   Violation of pretreatment standards in §
52.025.
   (B)   The user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
52.118 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Authority shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.62) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.135 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Authority finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may
petition the County Circuit Court through the City Attorney for the issuance of
a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Authority
may also seek any other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.57) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.136 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a
maximum civil penalty of the maximum allowed under state law but not less than
$1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term
average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period
of the violation.
   (B)   The Authority may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.65) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.137 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine or not more than the maximum fine allowed
under state law per violation.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least the maximum
fine allowable under state law. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state
law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than the
maximum fine allowable under state law per violation, per day.
   (D)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than the maximum fine allowable under state law per violation,
per day.
(‘89 Code, § 105.66) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
§ 52.138 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Authority
may take any, all or any combination of these actions against the noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the city’s enforcement response plan. However, the Authority may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Authority is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant user.
(‘89 Code, § 105.67) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-98)
CHAPTER 53: REFUSE AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Rules and regulations
   
53.03   Administration
   
53.04   Enforcement
   
53.05   Refuse/garbage collection fee
Scope of Work
   
53.10   General description
   
53.11   Hours of operation
   
53.12   Recyclable materials
   
53.13   Recycling disposal units
   
53.14   Yard waste
   
53.15   Automated collection system
   
53.16   Refuse originating outside of the city
   
53.17   Disposal units collected
   
53.18   Depositing on public streets or sidewalks
   
53.19   Accumulation on private premises; disposal unit
   
53.20   Construction debris
   
53.21   Bulk items
   
53.22   Abandoned or unattended appliances
   
53.23   Dumpsters
   
53.24   Contractors
Solid Waste Management
   
53.35   Fees; revenues
   
53.36   Extra services
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT COMPLEX. A single residential structure with more than four
separate living units or multiple adjacent structures that are part of a larger
residential complex or grouping with a combined total of more than four
separate living units. Although not solely determinative, common ownership or
multiple adjacent residential structures that contain more than four separate
living units shall be indicative of an APARTMENT COMPLEX.
   BULK ITEMS. All appliances, furniture, mattresses, children's play equipment
and/or solid waste material with a weight or volume greater than that allowed
by a disposal unit.
   CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Porter County, Indiana.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. At a minimum, construction waste is lumber, windows,
glass, doors, concrete, pavers, tile, drywall, landscape refuse, rubber mulch,
grout, tarps, pallets, compounds, drywall mud, shingles, gutters, asphalt,
cement blocks, duct work, water beaters, wiring, furnaces, plastic piping,
copper piping, sewer piping, flooring, particle board, ceramic tile, vinyl
flooring, hardwood flooring, joists, trusses, radiators, steel piping,
cabinetry, laminate and Formica counter tops, rubber boots (sleeves for
piping), bricks, clay tiles, rubber roofing material, tar and asphalt, gravel,
paneling, plumbing fixtures, treated lumber, deck material, fencing, swimming
pools, cellulose ceiling tiles, insulation, chain link fence, tin celling,
rebar, wire mesh, light fixtures, all siding, sheeting, window treatments and
carpets.
   CONTRACTORS. Any paid business or individual, or any business or individual
that as part of their craft or employment performs work on any property located
within the city.
   CURBSIDE. Within three feet immediately adjacent to street pavement or alley
pavement and gutter.
   CUSTOMER.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER is any person residing in the city's corporate
limits provided that the resident is not residing in any structure with more
than four separate living units or within an APARTMENT COMPLEX. A RESIDENTIAL
CUSTOMER shall receive full garbage and recycling services from the City's
Public Works Division as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   BUSINESS CUSTOMER is an owner or a: i) commercial or industrial
structure; ii) APARTMENT COMPLEX; or iii) structure that contains an
institutional or non-profit organization, which produces any type of garbage
and/or recycling as defined in this chapter and bas entered into a contract for
garbage and/or recycling services with the city as defined in this chapter.
   DISPOSAL UNIT. The wheeled container(s) selected and approved by the Board
of Public Works and Safety for the purpose of disposing of refuse.
   DUMPSTERS. Any container larger than 96 gallons used for the collection of
any and all types of refuse.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Public Works Division,
Valparaiso City Services, City of Valparaiso, Indiana or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Wastes defined and designated as hazardous by the USEPA,
IDEM and/or the Porter County Health Department.
   HOUSEHOLD CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Waste materials from do it
yourselfers and/or a contractor, interior and exterior household construction,
remodeling and repair projects, including, but not limited to, concrete,
drywall, plywood and paneling pieces, lumber and other building materials;
windows and doors; cabinets; carpeting; tile; disassembled bathroom and kitchen
fixtures.
   ITEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   MAY. The action referred to as permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTES. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, blood products, sharps,
body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated
laboratory wastes and/or unused medications.
   REFUSE. 
      (1)   The terms GARBAGE, REFUSE, RUBBISH, SOLID WASTE, TRASH and WASTE
shall be identical in meaning, unless more specifically defined in this
chapter.
      (2)   All discarded and unwanted household and kitchen wastes, including,
but not limited to, food, food residues, and materials necessarily used for
packaging, storing, preparing, and consuming food items that are normally
defined as garbage, and all waste materials resulting from the usual routine or
domestic housekeeping, including, but not limited to, aluminum and steel cans;
glass containers; plastic containers; crockery and other containers; metal;
paper or all types, including newspapers, books, magazines and catalogs; boxes
and cartons; cold ashes; furnishings and fixtures; textiles and leather; toys
and recreational equipment; and similar items.
      (3)   All non-spoilable solid and semisolid wastes, including bulky
refuse, except for the following items:
         (a)   Liquids;
         (b)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed or in
sanitary sewer systems;
         (c)   Human waste, except for disposable diapers;
         (d)   Hazardous wastes;
         (e)   Medical wastes; and
         (f)   Large animal and farm animal waste.
   RECYCLABLES or RECYCLABLE MATERIAL(S).
      (1)   The following materials are ACCEPTABLE for recycling:
         (a)   Empty and clean plastic containers, bottles, tubs or jugs with
the recycle triangle number or 1-5, 7;
         (b)   Paper products such as newsprint, corrugated cardboard, chip
board, magazines, catalogues and mixed paper;
         (c)   Empty and clean aluminum, tin, bimetal and steel cans; and
         (d)   Clean glass.
      (2)   The following materials are NOT ACCEPTABLE for recycling and
include, but are not limited to, aerosol cans; latex or oil-based paint cans;
oil containers; Styrofoam; trash; plastic beverage rings and containers;
hazardous waste and medical waste containers; construction wastes and
demolition debris; and yard wastes.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, limbs, sticks, and other vegetative matter, plants or
trees and grass clippings.
(‘89 Code, § 70.01) (Am. Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed
8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city's Board or Public Works and Safety shall promulgate such rules,
regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the operation and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Executive Director of the Public Works Division, Valparaiso City
Services, shall be responsible for the administration and carrying into effect
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The authority for enforcing any and all provisions or this chapter shall be
the City's Board of Public Works and Safety, the Executive Director and/or his
or her designee and the City's Code Enforcement Department.
(Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.05 REFUSE/GARBAGE COLLECTION FEE.
   (A)   A refuse/garbage collection fee shall be assessed against each
residential customer and business customer.
   (B)   Refuse/garbage will not be picked up from and no fee will be charged
to the following property unless the owner elects to enter into a contract for
refuse/garbage collection service with the Public Works Division:
      (1)   Apartment complex.
      (2)   Business properties.
   (C)   Once per week refuse/garbage collection services may be offered to
business properties. Business customers are required to enter into a contract
for refuse/garbage collection services either with a private trash hauler or
with the city. The owner must request such service from the Public Works
Division and must generate no more refuse/garbage than can be contained in
three disposal units. The Board of Public Works and Safety may implement rules
and regulations concerning the collection of refuse/garbage from business
properties.
   (D)   The Public Works Division does not provide refuse/garbage collection
services to properties located on private roads.
   (E)   A refuse/garbage collection fee is hereby established as follows:
      (1)   For residential refuse/garbage collection, a flat rate amount of
$19.50 per month per disposal unit served.
      (2)   Residential refuse/garbage collection customers qualifying as low-
income residents shall be assessed a reduced flat rate fee of $9.75 per month.
To qualify as a low-income resident, a resident must have an income level no
greater than 150% of the federally established poverty guidelines. Residents
may qualify for the reduced monthly fee by applying for the reduction through
the Public Works Division.
      (3)   Additional disposal units will be charged at an additional $14.65
per month per disposal unit.
      (4)   For the collection of business customer refuse/garbage, a flat fee
of $24.40 per month for each disposal unit up to the maximum of three disposal
units per business customer.
      (5)   If a customer requires a return trip by the Public Works Division
for the collection of refuse/garbage through no fault of the city, a flat fee
of $45 per trip will be charged to the customer.
   (F)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited by the
City Clerk-Treasurer into the general fund of the city. An amount within the
city's general fund equivalent to the revenue(s) generated by the net fees
collected pursuant to this section shall be allocated solely and exclusively
used and appropriated for road maintenance and repair and sidewalk and pathway
installation, maintenance, and repair.
   (G)   The new refuse/garbage collection fee established by this section
shall be in force and effect as of the bills dated October 5, 2022 and October
25, 2022. All prior refuse/garbage collection fees established shall remain in
full force and effect until the beginning of the consumption period for the
billing date.
(Ord. 22-2005, passed 5-9-05; Am. Ord. 26-2005, passed 5-9-05; Am. Ord. 21-
2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22; Am. Ord. 21, 2023,
passed 6-26-23)
SCOPE OF WORK
§ 53.10 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The Public Works Division provides weekly curbside collection and
disposal-processing services of all residential and business customer refuse as
defined herein.
   (B)   The Public Works Division provides bi-weekly curbside collection and
disposal-processing services of all residential customer recyclables and yard
waste collection as defined herein and approved.
   (C)   The Public Works Division does not provide collection and disposal-
processing services for business customer recyclables and yard waste as defined
herein.
   (D)   Any changes to the boundaries or service area as the result of events
including, but not limited to, annexation; zoning actions; site plan approvals;
or construction, shall be communicated to and approved by the Board of Public
Works and Safety and/or the City's Common Council.
   (E)   All collection points receiving the aforementioned services shall be
required to prepare all materials for collection and/or disposal into proper
disposal units. The Public Works Division will collect only properly prepared
disposal units. Customers will be provided one disposal unit. Additional
disposal units may be provided for an additional fee as described in this
chapter.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The workday for the Public Works Division commences at 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   On official holidays no services will be provided. Official holidays
ore established by the Board of Public Works and Safety. Services will be
provided either on the working day previous or immediately following the
holiday, as determined by the Executive Director.
   (C)   Official holidays are:
      (1)   New Year's Day;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   Independence Day;
      (4)   Labor Day;
      (5)   Thanksgiving Day; and
      (6)   Christmas Day.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.12 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Recyclable materials, as defined herein, that are set out for
collection shall be collected and marketed by the city. Residential customer
may place amounts of accepted recyclable materials in a large yellow lid
wheeled disposal unit with a weight or volume no greater than that allowed for
by the disposal unit. One disposal unit will be provided per recyclable
collection point. A request for additional disposal units will be charged
$14.65 per month per requested unit up to the maximum of three disposal units
per residential customers. Plastic bags are never accepted for curbside pick-
up. Disposal units are the property of the city.
   (B)   When recyclable materials (including but not limited to; appliances,
scrap metal, aluminum/tin cans. and the like) are placed at curbside, they
become the property of the city and no person/persons other than city
employees/authorized city representatives or the residential user may remove
such materials, except as otherwise provided by the Board of Public Works and
Safety. Recyclable materials and containers may not be left at the curbside
collection point, or any point on the street for more than a 24-hour period.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 RECYCLING DISPOSAL UNITS.
   (A)   The Public Works Division shall provide to each residential customer
collection point a disposal unit to be used for the collection of recyclables.
An additional recycling disposal unit may be provided at a charge of $14.65 per
month per requested unit up to the maximum of three disposal units per
residential customer.
   (B)   The Executive Director shall have the authority to identify additional
recyclable articles under the solid waste management program.
   (C)   Recycling disposal units, as provided by the Public Works Division,
shall remain the property of the city.
   (D)   Recycling disposal units shall remain with the dwelling unit even upon
changes of customers or transfer of ownership.
   (E)   Recycling disposal units must be placed within five feet of the
collection point by 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled refuse collection day and
returned to storage by 7:00 p.m. on that day.
   (F)   Recycling disposal units may not be at the curbside collection point,
or any point, on the street for more than a 24-hour period.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Yard waste shall be collected throughout the city in a timely fashion
and on a schedule established by the Executive Director.
   (B)   Brush, tree limbs and/or branches must be cut to no more than four
feet in length and no more than three inches in diameter. The cut brush, tree
branches and/or limbs must be bundled with string or twine and each bundle
cannot exceed 50 pounds in weight.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.15 AUTOMATED COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Disposal units are the property of the city. If a disposal unit is
damaged through normal use it will be replaced and/or repaired at no cost. If
the disposal unit is damaged by fire, chemicals, vehicles or other abnormal
reasons, lost or stolen the full replacement cost of the disposal unit may be
charged to the customer requesting service.
   (B)   As property of the city, the disposal units are to remain at the
customer's property and must not be removed.
   (C)   Customers must use the disposal unit as provided by the city for
disposing of residential, retail, commercial and/or office refuse.
   (D)   Customers are responsible for cleaning the disposal unit.
   (E)   All refuse must be placed in the disposal unit.
   (F)   Disposal units must be placed within five feet of the curbside
collection point by 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled refuse collection day.
   (G)   Disposal units may not remain at the collection point, in front of a
building or residence for any period longer than 24 hours after the scheduled
refuse collection day.
   (H)   Disposal units must be at least three feet from any obstruction
(telephone poles, mail boxes, cars, and the like).
   (I)   Disposal unit lids must be closed.
   (J)   If the Executive Director determines the need of a second container,
one will be provided at the charge described in this chapter. If a customer has
two containers, they must be placed at least three feet apart.
   (K)   For pick-up of large bulk items and household construction and
demolition debris that will not fit into the disposal unit. The Public Works
Division must be notified 48 hours prior to regular refuse collection to
schedule an additional pick-up. A trip charge of $10 for each scheduled
additional pick-up and a $15 fee per cubic yard of refuse in excess of a
disposal unit will be assessed to the customer.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 REFUSE ORIGINATING OUTSIDE OF THE CITY.
   No person(s) shall dump refuse, yard wastes or other unwholesome items
generated outside of the city's corporate limits either anywhere within the
city or for collection and disposal-processing services by the Public Works
Division unless authorized by the Board of Public Works and Safety and/or the
Executive Director. At the discretion of the Board of Works and Public Safety,
a minimum of $500 fine per occurrence per day or not more than the maximum fine
allowed under state law per violation shall be assessed onto any person(s) who
willfully or negligently violates any provision of this section.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see
§
53.99
§ 53.17 DISPOSAL UNITS COLLECTED.
   Collection shall be the disposal units provided by the city and assigned to
the customer only. No other containers will be picked up, including refuse
outside or on top of the unit. Additional units are available upon request and
at the monthly rate as established by the Board of Public Works and Safety and
the City's Common Council.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.18 DEPOSITING ON PUBLIC STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to throw, put, or place any
trash, yard waste, garbage, and other unwholesome and/or waste materials into
and upon any of the streets, alleys, gutters, storm sewers, ditches or
sidewalks in the city.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see
§
53.99
§ 53.19 ACCUMULATION ON PRIVATE PREMISES; DISPOSAL UNITS.
   (A)   All persons having, making, or accumulating trash, yard waste, or
other unwholesome and waste materials, shall keep the same in disposal units
provided by the city and shall place the disposal units at the designated
location for weekly collection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to set any container larger than a city disposal
unit curbside, excepting that a dumpster shall be allowed for apartment
complexes, commercial, retail and office complexes when the city disposal unit
(s) is/are not acceptable in size and/or cost or as otherwise approved by the
Executive Director.
   (C)   Dumpsters are permitted for construction debris and large volume
waste. Dumpsters may not be placed on city streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way
without written permission from the Executive Director.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20 CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
   (A)   Household construction and demolition debris not to exceed three cubic
yards may be placed in suitable containers that are in good condition, have
secure handles for lifting, are water tight sufficient to keep out rain water,
do not exceed 30 gallons and/or 30 pounds or in bundles not exceeding two feet
in diameter by four feet in length. The Executive Director or designee may
determine that the amount of construction and/or demolition debris is too much
for the city to pick up and may require a private hauler be used to remove the
debris. A fee, as established by the Board of Public Works and Safety, is
charged for the collection of construction debris and may be paid at the Public
Works Division.
   (B)   Construction and demolition debris may not be at the curbside
collection point or any point on the street for more than a 24-hour period.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 BULK ITEMS.
   Bulk items will be picked up on the designated collection day and at the
designated location. Bulk items pick-up must be requested either by telephone
or e-mail at least 24 hours prior to the collection day.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.22 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED APPLIANCES.
   (A)   Abandoning or leaving freezers, refrigerators, iceboxes, ice chests,
and other major appliances is subject to the regulations as set forth in this
chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any freezers,
refrigerators, iceboxes, ice chest, dryer, washer, or any other major
appliances having a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or organization shall abandon any
refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest, or other appliance anyplace within
the city.
   (C)   No person shall leave any refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest, or
other appliance any place out-of-doors without the doors removed.
   (D)   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent individuals from being
trapped in a refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest, or other major
appliance.
   (E)   Any person, firm, corporation, or organization that shall desire to
have a refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest, or other major appliance
removed must:
      (1)   Request a pick-up from the Public Works Division at least 24 hours
prior to collection day;
      (2)   Remove the door(s); and
      (3)   Place the refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest. or other major
appliance within three feet of the curbside.
   (F)   Appliances will only be picked up on regular trash collection day.
   (G)   Appliances may not be left at the curbside collection point, or any
point on the street for more than a 24-hour period.
   (H)   At the discretion of the Board of Works and Public Safety, any person
(s) who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this section shall
be assessed a $500 minimum fine per occurrence per day or not more than the
maximum fine allowed under state law per violation.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23 DUMPSTERS.
   Any person who desires to place a dumpster on public property must obtain a
permit from the Public Works Division. The permit will be issued based on the
following criteria:
   (A)   Prior to the locating of any dumpster on or in a public street or
alley in the city, all refuse companies must obtain a permit from the Executive
Director. Permits shall be issued for a maximum period of ten days and are
renewable for additional periods of ten days at the discretion of the Executive
Director. Dumpsters may not be placed within 50 feet of an intersection or in
such a manner and fashion so as to cause traffic safety problems by
unreasonably blocking the normal flow and pattern of traffic. No dumpster may
be placed so as to block a public sidewalk.
   (B)   The refuse company shall provide barricades and/or traffic control
devices meeting the minimum criteria contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways in the State of Indiana. Refuse
companies shall be responsible for installing and maintaining the required
barricades and/or traffic control devices.
   (C)   The refuse company shall sign a liability statement assuming all risks
associated with the placement of the dumpster in any public street or alley and
shall provide to the Executive Director proof of liability insurance which
shall name the city as a co-insured with liability limits determined by the
Executive Director.
   (D)   Failure to follow any of these policies shall be reason for denial or
revocation of a permit and a pattern or practice of violating these regulations
shall be grounds for denial of future permits to a refuse company.
   (E)   A refuse company may appeal any decision of the Executive Director
concerning these regulations to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24 CONTRACTORS.
   The city will not clean up or pick up any form of yard waste, construction
and demolition debris or refuse left on a property by a contractor or their
agent.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see
§
53.99
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
§ 53.35 FEES; REVENUES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall charge a fee in support of
the City's Solid Waste Management & Recycling Program. The fees shall be
reasonable and periodically reviewed In order to sustain the solid waste
collection and disposal activities and services provided by the Public Works
Division.
   (B)   Fees will be charged for the following items:
      (1)   Refuse in excess of the provided disposal unit;
      (2)   Monthly refuse collection; and
      (3)   Disposal units - replacement for abnormal use.
   (C)   Fees will be charged for the bi-weekly curbside collection and
disposal-processing services for residential customer recyclables.
   (D)   The solid waste management fee shall be payable monthly and shall be
billed, whenever practical to do so, with the Valparaiso City Services Utility
Bill associated with charges for water, wastewater, stormwater and other
services.
   (E)   The solid waste management fee imposed under this chapter may be
temporarily waived for the period of time, as is concurrent with the period of
the temporary cessation of water service. The temporary waiver for fees imposed
under this chapter will cease upon resumption of water services.
   (F)   The solid waste management fees imposed under this chapter may only be
refunded for the period of time that is concurrent with the period of the
temporary cessation of service, owing to extended absence for the residential
customers. In order to determine the length of time for which a refund may be
made, the following apply:
      (1)   No refund will be given for any month in which there is evidence of
more than minimum water consumption; and
      (2)   No refund will be given without reasonable documentation of actual
absence, which may include but not be limited to out-of-state utility bills,
active bank accounts and the like.
   (G)   The solid waste management fee and other fees shall be approved by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, and charged according to the published
schedule and shall remain in effect as indicated until the time as they may be
modified or rescinded by passage and adoption of an ordinance, pursuant to the
terms of Indiana law.
   (H)   Fees.
VALPARAISO REFUSE AND RECYCLING FEE SCHEDULE
 Current Rate New Rate
VALPARAISO REFUSE AND RECYCLING FEE SCHEDULE
                                         Current Rate    New Rate
Standard Monthly Fees
   Residential - Refuse + recycling   $12             $19.50
   Residential - Low income qualified $6              $9.75
   Additional refuse and/or recycling $9 per unit per $14.85 per unit per
units                                    month           month
   Business patron refuse             $15             $24.40
Miscellaneous Fees
   Return trip fee                                    $45
   Large bulk/household construction                  $15 per cu. yd. + $10
items                                                    pick- up-fee
   Illegal dumping*                                   $500 per occurrence
                                                         per day*
   Disposal unit replacement                          Actual cost of
                                                         container
*At the discretion of the Valparaiso Board of Works and Public Safety. A
minimum fine of $500 up to the maximum as allowable by state law.
 
   (I)   The Board of Public Works and Safety sets the cost for mulch sales and
disposal.
   (J)   Residential customers choosing to not use the city's solid waste
management service are still required to pay the monthly fee.
   (K)   Revenues from fees and charges collected under this chapter shall be
deposited into the city's general fund and shall be used for road maintenance
and repair and sidewalk and pathway installation, maintenance, and repair, as
well as the purchase of equipment, supplies, transfer station fees and other
expenses as directly related to the cost of collecting, handling, transporting
and disposing of refuse and recyclables by the City's Public Works Division.
   (L)   Revenues from fees and charges collected under this chapter shall be
deposited into the city's general fund and shall be used exclusively for the
purchase of equipment, supplies, transfer station fees and other expenses as
directly related to the cost of collecting, handling, transporting and
disposing of refuse and recyclables by the City's Public Works Division.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22; Am. Ord. 21, 2023, passed 6-26-23) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.36 EXTRA SERVICES.
   The Executive Director may designate "clean up days" in which extra trash,
bulk item pick-up and/or recycling services are provided by the Public Works
Division. Dates, times, rules, and guidelines may be established and promoted
by the Public Works Division. Extra services may be provided for neighborhood
cleanup, roadside cleanup, community festivals and events.
(Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any provisions of this chapter are subject to a $500 fine per
occurrence per day and are administered through the City's Ordinance Violations
Bureau.
(Ord. 21-2005, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord. 21-2012, passed 8-27-12; Am. Ord. 19,
2022, passed 9-12-22)
CHAPTER 54: ILLICIT/ILLEGAL DISCHARGES AND/OR
CONNECTIONS TO STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Authority and purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   General matters
   
54.04   Discharge and connection prohibitions
   
54.05   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
54.06   Monitoring of discharges
   
54.07   Prevention, control and reduction of pollutants
   
54.08   Watercourse protection
   
54.09   Spill or release of pollutants
   
54.10   Enforcement I
   
54.11   Appeal of Enforcement I actions
   
54.12   Enforcement II
§ 54.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C.
36-1-4-11, 36-7-4-100 et seq., and all acts supplemental and amendatory
thereto. This authority provides for the administration, enforcement, and
amendment of this chapter for controlling illicit discharges and/or connections
to watercourses in the city.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city and the surrounding
areas through the regulation of non-storm water discharges to the storm
drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and
state law. This chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of
pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to
comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter; and
      (4)   To provide for means of enforcement of the requirements herein, and
issuance of penalties for violations thereof.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or wastewater disposal, or drainage from
raw materials storage. BMPs may be structural or non-structural.
   CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Indiana, or its designees as determined by the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
54.04.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
to enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system
from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection
had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized
enforcement agency; or,
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from any site or facility to the
storm drain system, which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, 122.26(b)(14).
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Activities subject to city building or erosion
control permits, these include construction projects resulting in land
disturbance of 3,000 square feet or more. Such activities include but are not
limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, and demolition.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets,
catchbasins, curbs, gutters, ditches, natural or man-made channels, or storm
sewers) owned and/or operated by the city and designed or used for collecting
or conveying storm water, and which is not used for collecting or conveying
sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid, solid wastes, yard wastes, and soil;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned or operated facilities by which storm
water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
sewers, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices(BMPs) and activities to be implemented by a
person or business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site
and the actions required to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm
water, storm water conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum
extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.03 GENERAL MATTERS.
   (A)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all water entering the
storm drain system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands within the
boundaries and jurisdiction of the city, unless explicitly exempted by the
city.
   (B)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be
severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or
the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid (unconstitutional or unenforceable) by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Administration. The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city
may be delegated by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city to persons
or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
   (D)   Standards are minimums. The standards set forth herein and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter are minimum standards: therefore this chapter does not
intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be
no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.04 DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Illegal discharges.
      (1)   Discharges prohibited. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the municipal storm drain system, watercourses or water bodies,
any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows.
      (2)   Discharges exempt. The following discharges are exempt from
discharge prohibitions established by this chapter:
         (a)   Diverted stream flows;
         (b)   Rising ground water;
         (c)   Ground water infiltration to storm drains;
         (d)   Springs;
         (e)   Natural riparian habitats or wetland flows; and
         (f)   Fire fighting activities.
      (3)   Conditional exemption of discharges. The following discharges are
exempt from discharge prohibitions established by this chapter as long as the
waters contain no deleterious substances and the physical discharge does not
cause the erosion of soil or suspension of any deleterious material:
         (a)   Water main flushing (must not cause erosion);
         (b)   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
         (c)   Pumped ground water;
         (d)   Foundation or footing drains or sump pumps;
         (e)   Air conditioning condensation;
         (f)   Washing of non-commercial vehicles;
         (g)   Swimming pools (less than one ppm residual chlorine);
         (h)   Agricultural runoff from sites employing conservation practices;
         (i)   Cold water (or hot water with prior permission from city) street
washing or cosmetic cleansing;
         (j)   Discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary
to protect public health and safety;
         (k)   Dye testing with notification to the city prior to the test; and
         (l)   Discharges permitted under written NPDES permit, waiver, or EPA
waste discharge order, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with
the permit, waiver or order.
   (B)   Illicit connections. The construction, use, maintenance or continued
existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited. This
prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in
the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or
practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
   (C)   Suspension of MS4 access.
      (1)   Emergency situations. The city may, without prior notice, suspend
MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which presents, or may present, imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply
with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement
agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to
the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (2)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city through the
Board of Public Works and Safety for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises for which
access has been terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval
of the city.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.05 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit IAC 327 15-6 (Rule 6) shall comply with all provisions
of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit must be acceptable to the
city prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. Violations of said permit
may be enforced under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.06 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   Entry. The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures
in place, which require proper identification and clearance before entry into
its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow
access to representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
      (2)   Access and records. Facility operators shall allow the city ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling
and testing discharges for pollutants.
      (3)   Access obstructed. Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe
and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall promptly
be removed by the operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (4)   Access delayed. Delays in allowing the city access to a site or
facility is a violation of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a
facility with a discharge of storm water commits an offense if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
      (5)   Access denied. Denial of access to any premises or facility that
discharges storm water is a violation of this chapter. If there is reasonable
cause to believe that an illicit discharge or illegal connection exists on the
premises then the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to other
enforcement actions provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Monitoring by city. The city shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's storm water discharge.
   (D)   Monitoring by discharger. The city has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.07 PREVENTION, CONTROL AND REDUCTION OF POLLUTANTS.
   The city may identify or approve the use of best management practices (BMPs)
for any activity, operation, or facility, which may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the U.S. The owner or operator of any residential, institutional, governmental,
commercial or industrial facility shall provide, at their own expense,
reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or
other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the
use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person
responsible for a property or premise, which is, may be, or may become the
source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the discharge
of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm
water associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be
deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be
part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit or a city erosion control
permit.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.08 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning, leasing, renting or occupying property through which a
watercourse passes, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures or their contents will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.09 SPILL OR RELEASE OF POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   Corrective action required. Notwithstanding other requirements of law,
as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible
for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any
known, suspected or potential release of materials which are resulting or may
result in illegal discharges or pollutants discharging into storm water, the
storm drain system, or water of the U.S., said person shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release, and to
prevent any additional future release.
   (B)   Notification and records required. In the event of a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies by calling 911. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials,
said person shall notify the city in person at 166 Lincolnway, or by telephone
at 462-1161 as soon as practical, but in no case later than the next business
day. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.10 ENFORCEMENT I.
   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may:
   (A)   Notice of violation and order for compliance.
      (1)   Issue written notice to the owner and/or responsible person, or
their representatives. Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (b)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (c)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; and/or
         (f)   The cessation of work until the violation is corrected.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice may further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore the affected property
within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated
governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator.
   (B)   Levy fine(s). Issue fines against said person and/or owner pursuant to
the provisions of the Violations Bureau in the municipal code.
   (C)   Withhold permits. The city may refuse to issue permits such as erosion
control, right-of-way cut, and/or site permits, and may request that the
Building Commissioner also withhold building permits, from the person
responsible for the violation. The permits to be withheld may be for sites
other than that where the violations have occurred.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.11 APPEAL OF ENFORCEMENT I ACTIONS.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation, fine or having permits withheld
pursuant to the provisions of §
54.10, may appeal the determination of the city. The notice of appeal must be
made to the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) and must be received by Planning
Department staff within ten days from the date of receipt of the notice. The
appeal shall be according to the procedures set by the BZA. A hearing on the
appeal before the BZA shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal. The decision of the BZA shall be final.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 54.12 ENFORCEMENT II.
   (A)   City to correct/abate, cost to owner/responsible person.
      (1)   Corrective action. If a violation has not been corrected pursuant
to the conditions set forth in the notice of violation, then, representatives
of the city may enter upon the subject's private property and take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above.
      (2)   Notice of payment due. Within 30 days after abatement of the
violation, the city shall notify the owner of the property or responsible
person in writing of the cost of abatement, including administrative and legal
costs. The owner or responsible party shall pay said amount within 30 days of
the date of the invoice unless a longer time for payment is stipulated in the
invoice. If the city allows a period for payment greater than 30 days, the
payments shall then be subject to interest at a rate not greater than allowed
by statute.
      (3)   Lien on property. If the amount due is not paid within the 30 days
or the time stipulated in the invoice, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment and any interest. The Clerk Treasurer shall file
and record said lien with Porter County as provided by statute.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a
person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution. Any person, as defined in this chapter, that has
violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal
prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to a
criminal penalty of $1,000 per violation per day and/or imprisonment for a
period of time as set by the court.
   (D)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   (E)   Recover costs. The city may recover all attorney's fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (F)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 40-2006, passed 9-11-06)
CHAPTER 55: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL
Section
Floodplain Management
   
55.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   General provisions
   
55.04   Administration
   
55.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
55.06   Variance procedures
   
55.07   Severability
Stormwater Runoff Control
   
55.20   General
   
55.21   Definitions
   
55.22   Drainage plans required
   
55.23   Regulations
   
55.24   Waiver from requirements
   
55.25   Appeal process
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
§ 55.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-
4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the power to local government units to control land
use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the Common Council of the city does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the city by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this section are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE.  Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM.
      (1)   Zone A.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   Zone AE and A1-A30.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   Zone AO.  Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   Zone AH.  Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are one to three feet.
Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within
this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   Zone AR.  Areas that result from the decertification of a
previously accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the
process of being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood
insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   Zone A99.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes.  Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (appurtenant structure). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (to an existing structure). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this section or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain provisions for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).  A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, emergency response and
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT.  The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community's first floodplain
provision.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain provision.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD).  The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).  An official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This section and other zoning provisions,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also  referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE.  Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. (As related to variances of this chapter) The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Common
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space, provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at or above the
BFE and construction meets requirements of this chapter; or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total net area of one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER.  The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix
assigned by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel,
and the letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first
revision.)
   MARKET VALUE.  The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between
a willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate
market will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value),
or adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929 (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
provision.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain provision.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD).  The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter “A” is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.  The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter “A” is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.  Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).  An official republication of a community's
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.  Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.  Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION.  A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE . A vehicle that is the following:
       (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
55.03(B). The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms: BASE FLOOD, ONE-
PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316.  The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the city subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the city
are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city
dated January 6, 1983, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Porter County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for
Porter County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated April 1,
1982, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are
shown on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al - A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement or permanent construction  of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION.  The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this section. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this section is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.  The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88), or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE.  The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual probability of flooding is less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A.  See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed in this subsection. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering study needs
to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs of Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the city dated July 6, 1982 and the
corresponding Flood Boundary Floodway Map dated January 6, 1983, as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the remaining SFHAs delineated as an A Zone on the FIRM of the city
shall be, according to the best data available, as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   For the SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Porter County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the city:
         (a)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
studied SFHAs shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
Flood Insurance Study of Porter County dated October 1, 1981 and the
corresponding Flood Boundary Floodway Map dated April 1, 1982, as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date; and
         (b)   If the SFHA is delineated as Zone A on the County Flood
Insurance Rate Map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A Floodplain
Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
section prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this section and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this section and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This section is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this section and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and
the floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation.  In the interpretation and application of this
section, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this section does not create any liability on the part of the city,
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this section or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
   (I)   Penalties for violation. Failure to obtain a Floodplain Development
Permit in the SFHA or failure to comply with the requirements of a Floodplain
Development Permit or conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this section. All violations shall be considered a common nuisance
and be treated as such in accordance with the provisions of the municipal code
for the city. The city's Floodplain Administrator may, for any violation of
this chapter, levy a fine against the violator(s) of up to the maximum amount
allowed by
Chapter 37 of this code for each occurrence. The Floodplain Administrator shall
notify the violator(s) of such fine, in writing, on a form approved by the
Board. The violator shall pay the fine through the Local Ordinance Violations
Bureau. The Floodplain Administrator may levy a fine for each and every day the
violation is continued.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of administrator. The Common Council of the city hereby
appoints the Stormwater Engineer to administer and implement the provisions of
this section and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproof;
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or related as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor or
floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of
the lowest floor or floodproof elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized
for a particular structure, said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holders' risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this section. The Administrator is
further authorized to render interpretations of this section, which are
consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this section have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect any inventory damaged structures in SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
55.05(E) and (G)(1) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such
authorization (either copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this section;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
55.04(B);
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
55.04(B);
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this section shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the section, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs the following provisions are required:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces;
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the EPG;
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this section shall meet
the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this section; and
      (10)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure that is not in compliance with the provisions of this section, shall
be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended or replaced.
      (11)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume
of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the
BFE shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
         (a)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
         (b)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to
take place outside of, but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the
excavated volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the
same immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located,
will be accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to
ponding when not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
         (c)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading
to the floodplain.
         (d)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable
enough to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
         (e)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating that the fill and excavation comply
with this section.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
55.05(A), all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from
flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor
area greater than 400 square feet.
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
            1.   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or
exceeds 50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the
land);
            2.   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community's first floodplain provision.
         (c)    Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days.
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This section does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base
flood elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
55.05(B)(4).
      (3)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Structures located in
all A Zones may be floodproof in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
55.04(C)(10); and
         (b)    Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements
of elevated structures that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the base flood elevations shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade);
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure's originally approved design shall be presented as a condition of
issuance of the final Certificate of Occupancy.
      (5)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test Method;
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the structure before sloping below the FPG.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; and
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawlspace. A
residential or nonresidential structure may be constructed with a crawlspace
located below the flood protection grade provided that the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. Provide a minimum of two openings having a total
net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area. The bottom of the openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at or above the
base flood elevation;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection grade.
      (7)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured
homes to be placed on a site;
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood.
         (b)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated
earlier in this section.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (D)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to
the extent possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways. Located within SFHAs, established
in §
55.05(B) are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in a
floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that if
fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior approval
(construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.)
      (1)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in a floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local Floodplain
Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in §
55.05 of this chapter have been met. The Floodplain Development Permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
      (2)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory
flood more than 0.14 of one foot.
      (3)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe. If the site is located in an
identified fringe, then the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit provided the provisions contained in §
55.05 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes. 
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
Flood Protection Grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
construction in a floodway permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a Floodplain Development Permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the Floodplain Development Permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §
55.05 of this chapter have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, fringe and 100-year flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in §
55.05 of this chapter have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Public Works
and Safety as established by Common Council of the city shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision as provided in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)    The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D) Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
55.05(E) and (G)(1) of this chapter may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
55.05(E) and (G)(1) of this chapter will require a permit from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §
55.05(B), may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the
cost of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation (See division (E) of this
section).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (See division (E) of
this section).
   (E)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of "historic structures" upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this section, the Board of Public Works and
Safety may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of the chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of this chapter.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL
§ 55.20 GENERAL.
   (A)   The purpose to this subchapter is to provide for the adequate control
of stormwater runoff so that certain natural resources are preserved and the
quality of the water and the health, safety and welfare of the residents is not
compromised.
   (B)   Any new development, or construction, addition or renovation requiring
a building permit from the city, shall provide stormwater runoff controls as
provided herein. Appropriate reference shall be made to the latest revision of
the Specifications and Standards for Acceptance of Municipal Improvements for
specific requirements.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   BY-PASS. A channel formed in the topography of the surface of the earth to
carry stormwater runoff through or around a specific area.
   CITY ENGINEER.  The City Engineer or his authorized representative.
   COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the city.
   COMMON SWALE OR DITCH. A swale or ditch that conveys runoff from sites with
multiple ownerships.
   DETENTION BASIN. A structure or area of land that is configured to
temporarily store a portion of the runoff from a site. The basin has a
discharge control structure that allows all the stored runoff to drain away to
a drainage course.
   DETENTION BASIN, DRY BOTTOM. A detention basin that is designed to drain
completely dry.
   DETENTION BASIN, WET BOTTOM. A detention basin that is designed to
permanently contain a volume of water below the storage volume.
   DISCHARGE. The water released from a detention basin, drainage course or
pump.
   DISCHARGE CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure that, by virtue of its size and/or
its configuration, controls or regulates the rate of flow through it.
   DISCHARGE RATE.  The flow rate of the water released from a detention basin,
drainage course or pump.
   DRAINAGE CALCULATIONS.  The mathematical calculation and supporting data
required for the analysis and/or design of drainage course and/or detention
basins.
   DRAINAGE CONTROL MEASURE. The combinations of grading, swales, ditches,
sewers, detention basins, etc. that are proposed to be used to control the
runoff from and/or through a site.
   DRAINAGE COURSE.  A sewer, swale or ditch that conveys runoff.
   DRAINAGE PLAN.  A drawing showing the drainage control measure to be
provided on a site. The drainage calculations, when required, shall be included
as a part of the drainage plan.
   GROUNDWATER RECHARGE.  The process of returning water to the aquifer
underlying the site.
   PASS THROUGH RUNOFF.  The runoff that enters the site from other locations
in the tributary watershed.
   RETENTION BASIN.  A structure or area of land that is designed to store a
portion of the runoff from a site, has no discharge control structure, and
relies on evaporation, transpiration and percolation to remove the stored
runoff.
    RUNOFF. That portion of rainfall or pump discharge that is not taken up by
vegetation, absorbed into the ground, or evaporated.
   STANDARDS.  The latest revision of the city’s Specifications and Standards
for Acceptance of Municipal Improvements.
   STORAGE VOLUME.  The volume of storage provided in a detention or retention
basin.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED.  The entire area that contributes runoff to a point.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.22 DRAINAGE PLANS REQUIRED.
   Drainage plans are required for all activities covered under this chapter.
All drainage plans must be approved by the City Engineer before permits are
issued or formal approvals granted. Said approval by the City Engineer shall
mean that the plan appears to meet the requirements of the city and shall not
be interpreted to provide any guarantee or warrantee against damage or
inconvenience by flooding or the runoff related problem.
   (A)   Individual one and two unit residential sites.
      (1)   By virtue of applying for a building permit the applicant
acknowledges that he or she is familiar with the characteristics of the site
and the lands adjacent and that the stormwater control measures proposed are
appropriate for those characteristics and the proposed house.
      (2)   Drainage plans may be shown on a sketch prepared by the applicant.
It should be drawn as accurately as possible and clearly show all the
stormwater control measures proposed for the site. Arrows may be used to show
the direction of surface flow. Locations of swales, downspouts and sump pump
discharges should be shown with their direction of flow. Specific elevations
are not required.
   (B)   Multiple units residential, commercial, and industrial sites.
      (1)   Drainage plans and drainage calculations shall be prepared by a
Registered Professional Engineer, Land Surveyor, Architect or Landscape
Architect licensed to practice in the State of Indiana. Drainage plans and
drainage calculations for sites over three acres in size, or with unique and/or
sensitive drainage issues shall be prepared by a Registered Professional
Engineer or Land Surveyor licensed to practice in the State of Indiana. The
designer of the drainage plan shall be liable for any shortcomings or
inadequacies in the plan that may reveal themselves after construction.
      (2)   Drainage plans shall show topographic features, utilities, and
locations and existing and proposed elevations of the ground, pavements,
drainage course, drainage structures, detention basins, finished floors, and
other items that might impact drainage. The drainage plan shall be of
sufficient detail to serve as construction drawings and may be incorporated
with the site plans required under other sections of this chapter or other
provisions of the city.
      (3)   Drainage calculations shall be provided for the analysis of
existing drainage courses and/or the design of any proposed drainage course
and/or detention basin and discharge control structures. The calculations shall
be in a form and shall use methods as required by the City Engineer and as
spelled out in the standards.
      (4)   The drainage plan and calculations shall be thorough enough to
allow a complete analysis of the expected impacts on the site and the areas
downstream.
   (C)   Subdivisions, condominium developments, and Planned Unit Developments
(PUD).
      (1)   Reference should be made to the appropriate sections of this
chapter or other appropriate provisions of the city.
      (2)   Drainage plans shall comply with the requirements of division (B)
of this section. The drainage plan shall be presented in concept at the pre-
preliminary review stage of the city's approvals process. If the concept is
approved, the drainage plan shall be presented in sufficient detail at the
Primary Plat Stage to be able to make sound judgments concerning the adequacy
of the proposed system. The drainage plan shall be presented in final form
prior to the Secondary Plat (or equivalent) Stage. The drainage plan and
drainage calculations must be approved by the City Engineer prior to, or
simultaneous with, the approval of any construction plans.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.23 REGULATIONS.
   General requirements for drainage follow. More specific requirements are per
the standards.
   (A)   Two systems provided. Whenever drainage control measures are proposed
or considered, two systems shall be provided, the Minor System and the Major
System.
      (1)   Minor System. The Minor System shall be designed to convey the
runoff from the more frequently experienced rainfall events. Generally this
system is designed for the storm with the ten-year frequency of recurrence. The
system shall consist of swales, inlets, sewers and ditches.
      (2)   Major System.  The Major System shall be designed to convey and
manage the runoff from the least frequently experienced rainfall events. This
system shall be designed for the storm with the 100-year frequency of
recurrence. The system shall consist of swales, inlets, sewers, ditches, and
streets. It shall be designed to safely convey and manage the runoff and to
minimize property damage.
   (B)   Pass through runoff.
      (1)   All drainage plans shall accommodate the runoff that enters the
site from other locations in the tributary watershed. The runoff may be
diverted around the site or accommodated directly in the design of the site
storm runoff control measures. In no event shall off site drainage be blocked
or restricted by the proposed development.
      (2)   When appropriate, and at the request of the City Engineer, the pass
through runoff shall be directed through the site detention basins to provide
downstream protection from the storms with the more frequent recurrence
interval. When this is required the discharge structure and overflow shall be
designed to accommodate the pass through runoff.
   (C)   Exit characteristics.
      (1)   The characteristics of the runoff exiting a site shall not differ
substantially after development from those that existed before development. Any
runoff concentrated through the course of development into a sewer, culvert,
swale or ditch shall only be discharged into a defined and established drainage
course.
      (2)   It may be necessary to improve the drainage course downstream from
a site so that it is capable of conveying the increase runoff from the
development. This may be necessary to handle either the rate of discharge or
the duration of discharge.
   (D)   Public and private systems. During the course of the planning and
design of the runoff control measures it shall be determined and documented
whether the measures are to be public or private.
      (1)   Public systems. The public system shall be maintained by the city
after their acceptance by the city. Generally, public systems shall be those in
and/or under public streets, or those conveying the runoff from large areas of
the city.
      (2)   Private systems.  The private systems shall be privately
maintained. Generally private systems shall be those in and under private
streets and private sites. Rear year swales, ditches that convey the runoff
from individual sites, or development detention basins constructed as runoff
control measure for a development, shall be private systems.
         (a)   Provisions shall be made for the maintenance of private systems.
On an individual site the owner shall maintain the system. In a development, a
property owners association, or some other vehicle, shall be established to
provide for said maintenance. Documentation of the provisions for maintenance
shall be provided to the City Engineer and accepted by him if, in his opinion,
they are appropriate.
         (b)   If the system is not maintained so that it functions in the
manner that it was designed and constructed and thereby threatens to affect or
damage properties owned by others, or is not in compliance with any agreement
between the owner and the city, the Board may, after notice by registered mail
to the owner of the property:
            1.   Cause the necessary repairs to be completed. The cost of said
repairs may be assessed to the property owner(s) through the city's assessment
process; and/or
            2.   Levy a fine against the owner of the property of up to $50 for
each violation and/or occurrence, each day constituting a separate occurrence.
The City Engineer shall provide written notification of the alleged violation
and fine to the owner(s) of the property. The notice shall be delivered in
person to the owner or his representative, or sent by registered mail. The
administration of the procedure shall be through the city's Local Ordinance
Violations Bureau. The Board may levy a fine for each and every day that the
violation is continued.
         (c)   Recorded easements shall be provided over all components of
public and private systems. The easements shall run to the public and the city
for purposes of maintaining the facilities located in said easements. However,
the establishment of said easements shall in no manner obligate the city to
maintain private systems but shall, in the event of an emergency, allow the
city to enter and make temporary emergency repairs to the system. The cost of
said emergency repairs may be billed to the entity responsible for the
maintenance of the system.
   (E)   Individual sites.
      (1)   On individual sites proposed for development the runoff control
measures shall specifically provide for adequate surface slopes away from all
building structures. They shall also provide for the appropriate elevation of
said structure as it may relate to ground water elevations and/or flood
elevations from adjacent streams, ponds, detention basins, or street low
points.
      (2)   The location and configuration of downspouts and/or sump pump
discharges shall be such that the runoff does not damage or inconvenience
adjacent properties. In general, downspouts and sump pump discharge shall be
directed towards the front or rear of the site and not at the adjacent site
property lines. In no event shall downspouts, sump pumps, footing tiles, or any
other surface or ground water source be discharged into the sanitary sewer
system.
   (F)   Controlled discharge required.
      (1)   The runoff from any combined roof and pavement area over 5,000
square feet, or pavement area alone over 3,500 square feet, shall be controlled
and managed in some manner, approved by the City Engineer, before it discharges
to the city street or sewer system.
      (2)   Single and duplex residential construction shall be exempt from the
strict requirements of this division. However, the runoff from said
construction shall be controlled in a manner that minimized problems to
adjacent properties.
   (G)   Storm sewers, structures, ditches, swales, and culverts. All storm
sewers, structures, ditches, swales, and culverts shall be designed and
constructed according to the requirements of the standards and sound
engineering practice. They shall be designed to safely convey the appropriate
designed flows and to minimize maintenance and repair needs.
   (H)   Retention basins. Because of the predominant soil characteristics in
the city, retention basins are not allowed.
   (I)   Detention basins. Detention basins shall be required for any site
proposed for development except individual single and duplex residential
construction. The requirements for detention maybe waived by the City Engineer
if provisions are made in the overall development for appropriate runoff
management.
      (1)   General. Detention basins shall be designed with a consideration
for the welfare of the residents who live in the vicinity and the safety of
those who might be attracted to the facility. Basins and their appurtenances
shall be designed to require minimum maintenance. Slopes should be flat enough
for safe walking and mowing. The areas designed for detention basins shall be
designed to be used for other purposes such as recreation, man-made wetlands,
open space, or other uses. The use of fences shall be kept to a minimum. The
designer is encouraged to make the facility as aesthetically pleasing as
possible. Slopes should vary. Straight lines should be avoided. Long sweeping
curves should be used to make the facility appear natural and part of the
overall landscape. Basins should be landscaped with tress and shrubs
appropriate to that location.
      (2)   Storage volume and discharge rate. Detention basins shall provide a
storage volume adequate to contain the runoff from the developed site that
results from a storm event with a 100-year frequency of recurrence. The
discharge rate through the discharge control structure shall not exceed the
runoff rate from the undeveloped site that results from a storm with a two-year
frequency of recurrence.
      (3)   Dry bottom basins. Dry bottom basins shall be designed with
adequate bottom slopes to minimize standing water after the stored runoff has
been discharged. Underdrains may be required to provide additional drainage,
particularly in the vicinity of the discharge control structure.
      (4)   Wet bottom basins.
         (a)   Wet bottom basins shall be designed to provide a permanent water
depth adequate to retard weed growth and to sustain aquatic life. They shall
incorporate provisions for walkways around the perimeter of the pool to allow
for recreational use and for access for weed control and emergency response.
The ground slopes below pool level shall be sufficiently flat to allow an
individual who falls in to recover and walk from the water without great
difficulty.
         (b)   The design of this type of basin shall consider the need for
shoreline bank protection from wave action and the need for a supplemental
water supply for use during periods of low rainfall. Wet bottom basins
generally present more difficult maintenance requirements than do the dry
bottom basins.
         (c)   These requirements include, but are not limited to, weed
control, algae control possible wildlife management, erosion control at the
shore line, and maintenance of the supplemental water supply equipment. The
developer shall make adequate provision for these items.
      (5)   Paved area basins. Paved areas such as parking lots may be used for
detention basins where appropriate. The basins shall be designed so that the
maximum stored water depth is not likely to cause damage to vehicles or
adjacent property. Generally, the basin(s) should be located in the more remote
areas of the lot and/or in the service drives if possible.
      (6)   Underground basins. Underground detention basins are permitted but
should be used only when no other options are available. Underground basins
shall be designed using vaults, pipe networks, or other means that allow access
for inspection, cleaning, and/or maintenance. Storage of runoff in the voids of
aggregate beds shall be avoided.
      (7)   Discharge control structure and overflow. Discharge control
structures shall be designed to be safe, simple, and easily maintained. Their
design shall be such that they are not subject to clogging with debris. They
shall not rely on manual operation of valves or gates. Wherever possible they
shall be designed to provide storage from the runoff generated by storm events
with the greater frequencies of recurrence, as well as the major storms.
   (J)   Renovation of existing developed sites. There are certain sites in the
city that were developed without providing appropriate drainage control
measures. If any renovations or additions that require a building permit are
proposed for these locations the applicant shall also provide reasonable
drainage control measures appropriate for the site.
   (K)   Erosion and siltation. Wherever possible, drainage control measures
shall be designed to help control erosion and situation. Pass through runoff
shall be diverted around the site to the greatest extent practical. Detention
basins shall be undercut to provide sediment traps during the construction
phase of the development. After the development is completed, the basins shall
be cleaned and the ground surfaces brought to final grade.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.24 WAIVER FROM REQUIREMENTS.
   The Commission or the Board may grant waivers from the requirements of this
subchapter, if, in their opinion, the granting of the waiver will not
jeopardize public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
§ 55.25 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person or firm affected by the exercise of any discretionary
authority delegated by this chapter to any official of the city, and who
objects to the decision made or action taken by such official, shall be
entitled to a hearing before the Board of Public Works and Safety upon such
objection.
   (B)   The person or firm desiring such hearing shall file a written
statement of his/her objections with the Clerk-Treasurer. The person or firm
making the objections shall be given notice of the time, place and date of said
hearing at least ten days before the hearing time. The person or firm objecting
may waive the ten-day notice provision to facilitate the hearing process.
   (C)   After hearing testimony of the objector and the official who made the
decision or took the action objected to, the Board may confirm, revise, or
modify and confirm as revised, or modify the decision or action of the official
in any manner consistent with the discretionary authority herein delegated by
this chapter to that official.
(Ord. 26-2008, passed 7-14-08)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
APPENDIX A: EXPLANATION OF CITATION
      
APPENDIX B: VIOLATION FORM
      
APPENDIX C: WAIVER ALLOWING TRANSFER
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Duty of Police Department
   
70.03   Accident and violation records
   
70.04   Traffic accident studies; annual traffic report
   
70.05   Police to report accidents
   
70.06   Duties of the Board of Public Works and Safety
   
70.07   When traffic signs required
   
70.08   Riding or driving animals
   
70.09   Permits required for parades, processions and open air meetings
   
70.10   Pedestrian regulations
   
70.11   Truck regulations
   
70.12   Bicycles, skateboards and rollerblade regulations
   
70.13   Seat belts and child restraint systems required
   
70.14   Police Vehicle Equipment Fund
   
70.15   Parking Meter Fund
   
70.16   Administrative fee for towing vehicles
   
70.17   Motor vehicle license excise surtax and wheel tax
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way in an urban district that meets the following
qualifications:
      (1)   It is open to the public for vehicular traffic;
      (2)   It is publicly maintained;
      (3)   It is one lane wide; and
      (4)   It is designed as an alley by the local authorities on an official
map of the urban district.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Includes the following:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State department
of transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services, as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110.
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the department of correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
at least 50% of the frontage of the territory for a distance of at 500 feet is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. Any of the following:
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Apart of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Means a person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open for the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come into conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not include a
farm tractor or a motorized bicycle that is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for
the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground. The term does not include a farm tractor or a
motorized bicycle.
   M.U.T.C.D. The Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. A sign, signal, marking and device,
including a railroad advance warning sign, not inconsistent with this code
placed or erected by authority of a public body or an official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OPERATOR. When used in reference to a motor vehicle, a person, other than a
chauffeur or a public passenger chauffeur, who:
      (1)   Drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon a
highway; or
      (2)   Is exercising control over or steering a motor vehicle being towed
by a motor vehicle.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, includes the following:
         (a)   A regular member of the state police department;
         (b)   A regular member of a city or town police department;
         (c)   A town marshal or a town marshal deputy;
         (d)   A regular member of a county sheriff’s department; and/or
         (e)   A conservation officer of the Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   For purposes of
Chapter 71, POLICE OFFICER means an officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY OR ROAD. A way or place in private ownership that is used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of person or property upon cars, other than street cars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, locomotive, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of at least 500 feet is primarily improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The part of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use by
pedestrians.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, street cars, vehicles and
other conveyances, either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power.
(‘89 Code, § 60.01) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.02 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the city and all state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic; to make arrests for traffic violations; to investigate all traffic
accidents; to cooperate with the Common Council, Board of Public Works and
Safety and other offices of the city in the administration of the street
traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions;
and to carry out those duties specifically imposed by this code.
(‘89 Code, § 60.02) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.03 ACCIDENT AND VIOLATION RECORDS.
   The Police Department shall maintain a standard system of filing traffic
accident reports by location and shall maintain suitable files and records
showing the type and numbers of traffic accidents, and the arrests and warnings
issued to traffic law violators.
(‘89 Code, § 60.03) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES; ANNUAL TRAFFIC REPORT.
    (A)   The Police Department shall make frequent studies and analyses of all
accident and arrest records and shall utilize this information to work out ways
and means for accident prevention.
(‘89 Code, § 60.04)
   (B)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Mayor and the Board of Public Works and Safety, and any
other committee or official as may be designated by the Council. The report
shall include all information pertinent to the number of traffic accidents,
accident trends, the number of accidents investigated, arrests made as a result
of the investigations, the number of moving traffic violation arrests, the
number of parking violation arrests, and other data concerning the traffic
activities of the department.
(‘89 Code, § 60.06) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.05 POLICE TO REPORT ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Every police officer who, in the regular course of duty, investigates
a traffic accident, shall make a full and complete report of the investigation
on a standard accident report form where the total property damage is to the
apparent extent of $750 or more.
   (B)   All accident reports shall be for the confidential use of the Police
Department.
(‘89 Code, § 60.05) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.06 DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to do the following acts
relating to traffic control in the city:
   (A)   Erect and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices as
required under this code or and/or as warranted under the M.U.T.C.D., and erect
and maintain any additional traffic-control devices as it may deem necessary to
regulate traffic under this code, under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform with the
requirements of the M.U.T.C.D. All signs and signals required for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practical, be uniform as to type and location
throughout the city. All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of Indiana State law or this code shall be
official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Determine the course to be followed by vehicles turning at any
intersection in the city and place markers, signals or signs within or adjacent
to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at
the intersection.
   (C)   (1)   Erect stop or yield signs regulating the movement of traffic in,
to and across any intersection when, in the opinion of the Board, the
intersection is hazardous, and where the intersection is not otherwise
protected by stop, yield or other traffic signal devices.
      (2)   Stop and/or yield signs shall conform with the requirements of the
M.U.T.C.D.
      (3)   Each stop sign or yield regulation approved by the Board shall be
by resolution. The resolution shall describe the street(s) by name and the
street(s) governed by the restriction assigned.
   (D)   (1)   Erect appropriate signs giving notice whenever any parking time
limit is imposed or parking prohibited on any designated street(s) where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles could create a hazardous condition or
cause unusual delay of traffic. The signs shall be erected on the same side of
the street for which the restriction or prohibition is applicable.
      (2)   All parking signs shall conform with the requirements of the
M.U.T.C.D.
   (E)   Designate, mark and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway pedestrian crosswalks where, in the opinion of
the Board, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and
at any other places as the Board may deem necessary.
   (F)   (1)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at places as the
Board may deem advisable, consistent with this code.
      (2)   All traffic land markings shall conform with the requirements of
the M.U.T.C.D.
   (G)   Establish safety zones of a kind and character and at places as are
deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (H)   (1)   Regulate and establish the speed on all city streets which, by
virtue of their relationship to school traffic, both pedestrian and vehicular,
warrant regulation for the safety of children coming and going to the schools.
The regulation may be by the erection of speed limit signs and school zone
warning signs, and/or traffic-control signs or devices such as flashing lights,
wherever the Board deems it necessary for the protection of school children.
      (2)   All signs and/or devices erected under this division (H) shall
conform with the requirements of the M.U.T.C.D.
      (3)   Each school zone regulation approved by the Board shall be by
resolution. The resolution shall describe the street(s) by name, the speed
restriction assigned and the limits of the restriction.
   (I)   (1)   Regulate and establish the speed on all city streets which,
because of circumstances and the relationship to traffic, both pedestrian and
vehicular, should have a speed limit other than that established by state
statute. The regulation may be by the erection of speed limit signs, warning
signs, and/or other traffic-control signs or devices such as flashing lights,
whenever the Board deems it necessary for the protection of the traffic.
      (2)   All signs and/or devices erected under this division (I) shall
conform with the requirements of the M.U.T.C.D.
      (3)   Each speed regulation approved by the Board shall be by resolution.
The resolution shall describe the street(s) by name, the speed restriction
assigned and the limits of the restriction.
   (J)   Establish a policy for the installation of street lights and authorize
the installation of the street lights at locations deemed to warrant the
installation(s).
   (K)   Maintain official records of Board actions and inventories of all
regulatory signs, devices, speed zones, parking restrictions and the like. In
the event that data for the inventories are lost or have not been maintained,
the Board may make the inventories current by resolution, listing the
previously missing data.
(‘89 Code, § 60.09) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96 )
§ 70.07 WHEN TRAFFIC SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this code for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, the section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(‘89 Code, § 60.10) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.08 RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS.
   A person who rides an animal or propels any push cart upon a roadway is:
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this code applicable to the person who
drives a vehicle; and
   (B)   Is not subject to the provisions of this article that by their nature
have no application.
(‘89 Code, § 60.19) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 70.09 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND OPEN AIR MEETINGS.
   (A)   No procession or parade shall be allowed on any street of the city,
nor shall any open air meeting be held upon any ground abutting upon any street
of the city, until a written permit therefor shall have been obtained from the
Board of Public Works and Safety. No person shall march, ride or in any manner
participate in any parade or procession upon the street of the city, or attend
any open air meeting held upon any ground abutting on any street of the city
for which a written permit has not been first obtained in the manner provided
below.
   (B)   Application to conduct a procession, parade or open air meeting shall
be made in writing to the Board of Public Works and Safety through the Mayor’s
Office. The application shall be made by the individual in charge, control and/
or responsible for the activity. The application shall be made at least 24
hours in advance of a regularly scheduled Board meeting and shall contain as a
minimum:
      (1)   The specific route along which the procession or parade is to
proceed or the specific location of the open air meeting;
      (2)   The purpose thereof;
      (3)   The time of beginning and probable duration of the event; and
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the individual
responsible for the event;
   (C)   The Board shall have the authority to attach reasonable requirements
as conditions of any approval of the subject event in order to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the participants in the event or the non-
participating citizens and their properties.
   (D)   If the Board approves the application, it shall issue a written notice
of approval stating any conditions of that approval. If the application is not
approved it shall issue a written notice of denial stating the reasons for the
denial. Notice(s) shall be mailed to the applicant within 96 hours of the time
of the Board meeting at which the decision is made.
(‘89 Code, § 60.21) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.10 PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals referred to in
§§
71.01 and
71.26, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this section.
(‘89 Code, § 64.01)
   (B)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down
or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway upon
which the vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely
from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian
shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the
path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to
yield.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 64.02)
   (C)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practical, upon the right half of the
crosswalk.
(‘89 Code, § 64.03)
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by route
at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb
except in a crosswalk.
(‘89 Code, § 64.04)
   (E)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a
roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing
has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway. This provision shall have no application under the conditions stated
in division (F) below when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places.
(‘89 Code, § 64.05)
   (F)   (1)   No pedestrian shall cross a street between adjacent
intersections at which traffic-control signals are in operation, except in a
crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in a
business district.
(‘89 Code, § 64.06)
   (G)   (1)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along or
upon an adjacent roadway.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are not provided, a pedestrian walking along or
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder, facing traffic, which may approach from the opposite
direction.
(‘89 Code, § 64.07)
   (H)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 64.08)
   (I)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, each driver
of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
upon any roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary
and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused
or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(‘89 Code, § 64.09)
   (J)   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words
“walk” or “wait” are in place, the signals shall indicate the following:
      (1)   For signals exhibiting “walk,” pedestrians facing the signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   For signals exhibiting “wait,” no pedestrian shall start to cross
the roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has
partially completed his or her crossing on the “walk” signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or a safety zone while the “wait” signal is showing.
(‘89 Code, § 60.12) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.11 TRUCK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property, unless the vehicle has a maximum capacity of one
ton or less unloaded.
(‘89 Code, § 66.01)
    (B)   No driver of a truck shall drive it upon any street not listed in
Traffic Schedule III as a truck route except for the purpose of making a
delivery or carrying on business in the block in which the truck is being
driven. Any driver making a delivery shall enter the street at the first
intersection nearest the point of delivery, and leave the street at the first
intersection after the delivery.
(‘89 Code, § 66.02)
   (C)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck upon any street
in the city located in an area zoned primarily for residential purposes.
However, this section shall not apply to the parking of trucks in any area,
regardless of zoning designation, for purposes of making a delivery or carrying
on business.
(‘89 Code, § 66.04)
   (D)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck on any street
within the central business district of the city. However, a truck may park in
the area for the purpose of loading or unloading freight between the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. In the event of an emergency, exception to this
section may be permitted by specific authorization of a police officer.
(‘89 Code, § 66.05)
   (E)   No person shall park a bus or truck of more than one ton capacity on
any street or alley for a period of more than one hour, nor in any angle
parking space at any time.
(‘89 Code, § 66.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.12 BICYCLE, SKATEBOARD AND ROLLERBLADE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person riding a bicycle upon a street shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles and under
Chapter 71, except as to special regulations in this section and except as to
those provisions of state law and
Chapter 71 which by their nature can have no application.
(‘89 Code, § 67.01)
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
(‘89 Code, § 67.02)
   (C)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(‘89 Code, § 67.03)
   (D)   A person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(‘89 Code, § 67.04)
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the street shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the street.
(‘89 Code, § 67.05)
   (F)   No person riding upon a bicycle shall attach the bicycle or him or
herself to any vehicle upon a street.
(‘89 Code, § 67.06)
   (G)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle
bars.
(‘89 Code, § 67.07)
   (H)   (1)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the
street against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building in a manner so as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrians’ traffic.
      (2)   When signs are erected indicating a bicycle parking zone no person
shall park a vehicle in any bicycle parking zone in violation of the signs.
(‘89 Code, § 67.08)
   (I)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk in the city unless it
is done with care and diligence, at a speed appropriate to the conditions, and
the rider yields the right-of-way to pedestrians or other persons using the
sidewalk.
(‘89 Code, § 67.09) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (J)   Each bicycle, when in use at night time, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 67.10)
   (K)   Each bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(‘89 Code, § 67.11)
   (L)   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless
the bicycle is registered and licensed through the Police Department and is
equipped as required by this section.
(‘89 Code, § 67.17) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (M)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any hall not authorize or
knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
section.
(‘89 Code, § 67.18)
   (N)   No person or persons upon roller skates, skateboard or riding in or by
means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway
except while crossing the roadway at a crosswalk, and when so crossing, the
person shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to pedestrians. No person or persons upon roller skates, skateboard
or riding in or by means of any toy vehicle, coaster or similar device shall go
on any sidewalk or alleyway in any commercially zoned area within the city.
This section shall not apply on any street or roadway set while aside as a play
street pursuant to §
71.06.
(Ord. passed - -)
   (O)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this section may
have his or her bicycle or skateboard impounded for up to 60 days at the
discretion of the Chief of Police. The penalty, if imposed, is in lieu of the
penalty provided in §
10.99.
(‘89 Code, § 67.08) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.13 SEAT BELTS AND CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   Seat belts and/or child passenger restraint systems shall be installed and/
or worn as follows:
   (A)   Each front seat occupant of a passenger motor vehicle that is equipped
with a safety belt meeting the standards stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 208, the same being 49 CFR 571.208, shall have a safety
belt properly fastened about the occupant’s body at all times when the vehicle
is in forward motion.
   (B)   A person who operates a passenger motor vehicle that is equipped with
a safety belt meeting the standards stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard Number 208, the same being 49 CFR 571.208, in which there is a child
commits a violation of this code if:
      (1)   The child is at least four years of age but less than 12 years of
age; and
      (2)   The child is not properly fastened and restrained by a child
passenger restraint system or safety belt.
   (C)   This section can be enforced with a city ticket with a suggested fine
of $25 through Local Violations Bureau.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.14 POLICE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT FUND.
   There hereby is created a Police Vehicle Equipment Fund, which Fund shall be
spent by additional appropriation or annual budget.
   (A)   All proceeds from payments received by the Ordinance Violations Bureau
shall be allocated, set aside and deposited in the Police Vehicle Equipment
Fund for traffic violations of this code.
   (B)   Funds in the Police Vehicle Equipment Fund shall be used for the
acquisition of police vehicles and any other equipment related to the operation
of the vehicles, including, but not limited to, radio equipment, light bars and
individual officer equipment necessary to the operation of the individual
police vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 61.34) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed 9-23-96; Am. Ord.
passed - -)
§ 70.15 PARKING METER FUND.
   All moneys collected from parking meters maintained by the city shall be
placed in a special fund and used for:
   (A)   Meter purchase, rental fees and cost of installations;
   (B)   Meter maintenance, operation, repair and all other costs in connection
with the operation of meters;
   (C)   After the payment of the costs and expenses specified in divisions (A)
and (B) above, not less than 25% of the revenue shall be set aside for the
acquisition of off-street parking space; and
   (D)   The balance remaining in the Fund shall be used for the payment of
costs of traffic signal devices and repair and maintenance to any of the public
streets and highways where the parking meters are in use and all streets
connected therewith in the city.
(‘89 Code, § 63.19)
§ 70.16 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR TOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever the Valparaiso Police Department orders that a vehicle be
towed from any location within the corporate limits of the City of Valparaiso,
the designated towing service authorized to tow that vehicle shall assess
against the owner of the towed vehicle an administrative fee of $25 which shall
be collected in addition to any and all other applicable towing charges.
   (B)   The administrative towing fee created by this section shall be
included in the towing bill assessed by the authorized towing service and
collected by the authorized towing service as part of the authorized towing
bill.
   (C)   The administrative towing fee created by this section shall be
forwarded by the authorized towing service to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30
days of collection.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the administrative towing fee
created by this section into the Motor Vehicle Equipment Fund (Fund 281) for
appropriation and expenditure pursuant to established guidelines.
(Ord. 10-2004, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 23-2004, passed 6-14-04; Am. Ord. 30,
2009, passed 10-12-09)
§ 70.17 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE EXCISE SURTAX AND WHEEL TAX.
   (A)   Motor vehicle license excise surtax.
      (1)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby created a Municipal License
Excise Surtax Fund which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from
the Department of Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be
deposited into the Fund.
      (2)   Tax rates. Effective January 1, 2017, and in accordance with I.C.
6-3.5-10-2(c), the surtax shall be imposed at the following rates:
         (a)   Passenger rates: $25 per year;
         (b)   Motorcycles: $12.50 per year;
         (c)   Trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000
pounds: $25 per year; and
         (e)   Motor driven cycles: $12.50 per year.
      (3)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Excise Tax
Act, I.C. 6-3.5-10 et seq. and the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-11 et seq. shall
apply to this section.
      (4)   Uses of Fund.  Funds in the Municipal License Excise Surtax Fund
may be used for one or more of the following purposes:
         (a)   To construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction;
         (b)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the local
Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30.
      (5)   Transportation Asset Management Plan. The Mayor shall prepare a
Transportation Asset Management Plan, approved by the Indiana Department of
Transportation, as required by I.C. 6-3.5-10-2(e) and I.C. 6-3.5-11-2(c) and
submit a copy of such plan to the Common Council on or before August 1 of each
year.
      (6)   Accounting of Fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the surtax revenues
to be received by the city under this division (A) during the next calendar
year. The city shall include the estimated surtax revenues and the city's
budget estimate for the calendar year.
   (B)   Wheel tax.
      (1)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby created a Municipal Wheel Tax
Fund which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department
of Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the Fund.
      (2)   Tax rates. 
         (a)   Effective January 1, 2017, and in accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-11-
2(d), the wheel tax shall be imposed on the following non-exempt vehicles at
the following rates:
            1.   Buses: $40 per year;
            2.   Recreational vehicles: $12.50 per year;
            3.   Semi trailers: $40 per year;
            4.   Tractors: $40 per year;
            5.   Trailers: $12.50 per year; and
            6.   Trucks: $40 per year
         (b)   In accordance with I.C. 6-3.5-11-4, a vehicle is exempt from the
wheel tax if the vehicle is:
            1.   Owned by the state;
            2.   Owned by a state agency of the state;
            3.   Owned by a political subdivision of the state;
            4.   Subject to the annual license excise surtax imposed under I.C.
6-3.5-10; or
            5.   A bus owned and operate by a religious or nonprofit youth
organization and used to transport persons to religious services or for the
benefit of its members.
      (3)   Vehicle definitions. The definitions set forth in the Excise Tax
Act, I.C. 6-3.5-10 et seq. and the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-11 et seq. shall
apply to this section.
      (4)   Uses of Fund. Funds in the Municipal Wheel Tax Fund may be used for
one or more of the following purposes:
         (a)   To construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain streets and roads
under the city's jurisdiction;
         (b)   As a contribution to an authority established under I.C. 36-7-
23; and
         (c)   For the city's contribution to obtain a grant from the Local
Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund under I.C. 8-23-30.
      (5)   Transportation Asset Management Plan. The Mayor shall prepare a
Transportation Asset Management Plan as required in division (A) above.
      (6)   Accounting of Fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Common Council an estimate of the wheel tax
revenues to be received by the city under this section during the next calendar
year. The city shall include the estimated wheel tax revenues in the city's
budget estimate for the calendar year.
   (C)   County road funding. As such time as Porter County provides the City
of Valparaiso with a three-year road funding commitment substantially
equivalent to the revenue raised under the Excise Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-10 et
seq. and the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-11 et seq., then the Common Council
shall take action to repeal this section at their next regular meeting after
receiving such commitment.
   (D)   Repeal and modification.
      (1)   The Common Council shall vote within 45 days after one or more of
the following events to maintain or repeal this section:
         (a)   At such time, Porter County adopts a county-wide wheel tax and a
county-wide excise tax; or
         (b)   At such time the State of Indiana significantly reduces or
eliminates funding available from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant
Fund.
      (2)   Otherwise, this section may be repealed and the rate set forth
herein may be amended only in accordance with the Excise Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-10
et seq. and the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-11 et seq.
   (E)   Publication. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to file a copy of
Ordinance 10-2016 with the Commissioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and the
Department of State Revenue as required by the Excise Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-10 et
seq. and the Wheel Tax Act, I.C. 6-3.5-11 et seq.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 6-13-16)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   City owned traffic-control signals
   
71.02   State speed laws; urban speed limit
   
71.03   Police officers and fire fighters to direct traffic; disobedience
unlawful
   
71.04   Passing regulations
   
71.05   City speed zones; school zones; city tickets
   
71.06   Play streets
   
71.07   Turning at intersections
   
71.08   Turning markers
   
71.09   U-turns
   
71.10   One-way streets
   
71.11   Stop at stop sign
   
71.12   Right-of-way of vehicles at yield signs
   
71.13   Obedience to traffic-control devices required
   
71.14   Yielding when entering highway from driveway
   
71.15   Obstruction of intersection
   
71.16   Stopping at railroad crossings; procedure for crossing
   
71.17   Regulations concerning fire apparatus
   
71.18   Motor vehicles following too closely
   
71.19   Funeral processions
   
71.20   Limitation on number of passengers on motorcycles
   
71.21   Railroad trains blocking streets
   
71.22   Vehicles with lugs or cleats
   
71.23   Stopping for school buses required
   
71.24   Safety starting vehicle
   
71.25   Driving restricted to right-hand half of road; exceptions
   
71.26   Light indications of traffic-control signals
   
71.27   Signaling of stop or turn
   
71.28   Reasonable safety required for certain traffic maneuvers
   
71.29   Failure to dim bright or blinding lights
   
71.30   Failure to obey school crossing guard or school crossing zone
   
71.31   Emergency vehicles
   
71.32   Weight regulations
   
71.33   Prohibition of open alcoholic beverage containers
   
71.34   Violations; failure to appear
   
71.35   Golf carts
   
Appendix A: Explanation of Citation
   
Appendix B: Violation Form
   
Appendix C: Waiver Allowing Transfer
§ 71.01 CITY OWNED TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by city owned traffic-control signals
which exhibit different colored lights successively one at a time, or arrows,
the following colors shall apply to drivers of vehicles or pedestrians as
follows:
      (1)   For a signal showing green alone or “go:”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left, unless a sign at the place prohibits the turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   For a signal showing yellow alone or “caution,” when shown
following the green or “go” signal:
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby warned that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   For a signal showing red alone or “stop:”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or
“go” is shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway.
      (4)   For a signal showing red with a green arrow:
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(‘89 Code, § 60.11) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection or at a limit line when marked, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   When a yellow lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past the signal
only with caution.
(‘89 Code, § 60.13) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.02 STATE SPEED LAWS; URBAN SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated, the state traffic laws regulating the speed
of vehicles shall be applicable upon all streets within the city.
   (B)   The urban speed limit on any segment of street within the city shall
be 30 miles per hour unless:
      (1)   It is shown otherwise for that segment of street on the official
list of speed zones maintained by the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
      (2)   The speed limit is evidenced with signs on that segment of street.
(‘89 Code, § 60.15) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (C)   Violations of city ordinances and/or this code regarding speed
regulations will be enforced through the issuance of city tickets except where
or as prohibited by state statute. These city tickets will not be issued on
U.S. 30, S.R. 49, S.R. 130 or S.R. 2.
(‘89 Code, § 60.14) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 71.03 POLICE OFFICERS AND FIRE FIGHTERS TO DIRECT TRAFFIC; DISOBEDIENCE
UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the city, and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the city. Police officers are authorized to
direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with the traffic
laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or in the immediate
vicinity.
(‘89 Code, § 61.01)
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person to knowingly fail to comply with a lawful
order or direction of a law enforcement officer invested by law with authority
to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(‘89 Code, § 61.02) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 PASSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to the limitations, exceptions and
special rules stated:
      (1)   A person who drives a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction shall pass to the left of the other vehicle at a safe
distance, and may not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely
clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, a
person who drives an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of
the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of the
overtaken vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 61.03)
   (B)   A person who drives a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lanes of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   A person who drives a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under conditions that permit overtaking upon the right in
safety. Overtaking upon the right may not be made by driving off the roadway.
(‘89 Code, § 61.04) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 CITY SPEED ZONES; SCHOOL ZONES; CITY TICKETS.
   Exceeding a city established and posted speed zone limit or a posted school
zone limit of 20 miles per hour, either as established by the Board of Public
Works and Safety, is a violation of this code that may be enforced with a city
ticket.
(‘89 Code, § 61.05) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever the Board of Public Works declares any street or part thereof a
play street, and appropriate signs or devices have been erected indicating and
helping to protect the same, no person shall drive a vehicle upon the play
street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are in the closed area, and then each driver shall exercise the
greatest care driving therein.
(‘89 Code, § 60.20) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.07 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   A person who drives a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection must do
the following:
   (A)   Make both the approach for a right turn and a right turn as close as
practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Make an approach for a left turn in that part of the right half of the
roadway nearest the center line of the roadway. After entering the
intersection, the person who drives a vehicle must make the left turn so as to
leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the roadway being
entered.
   (C)   Make an approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way
street in that part of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line of
the roadway and pass to the right of the center line where the center line
enters the intersection.
   (D)   Make a left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street by
passing to the right of the center line of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
   (E)   Where both streets are one-way, make both the approach for a left turn
and a left turn as close as practicable to the left-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
(‘89 Code, § 61.06) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.08 TURNING MARKERS.
   When markers, buttons or signs are placed within or adjacent to
intersections which require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
then a person who drives a vehicle at that intersection may not turn the
vehicle other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons or signs.
(‘89 Code, § 61.07) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.09 U-TURNS.
   A vehicle may not be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any street in a business district, upon any curve, or upon the approach to or
near the crest of a grade, where the vehicle cannot be seen by the person who
drives any other vehicle approaching from either direction within 750 feet.
(‘89 Code, § 61.08) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.10 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   A vehicle shall be driven upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-
way traffic only in the direction designated.
(‘89 Code, § 61.09) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.11 STOP AT STOP SIGN.
   A person who drives a vehicle shall come to a complete stop at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected. After stopping, the driver shall
proceed cautiously through the intersection, yielding to pedestrians and/or
vehicles not required to stop or otherwise have the right-of-way.
(‘89 Code, § 61.10) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 71.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF VEHICLES AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down
to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions or stop if necessary. The
person shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian legally crossing a roadway
and to a vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so
closely as to present an immediate hazard.
   (B)   After yielding, the person may proceed, and all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle proceeding.
(‘89 Code, § 61.11) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 71.13 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle or street car may not disobey the
instructions of an official traffic-control device unless otherwise directed by
a police officer.
   (B)   When a traffic-control device or flagman is utilized at a worksite on
a highway for traffic control, a person who drives a vehicle shall exercise
extraordinary care to secure the mutual safety of all persons and vehicles at
the worksite.
   (C)   All traffic shall observe and obey traffic-control devices including
signals, signs and warnings, and all directions, signs or warning devices that
may be given or displayed by a police officer or flagman to safely control
traffic movement at a worksite and to promote safety at a worksite.
(‘89 Code, § 61.12) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.14 YIELDING WHEN ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM DRIVEWAY.
   A person who drives a vehicle that is about to enter or cross a highway from
a private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway.
(‘89 Code, § 61.13) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.15 OBSTRUCTION OF INTERSECTION.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle that is being operated without obstructing the passage
of another vehicle or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(‘89 Code, § 61.14) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.16 STOPPING AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS; PROCEDURE FOR CROSSING.
   Whenever a person who drives a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing,
the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest
track of the railroad, and may not proceed until the person can do so safely
under the following circumstances:
   (A)   When a clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train;
   (B)   When a crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a train;
   (C)   When a railroad train approaching within 1,500 feet of a highway
crossing emits an audible signal and because of speed or nearness to the
crossing is an immediate hazard; and/or
   (D)   When an approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to the crossing.
(‘89 Code, § 61.15)
   (E)   When a stop sign is erected at a railroad crossing, the driver of a
vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest
track of the grade crossing, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(‘89 Code, § 61.30)
   (F)   (1)   This division does not apply to the following:
         (a)   A street railway grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
         (b)   Abandoned or unused tracks.
      (2)   The following vehicles shall adhere to the provisions of this
division:
         (a)   A motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
         (b)   A school or private bus that is carrying passengers; or
         (c)   A vehicle carrying explosive substances or flammable liquids as
a cargo or part of the cargo.
      (3)   These types of vehicles listed in subsection (2) above shall,
before crossing at grade a track of railroad, stop the vehicle not more than 50
feet and not less than 10 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad.
      (4)   While stopped in accordance with subsection (3) above, the person
shall do the following:
         (a)   Listen through an open window or door;
         (b)   Look in both directions along the track for an approaching train
and for signals indicating the approach of a train;
         (c)   Not proceed until the person can proceed safely. After stopping,
the person shall cross only in a gear of the vehicle so there will be no
necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing. The person who
drives the vehicle may not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks; and
         (d)   If a police officer or traffic-control signal directs traffic to
proceed at a railroad crossing, the person who drives a vehicle subject to this
section shall proceed in accordance with the instructions of the police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(‘89 Code, § 61.32) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.17 REGULATIONS CONCERNING FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle and is not on official business may not
do any of the following:
      (1)   Follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm at
a distance closer than 500 feet.
      (2)   Drive into or park a vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(‘89 Code, § 61.16)
   (B)   A street car or vehicle may not be driven over an unprotected hose of
the Fire Department when laid down on a street, private driveway or street car
track to be used at a fire alarm or alarm of fire without the consent of the
Fire Department official in command.
(‘89 Code, § 61.18) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.18 MOTOR VEHICLES FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   A person who drives a motor vehicle may not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both
vehicles, the time interval between vehicles, and the condition of the highway.
(‘89 Code, § 61.17) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.19 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   A person who drives a vehicle that is not in a funeral procession may not
drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession, except when:
   (A)   Authorized to do so by a traffic officer; or
   (B)   The vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal
by siren.
(‘89 Code, § 61.19) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.20 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PASSENGERS ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   In addition to the person who operates a motorcycle that has only two
wheels in contact with the ground or pavement, one person may be carried on the
motorcycle. A passenger may be carried only on a firmly attached and regular
seat designed for passenger use.
   (B)   A person may not drive, operate, or ride as a passenger on a
motorcycle that has only two wheels in contact with the ground or pavement in a
position other than astride the seat or saddle provided.
(‘89 Code, § 61.20) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.21 RAILROAD TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for a railroad corporation to permit any train,
railroad car or engine to obstruct public travel at a railroad/highway crossing
for a period in excess of ten minutes, except where the train, railroad car or
engine cannot be moved by reasons of circumstances over which the railroad
corporation has no control.
(‘89 Code, § 61.21) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.22 VEHICLES WITH LUGS OR CLEATS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (D) below, a tire on a vehicle
moved on a highway may not have on the tire’s periphery a block, stud, flange,
cleat, spike or any other protuberance of any material other than rubber that
projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   Farm machinery may use tires having protuberances that will not injure
the highway.
   (C)   Tire chains of reasonable proportions may be used upon a vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a
vehicle to skid.
   (D)   From October 1 to the following May 1, a vehicle may use tires in
which have been inserted ice grips or tire studs of wear-resisting material,
installed in a manner that provides resiliency upon contact with the road, with
projections that do not exceed three thirty-seconds of an inch beyond the tread
of the traction surface of the tire, and constructed to prevent any appreciable
damage to the road surface.
(‘89 Code, § 61.22) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.23 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be a violation of this section when any person driving a vehicle:
   (A)   Meets or overtakes from any direction a school bus stopped on a
roadway and is not stopped before reaching the school bus when the arm signal
device is in its extended position; or
   (B)   Proceeds before the arm signal device is no longer extended.
(‘89 Code, § 61.23) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.24 SAFETY IN STARTING VEHICLE.
   A person may not start a vehicle that is stopped, standing or parked until
the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(‘89 Code, § 61.24) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.25 DRIVING RESTRICTED TO RIGHT-HAND HALF OF ROAD; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing overtaking and passing;
      (2)   When the right half of the roadway is closed to traffic under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable to a roadway divided into three marked lanes.
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, a vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place under the conditions then existing shall be
driven:
      (1)   In the right-hand lane then available for traffic; or
      (2)   As close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway; except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
(‘89 Code, § 61.25) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
 § 71.26 LIGHT INDICATIONS OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows successively, one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red or yellow may be used, except for
special pedestrian signals.
   (B)   The lights indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians
as follows:
      (1)   Green indication means the following:
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at the place prohibits
either turn.
         (b)   Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent sidewalk at the time the signal is
exhibited.
         (c)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the green arrow or other movement permitted
by other indications shown at the same time.
         (d)   Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
         (e)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a green signal, except when the sole green signal is a turn
arrow, may proceed across the roadway within a marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Steady yellow indication means the following:
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow
arrow signal is warned that the related green movement is being terminated and
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
         (b)   A pedestrian facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, is advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is
shown, and a pedestrian may not start to cross the roadway at that time.
      (3)   Steady red indication means the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) below, vehicular traffic
facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly marked stop
sign. However, if there is no clearly marked stop sign, vehicular traffic shall
stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection. If
there is no crosswalk, vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown.
         (b)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn described in
this division, vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal, after coming to a
complete stop, may cautiously enter the intersection to do the following:
            1.   Make a right turn; or
            2.   Make a left turn if turning from the left lane of a one-way
street into another one- way street with the flow of traffic. Vehicular traffic
making a turn described in this division shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic using
the intersection.
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady circular red signal alone may not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   No indications or conflicting indications means the following:
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing an intersection having a signal that
displays no indication or conflicting indications, where no other control is
present, shall stop before entering the intersection.
         (b)   After stopping, vehicular traffic may proceed with caution
through the intersection and shall yield the right-of-way to traffic within the
intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (5)   This section applies to traffic-control signals located at a place
other than an intersection. A stop required under this section must be made at
the signal, except when the signal is supplemented by a sign or pavement
marking indicating where the stop must be made.
(‘89 Code, § 61.26)
   (C)   (1)   This division does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
      (2)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow light is used in a
traffic signal or with a traffic sign, vehicular traffic shall obey the signal
in the following manner:
         (a)   Flashing red (stop signal) means the following:
            1.   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
a person who drives a vehicle shall stop at a clearly marked stop line before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
            2.   If no line exists, the person shall stop at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the person has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the roadway.
            3.   The right to proceed is subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign.
         (b)   Flashing yellow (caution signal) means that when a yellow lens
is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, a person who drives a vehicle
may proceed through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(‘89 Code, § 61.27) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 71.27 SIGNALING OF STOP OR TURN.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, a stop or turn signal
required under this chapter may be given by means of the hand and arm or by a
signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device.
   (B)   This section does not apply to farm tractors and implements. A motor
vehicle in use on a highway must be equipped with and a required signal shall
be given by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device when either of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the
left outside limit of the body, cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24
inches.
      (2)   The distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the
rear limit of the body or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 14 feet. This
measurement applies to a single vehicle and a combination of vehicles.
   (C)   All signals required under this chapter may be given by hand and arm.
A signal given under this section shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner:
      (1)   A left turn is indicated by extending the hand and arm
horizontally.
      (2)   A right turn is indicated by extending the hand and arm upward.
      (3)   A stop or decreased speed is indicated by extending the hand and
arm downward.
   (D)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by a vehicle
before turning or changing lanes. A vehicle traveling in a speed zone of at
least 50 miles per hour shall give a signal continuously for not less than the
last 300 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning or changing lanes.
(‘89 Code, § 61.28) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 71.28 REASONABLE SAFETY REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN TRAFFIC MANEUVERS.
   (A)   Unless the movement can be made with reasonable safety, a person may
not:
      (1)   Slow down or stop a vehicle;
      (2)   Turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway; or
      (3)   Change from one traffic lane to another; unless the movement can be
made with reasonable safety.
   (B)   Before making a movement described in this section, a person shall
give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian is
affected by the movement, and give an appropriate stop or turn signal in the
manner provided in §
71.27 if any other vehicle may be affected by this movement.
(‘89 Code, § 61.29) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.29 FAILURE TO DIM BRIGHT OR BLINDING LIGHTS.
   A person who operates a vehicle and fails to dim bright or blinding lights
when meeting another vehicle or pedestrian commits a violation of this section.
(‘89 Code, § 61.31) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.30 FAILURE TO OBEY SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD OR SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE.
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle shall obey the instructions of a school
crossing guard to stop the vehicle before entering a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Whenever a person who drives a vehicle approaches a school crossing
zone, the person shall exercise extraordinary caution to secure the safety of
children in the school crossing zone.
(‘89 Code, § 61.33) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 71.31 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   This section applies to the person who drives an authorized emergency
vehicle when:
      (1)   Responding to an emergency call;
      (2)   In the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law; or
      (3)   Responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm.
   (B)   The person who drives an authorized emergency vehicle may do the
following:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding other provisions of this code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits if the person who drives the
vehicle does not endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   This section applies to an authorized emergency vehicle only when the
vehicle is using audible or visual signals as required by law. An authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle is not required to be equipped
with or display red and blue lights visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   This section does not do the following:
      (1)   Relieve the person who drives an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons; or
      (2)   Protect the person who drives an authorized emergency vehicle from
the consequences of the person’s reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(‘89 Code, § 60.17)
   (E)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
the person who drives the authorized vehicle is giving audible signal by siren
or displaying alternately flashing red, red and white, or red and blue lights,
a person who drives another vehicle shall do the following unless otherwise
directed by a law enforcement officer:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way;
      (2)   Immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close to the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection; and
      (3)   Stop and remain in position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(‘89 Code, § 60.18) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
§ 71.32 WEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate, move or permit to be operated or moved upon
any street within the city, which street is posted by the Board of Public
Works, any vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding a total gross weight,
with load, of 10,000 pounds.
(‘89 Code, § 65.01)
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply if a permit is first secured from
the Board of Public Works or its duly constituted agents or employees.
(‘89 Code, § 65.02)
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall have the authority to post, from time
to time, weight regulations as provided by division (A) above upon any of the
streets of the city which in the opinion of the Board, require a restriction on
vehicle weight.
(‘89 Code, § 65.03)
   (D)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to local
deliveries or pick-ups if made by shortest route to place of delivery or pick-
up.
(‘89 Code, § 65.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.33 PROHIBITION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. As defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
      CONTAINER. As defined in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in I.C. 9-13-2-105, except that MOTOR VEHICLE,
as used in this section, shall not include any chartered passenger vehicle
licensed to operate within the state.
(‘89 Code, § 68.01)
   (B)   A person commits a violation of this section, constituting an
ordinance violation, who knowingly, while in a motor vehicle that is being
operated upon a public way, public road, public highway or any other public
location within the city limits:
      (1)   Consumes an alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Possesses a container:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
(‘89 Code, § 68.02)
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this section occurs if the operator or owner of a
motor vehicle who, while the motor vehicle is in operation, keeps or allows to
be kept in an area of the motor vehicle that is accessible to the operator or a
passenger a container:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
      (2)   A violation of this section occurs notwithstanding division (A)
above, when the operator of a recreational vehicle or chartered passenger
vehicle licensed to operate within the state who, while the motor vehicle is in
operation, knowingly keeps or allows a chartered passenger vehicle that is
accessible to the operator a container:
         (a)   That has been opened;
         (b)   That has a broken seal; or
         (c)   From which some of the contents have been removed.
(‘89 Code, § 68.03)
   (D)   An officer of the City Police Department may issue a city ordinance
violation citation to a person who violates this section.
(‘89 Code, § 68.04)
   (E)   Signs giving notice of this prohibition of open alcoholic beverage
containers shall be posted at all locations deemed appropriate by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 68.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.34 VIOLATIONS; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Any person who violates his or her written promise to appear given to an
officer upon arrest for any traffic violation is guilty of a misdemeanor,
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which he or she was originally
arrested.
(‘89 Code, § 60.07) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.35 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition.
      GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle (whether powered by battery, fuel
engine or otherwise) originally and specifically designed and intended to
transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing a
game of golf on a golf course. This definition explicitly excludes all-terrain
vehicles (ATVs), utility vehicles (UTVs) Go Karts or any motorized vehicles
with an engine in excess of 150 cc. It also excludes any golf cart with more
than three rows of seating or a seating capacity exceeding six passengers.
   (B)   Compliance requirements. Except as otherwise provided, the operation
or parking of a golf cart shall be limited to city residential roads, streets,
alleys and thoroughfares and shall not be permitted on major thoroughfares or
highways - except to cross. Attached to Ord. 21, 2021 as Exhibit A, and
incorporated herein by reference, is a map designating roads where golf carts
cannot travel. Golf carts may not be operated on any public sidewalk, pathway
or designated bike path lane. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
operators of golf carts must follow all rules applicable to vehicles on public
rights-of-way. In addition, when safe, golf carts shall move to far right side
of a city road, street, alley and thoroughfare to allow vehicular traffic to
pass.
   (C)   Registration. No golf cart shall be parked and/or operated on any city
residential roads, streets and thoroughfares, except insofar as such golf cart
is registered, equipped and operated in full compliance with the following:
      (1)   The owners or lessees of a golf cart must register the golf cart
with the Valparaiso Police Department and subject the golf cart to an annual
safety inspection by a Valparaiso Police officer. Unless otherwise stated by
the Valparaiso Police Department, all safety inspections will be conducted at
the Valparaiso Police station. The annual fee for the golf cart permit sticker
shall be $500, renewable annually at a cost of $25. Any lapse in registration
of 90 days or more shall require a new registration at the initial $50 amount.
The permit sticker must be affixed to the golf cart on the front windshield.
      (2)   In addition to being in good operating condition, to receive a
permit sticker, the golf cart must have the following:
         (a)   A windshield;
         (b)   Seatbelts for operator and all passengers;
         (c)   An operating horn;
         (d)   Headlights, taillights, turn signals and brake lights visible
from a distance of at least 500 feet;
         (e)   Rearview mirror;
         (f)   A roof canopy; and
         (g)   A roof mounted amber or yellow solid light.
      (3)   At all times, the owner or lessee must maintain liability insurance
coverage for injuries arising from the use of the golf cart in an amount no
less than $25,000. Proof of liability coverage must be present with the
operator of the golf cart at all times.
      (4)   The Valparaiso Police Department is directed to develop and utilize
a registration form. Such form will contain a certification that the operator
will observe all traffic laws applicable to the operation of a motor vehicle.
The Valparaiso Police Department will handle the ordering of all permit
stickers and collection of all registration fees.
   (D)   Regulations.
      (1)   A golf cart shall only be operated by a licensed driver, with proof
of such on their person while operating the golf cart.
      (2)   No golf cart shall exceed a speed the lesser of 25 mile per hour or
the posted speed limit.
      (3)   The golf cart operator and all passengers must utilize seatbelts
whenever the golf cart is on a city road, street, alley and thoroughfare.
      (4)   The golf cart shall be subject to the City's Noise Ordinance.
   (E)   Enforcement. The police chief or his/her respective designees are
authorized to enforce the terms and provisions of this section.
   (F)   Weather limitations. Golf carts may not operate when there is one inch
or more of snow accumulation and/or other weather conditions make usage unsafe.
   (G)   Parking/storage.
      (1)   Golf carts may park in any public vehicle parking space in
adherence with all rules and regulations relating to the parking of vehicles.
Golf carts may be parked in private driveways and private areas designated for
the vehicle parking with the permission of the property owner.
      (2)   No golf cart shall be parked or stored on a front or side lawn in a
residential neighborhood or parked on a road, street, alley or thoroughfare
overnight.
      (3)   Golf carts may not park in any permit parking space during times
when permits are required.
   (H)   Permits.
      (1)   Permits shall be issued as provided in division (C)(1).
      (2)   Permits shall be valid from the date of issuance through the end of
the calendar year. Any golf cart with an expired permit shall have until March
31 of the following year to secure a renewal. Any permit issued between the
effective date of this section and December 31, 2021 shall receive a permit
valid through December 31, 2022.
      (3)   Replacement permit stickers shall be issued, if available, at a
cost of $25.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this section for anyone other than a
Valparaiso Police officer to place a permit sticker on a golf cart or to remove
a permit sticker from a golf cart and place it on a golf cart that has not been
inspected.
   (I)   Amendments. The Board of Works is empowered to make any necessary
changes to Exhibit A.
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   The first violation of this section shall subject the owner and/or
operator of the golf cart to a fine of $100.
      (2)   A second violation of this section shall subject the owner and/or
operator of the golf cart to a fine of $150.
      (3)   A third violation of this section shall subject the owner and/or
operator of the golf cart to a fine of $200 and revocation of their operating
permit for a term of one year from the date of the third violation.
(Ord. 21-2021, passed 8-23-21)
APPENDIX A: EXPLANATION OF CITATION
Dear Sir or Madam,
You have been issued a Citation for violating and Ordinance of the City of
Valparaiso, IN.
Please be advised that if you do not dispute the validity of the citation, you
may resolve this matter by paying the FINE AMOUNT of $50 at the City of
Valparaiso Violations Bureau, City Hall Clerk’s Office, 166 W. Lincolnway,
Valparaiso, Indiana 46383. Office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to
4:30 p.m. You may pay by mail by signing section 1 or 2 at the bottom reverse
side of the ticket and send the ticket to the above address with a MONEY ORDER
in the amount of $50, made payable to the City of Valparaiso. DO NOT SEND CASH
IN THE MAIL. NO PERSONAL CHECKS WILL BE ACCEPTED. Any questions, you may call
(219) 462-1161.
Also be advised that your ability to pay this fine as a City of Valparaiso
Ordinance Violation is good for THIRTY (30) DAYS ONLY from the date of the
violation, or until the close of the next business day if the thirtieth (30th )
day should fall on a day when the Violation Bureau in not open for business.
If not timely paid, this violation will proceed to the Porter County Court
located at the Courthouse, 16 E. Lincolnway, Valparaiso, Indiana 46383. It will
then be enforced through the county court system. Please understand the City of
Valparaiso Violations Bureau would then lose all ability to handle this matter
in a simple fashion, and that such a transfer may result in the additional
imposition of court costs.
If you wish to dispute the validity of the citation, you have two options. They
are:
   OPTION #1:   Wait the 30 day period of time for the transfer to county
court; or,
   OPTION #2:   You may inform the City of Valparaiso Violations Bureau in
person or in writing that you wish this matter to be immediately transferred to
the Porter County Court located at the Courthouse, 16 E. Lincolnway,
Valparaiso, Indiana 46383.
If you inform the City Violations Bureau in person, you will be asked to sign a
waiver authorizing said transfer.
If the citation is transferred to Porter County Court by OPTION #1 or OPTION
#2, you MUST appear on the date and time and at the address listed on the
citation for your arraignment, or pay the FINE and COURT COSTS to the Porter
County Court by that date.
***Be further advised that, should this matter proceed to trial and a judgement
be entered against you, you will be assessed court costs in addition to the
fine. Any questions to the Porter County Court should be directed to (219) 465-
3413, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
If, however, you wish to resolve this matter through the City of Valparaiso
Violations Bureau, NO COURT APPEARANCE will be necessary, and NO COURT COSTS or
POINTS AGAINST YOUR LICENSE will be assessed.
Your cooperation in this matter is greatly appreciated.
Sincerely,
City of Valparaiso Violations Bureau (166 W. Lincolnway, Valparaiso, IN 46383)
(‘89 Code, Traffic Exhibit A) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
APPENDIX B: VIOLATION FORM
STATE OF INDIANA   )               IN THE PORTER SUPERIOR COURT
            )   SS:            COUNTY DIVISION
COUNTY OF PORTER   )               SITTING AT VALPARAISO, INDIANA
TOWN OF VALPARAISO, A   )
   Municipal Corporation,         )
   Plaintiff,               )
                     )
vs.                     )            CAUSE NO. ____________________
                     )
__________________________,)
   Defendant.
NOTICE
   Be here advised that the City of Valparaiso now alleges that the defendant
listed below violated section __________ of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana on
_________ , 20___. Further, that the defendant listed below is granted a court
appearance as follows:
         DATE: __________________
         TIME: __________________
         LOCATION:   16 East Lincolnway
                     Valparaiso, In 46383
DEFENDANT NAME (PRINTED) _____________________________________
DEFENDANT SIGNATURE __________________________________________
(Your signature is not an admission of guilt nor of a violation)
DEFENDANT’S CURRENT ADDRESS _________________________________
COURT CONTACT __________________________________________________
(‘89 Code, Traffic Exhibit B) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
APPENDIX C: WAIVER ALLOWING TRANSFER
I, ________________ , understand that I have been charged with a violation of
an ordinance of the City of Valparaiso as stated on ticket # ______________ ,
issued on ______________, and I further understand that the fine imposed by the
City of Valparaiso, if I admit guilt of the alleged violation, can be paid
through the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the City of Valparaiso located at
166 West Lincolnway, Valparaiso, Indiana, if done so within 30 days of the
violation or that, upon failure to pay the fine or request by me, this cause
will be transferred to the Porter County Court System located at 16 East
Lincolnway, Valparaiso, Indiana, for processing. I hereby WAIVE the ability to
dispose of this cause through the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the City of
Valparaiso and DO REQUEST this cause be timely transferred to the Porter County
Court.
___________________________________________   __________________________
Signature                     Date
___________________________________________
Print Name
(‘89 Code, Traffic Exhibit C) (Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in designated areas
   
72.03   Alley parking restricted
   
72.04   Parking after snowfall prohibited
   
72.05   Parking for sale or repair prohibited
   
72.06   Parking in congested locations prohibited
   
72.07   No parking zones
   
72.08   Two-hour and three-hour parking zones
   
72.09   Restricted parking areas
   
72.10   Towing of vehicles
   
72.11   Authority to impound vehicles
   
72.12   Downtown parking restrictions
   
72.13   City lot
Parking Meters and Permits
   
72.20   Definition
   
72.21   Length of parking time
   
72.22   Installation and operation of meters
   
72.23   Parking meter spaces
   
72.24   Loading zones
   
72.25   Payment of meter required
   
72.26   Schedule of charges
   
72.27   Hours for use of meters
   
72.28   Unlawful parking prohibited
   
72.29   Presumption that owner parked car
   
72.30   Deposit of slugs; tampering with meters prohibited
   
72.31   Duty of Police Department to report violations
   
72.32   Meter coin collectors
   
72.33   Parking law conflicts
   
72.34   Off-street meter permits
   
72.35   Handicapped parking
   
72.36   Fines
   
72.37   Vehicle immobilization
Snow Emergency System
   
72.50   Definitions
   
72.51   Vehicle removal
   
72.52   City lot
   
72.53   Obstruction of public ways
   
72.54   Violations
Parking in East Gate and University Promenade Areas
   
72.70   East Gate Parking Area
   
72.71   University Promenade Parking Area
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above paragraph, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle on the left hand side of a one-way street other than parallel with the
edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with
the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked by the Board of
Public Works and Safety for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
the signs or markings.
(‘89 Code, § 62.01)
§ 72.02 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of
a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places or
because of any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb or a street;
      (11)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (12)   At any place where official signs, and or (temporary police order
or temporary no parking signs) prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (13)   At any location where the curb or roadway is painted yellow to
depict a no parking zone; and
      (14)   In any location including an authorized parking space where the
parking shall obstruct the visibility for any oncoming traffic from any
direction resulting in a hazardous situation for other drivers, a vehicle will
be in violation of this code.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into a prohibited area or away from a curb a distance that is unlawful.
(‘89 Code, § 62.02) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.03 ALLEY PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park a vehicle within any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading freight, in a manner or under conditions so as to leave
available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an
alley in a position so as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
(‘89 Code, § 62.03)
§ 72.04 PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL PROHIBITED.
   No person, except physicians on emergency calls, shall park a vehicle on any
street when there is two or more inches of snow thereon.
(‘89 Code, § 62.04)
§ 72.05 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principle purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(‘89 Code, § 62.05)
§ 72.06 PARKING IN CONGESTED LOCATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley,
in a manner or in a condition so as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon any narrow
streets, or at hazardous or congested locations, or on one-way streets, all as
authorized by this code, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any
street in violation of any sign of these types.
(‘89 Code, § 62.06)
§ 72.07 NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Parking on certain streets or parts of streets in the city shall be
prohibited when, in the opinion of the City Board of Public Works and Safety,
the prohibition provides for the smoother flow of traffic, removal of traffic
congestion or when the prohibition is in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall occur when a vehicle is parked upon
a street or part of a street designated as a no parking zone.
(‘89 Code, § 62.07)
§ 72.08 TWO-HOUR AND THREE-HOUR PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   In any area designated as a two-hour or three-hour parking zone or
parking lot and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle for a period of time longer than two hours or
three hours as designated between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine the areas of the
city that shall be designated as two-hour parking zones, and shall provide for
signs indicating this designation, or may provide for notice to be placed on
parking meters if the same are deemed necessary.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to provide notice to the user of a
parking space as to the parking requirements therefore.
(‘89 Code, § 62.08) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.09 RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may limit the time of parking at
any parking space within the city of a period of less than two hours when the
restriction is deemed to be in the best interest of the city or provides for
the smoother flow of traffic or for the removal of traffic congestion.
   (B)   The restricted parking areas shall be designated by sign or may
provide for notice to be placed on parking meters if the notice is deemed
necessary.
(‘89 Code, § 62.09)
§ 72.10 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   When the city Police Department deems necessary, and vehicle may be moved or
impounded that is in violation as stated in this chapter. Whenever possible an
attempt shall be made to contact the last registered owner of the vehicle prior
to the removal of that vehicle. The city Police Department will contact a duty
wrecker that is on call for the city at the time of the occurrence. The
property owner of the illegally parked vehicle will be responsible for any
towing charges and or storage incurred by the violation.
(‘89 Code, § 62.11)
§ 72.11 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from a
street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or otherwise
maintained by the city in the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic.
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reasons of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal.
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or is parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
      (4)   A vehicle may be moved or impounded if found to be in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer removes a vehicle from a street and knows or
is able to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle the name and
address of the owner, the officer shall, within a reasonable time, notify the
owner of the removal and reasons therefore, and of the place where the vehicle
is located. In the event the vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of
the notice shall be given to the garage proprietor.
   (C)   If the police officer does not know and is not able to ascertain the
name of the owner or for any other reason is unable to notify the owner as
provided, and the vehicle is not returned to the owner, the officer shall send
a written report by mail to the State Department whose duty it is to register
motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of the notice with the proprietor of the
garage, if any where the vehicle is stored. The notice shall include a complete
description of the vehicle, the date, time, and place from which removed, the
reasons for the removal, and the name of the place or garage where the vehicle
is stored.
(‘89 Code, § 60.08)
§ 72.12 DOWNTOWN PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, certain terms or words used herein
shall be given the following meanings:
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which a person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a street or highway as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
196.
   (B)   The Council declares the parking of vehicles, as defined by this
section, in certain areas and at certain times within the city to be a public
nuisance and prohibited activity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to park in or to permit to remain stationary any vehicle in the following
prohibited areas at the following times:
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked along Lincolnway (both sides of the
street) from Napoleon Street to Morgan Boulevard on Mondays from 11:00 p.m.
Sunday to 5:00 a.m. Monday;
      (2)   No vehicle shall be parked along Michigan Avenue from Indiana
Avenue to Jefferson Street on Tuesdays from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.;
      (3)   No vehicle shall be parked along Franklin Street from Indiana
Avenue to Jefferson Street on Tuesdays from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.;
      (4)   No vehicle shall be parked along Washington Street from Indiana
Avenue to Jefferson Street on Tuesdays from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.;
      (5)   No vehicle shall be parked along Lafayette Street from Indiana
Avenue to Jefferson Street Tuesdays from 1:00 a.m to 5:00 a.m.; and
      (6)   No vehicle shall be parked along either side of Napoleon Street
from Indiana Avenue to Jefferson Street on Tuesdays from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
   (D)   Any vehicle found to be in violation of this section or any other
ordinance regulating parking is subject to being removed without notice to the
vehicle’s owner.
   (E)   Upon observing any vehicle in violation of this section or any other
ordinance regulating parking, the Police Department shall contact the towing
service employed by the city and have said vehicle removed.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the Department
of Public Works from having a vehicle found in violation of this section or any
other ordinance regulating parking removed by a towing service.
   (G)   The owner of any vehicle found to be in violation of this section
shall be solely responsible and liable for all costs incidental to the removal,
storage or disposition of said vehicle.
   (H)   The city, its agents, representatives and employees shall not be
liable for the loss or damage to any vehicle occurring during the removal,
storage or disposition of said vehicle pursuant to this section.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the operation
and/or parking of any vehicle owned or operated by the city or its various
departments for legitimate governmental purposes.
   (J)   Violation of this section or any other ordinance regulating parking
within the city shall also be punishable by a citation. In addition, the city
may seek injunctive relief against any and all persons, firms, corporations or
other entities who violate the provisions of this section. All fines can be
paid at the City Hall. All fines paid to the city as a result of a violation of
this section shall be deposited into the Parking Meter Fund.
(Ord. 13-2008, passed 5-12-08)
§ 72.13 CITY LOT.
   It shall be unlawful to park any kind of vehicle in a city owned or operated
parking lot from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. prevailing time without a valid city-
issued permit. Any vehicle parked in a parking lot during this time may be
towed away and the owner or person exerting control over the vehicle will be
subject to removal costs. This section shall be applicable at all times and is
not restricted to snow emergencies only. The city reserves the right to post
any city owned or operated lot closed with 24 hours notice or at any time in
the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
PARKING METERS AND PERMITS
§ 72.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL PARKING TIME INDICATOR or PARKING METER. A device which indicates
thereon: the length of time during which a vehicle may be parked in a
particular place which shall have as a part thereof a receptacle or chamber for
receiving and storing coins of the United States money, or a slot or place in
which coins or other acceptable forms of payment may be deposited; a timing
mechanism to indicate the passage of an interval of time during which parking
is permissible; which shall display an appropriate signal when the aforesaid
interval of time shall have elapsed; also brief instructions as to its
operation.
(‘89 Code, § 63.01) (Am. Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.21 LENGTH OF PARKING TIME.
   The length of allowable parking time at metered spaces within the city shall
be designated on the meterhead at the space or on signs located near each space
or in each parking lot. The length of time for any individual meter or any
individual parking space on the street or in any municipally owned lot may be
changed by the official action of the Board of Public Works and Safety at their
discretion.
(‘89 Code, § 63.03) (Am. Ord. 65, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.22 INSTALLATION AND OPERATION OF METERS.
   (A)   Parking meters may be installed in each parking meter zone, street, or
municipally owned or operated parking lot as may be determined from time to
time by the Board of Public Works and Safety and shall be erected upon the curb
or street immediately adjacent to an individual parking space.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have lines or approximate
markings painted upon the curb of the street adjacent to each parking meter
outlining and designating the parking space for which the meter is to be used,
and each vehicle parked adjacent to any parking meter shall be parked within
the lines or markings.
   (C)   Each meter shall indicate by a proper legend the legal parking time
permitted by the insertion of any coin or coins or other acceptable forms of
payment, and when operated shall indicate by proper signal the duration of the
period of legal parking during the immediate period of operation, and on the
expiration of the period shall immediately indicate illegal or overtime
parking. If the meter dispenses a ticket, receipt or other indication of
allowable duration of parking, it shall be displayed in the manner indicated on
the legend on or near the meter.
(‘89 Code, § 63.04) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.23 PARKING METER SPACES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall have lines or appropriate markings
painted upon the curb or street adjacent to each parking meter outlining and
designating the parking meter zone or space for which the meter is to be used,
and each vehicle parked adjacent to any parking meter shall be parked within
these lines or markings.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle across or without the lines or
markings, or park a vehicle in a position that it shall not be entirely within
the space designated by the lines or marks.
(‘89 Code, § 63.05) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.24 LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Public Works may provide, by appropriate markings or lines,
loading zones on streets or parts thereof which may be used by commercial
trucks or delivery trucks for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise
or materials without the erection of parking meters thereon or the requirement
of the deposit of any coin or coins for the purpose only of loading and
unloading. No vehicle shall occupy a loading zone for a period in excess of 30
minutes.
(‘89 Code, § 63.06) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.25 PAYMENT OF METER REQUIRED.
   Whenever a vehicle is parked in an individual parking space where a parking
meter has been installed, the person parking the vehicle shall deposit lawful
money of the United States in the amount designated on the meter for payment
for parking. Parking at all meters in the city shall be at the rate established
for that location by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 63.08) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.26 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Upon deposit of the coin or coins required, which would thus place the
parking meter in operation, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by a
vehicle for the length of time as determined and set out on the meterhead.
   (B)   Charges for the various meters located throughout the city may be set
from time to time by the action of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 63.09)
§ 72.27 HOURS FOR USE OF METERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to vehicles parking or
standing in a parking space adjacent to a parking meter between the hours of 6:
00 p.m. in the evening until 8:00 a.m. the following morning of each weekday
except Friday, when the provisions shall not apply between the hours of 9:00
p.m. Friday evening until 8:00 a.m. Saturday morning. The provisions of this
subchapter shall not apply on Sundays or legal holidays.
(‘89 Code, § 63.10) (Am. Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.28 UNLAWFUL PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle owned or operated by him
or her to be upon any street in any parking meter zone in any space adjacent to
which a parking meter is installed at any time during which the meter is
showing a signal indicating illegal or overtime parking.
(‘89 Code, § 63.11) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   No person shall cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered
in the name of, or operated by the person to be parked overtime or beyond the
period of legal parking time established for any parking meter zone described
in this subchapter.
(‘89 Code, § 63.12)
§ 72.29 PRESUMPTION THAT OWNER PARKED CAR.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any section of this subchapter,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in
violation of any law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint was at the time of the parking registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle
at the point where, and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
(‘89 Code, § 63.13) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.30 DEPOSITS OF SLUGS; TAMPERING WITH METERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any meter a slug,
device or metallic substance, or any other substitute for coin of the United
States.
(‘89 Code, § 63.14)
   (B)   No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break,
destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter.
(‘89 Code, § 63.15)
§ 72.31 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO REPORT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of Police Department, through the use of police
officers or other designated agents of the Department, to report any violations
of this chapter to the Chief of Police. The following information shall be
reported:
      (1)   The number of each parking meter which indicated that the vehicle
occupying the parking space adjacent to the parking meter is or has been parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The state license of the vehicle;
      (3)   The time at which the violation occurred; and
      (4)   Any other facts necessary to a thorough understanding of the
circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   Each police officer or designated agent of the Department shall also
attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof that the
vehicle has been parked in violation of this chapter, and instructing the owner
or operator to report at the police station in regard to the violation. The
notice shall show the time of the violation.
   (C)   Furthermore, the Chief, Deputy Chief and Division Chief of the Fire
Department, in addition to police officers, have the right and authority to
issue and enforce, by issuing citations, violations of §§
72.02(A)(4) and
72.02(A)(12) on all public and private schools and hospital properties in order
to protect the safety, health and welfare of the residents of the city and
their guests.
(‘89 Code, § 63.16) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.32 METER COIN COLLECTORS.
   The Mayor shall designate some member or members of the Police Department to
collect the coins deposited in parking meters. From parking meters equipped
with sealed coin chambers or compartments, the collector shall remove the
chamber and deliver it with seal unbroken to the Clerk-Treasurer. From parking
meters not equipped with sealed coin chambers or compartments, the collector
shall remove the coins from the coin box of each meter so as to permit the
coins to fall unobstructed into the cart, and deliver the same to the Clerk-
Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall count the coins so delivered and deposit
the same to the credit of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 63.18)
§ 72.33 PARKING LAW CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as modifying or
changing to any extent whatsoever the traffic and parking laws set forth in
other portions of this code which restrict or prohibit parking.
(‘89 Code, § 63.20)
§ 72.34 OFF-STREET METER PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to park a suitable motor vehicle in any available
designated parking space in any off-street parking facility in the city for any
length of time without depositing any coin or other acceptable forms of payment
in the parking meter controlling the space when the vehicle shall have properly
affixed an off-street parking permit decal for the current calendar year.
(Am. Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
   (B)   The privilege created by this section shall be on a first come, first
served basis, and shall not guarantee the holder of the permit of the
availability of a parking space.
(‘89 Code, § 63.21)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have prepared a suitable number of decals,
approximately two by two and one-half inches in size, to be known and
designated as an “off-street parking permit.” The decal shall designate the
calendar year for which it is to be issued for use, and from year to year shall
be of a distinctive color clearly contrasting the color of the previous year.
The decal shall bear the words “This permit authorizes the owner or operator of
the vehicle to which it is properly affixed to park the vehicle in any
available designated space in any off-street parking facility of the city
during the year for which it is issued, without placing any coin in the parking
meter controlling the space. This permit is not valid or effected in any on-
street metered or restricted parking space.” The decals shall be numbered
consecutively, beginning with number one, for each year.
(‘89 Code, § 63.22)
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall procure a consecutively numbered receipt
book with numbers corresponding to the permit numbers, with space in which to
indicate the date issued, name of the purchaser and the year and make of the
vehicle to which the permit is to be attached.
(‘89 Code, § 63.23)
   (E)   The fee for each off-street parking permit decal shall be $100 for
each full calendar year, provided that the fee shall be prorated on a monthly
basis to the nearest whole month when purchased after the first day of January
of any year. The fee shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 63.24) (Am. Ord. 65, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
   (F)   The purchaser of a permit may not assign or transfer it to another
person.
(‘89 Code, § 63.25)
   (G)   The funds collected from the sale of the permits shall be allocated as
provided for in §
72.32.
(‘89 Code, § 63.26)
   (H)   No person shall park in any space designated as being restricted to
off-street parking permits without having the permit displayed on the vehicle
being parked, and violation of this division shall be considered to be a
restricted parking violation
(‘89 Code, § 63.28)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.35 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle which does not have a valid
handicapped persons or disabled veteran’s placard or license plate in a parking
space reserved by sign and/or pavement paint for a handicapped person’s
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly park in a reserved handicapped parking space
while displaying a placard or plate to which neither the person nor the
person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   No person shall display for use in a reserved handicapped parking
space a placard or special license plate that was not issued pursuant to the
laws of Indiana or the laws of another state.
   (D)   No person shall park in a handicapped parking space a vehicle that
displays a placard or special license plate entitling a person to park in a
reserved handicapped parking space unless that person is, at that time
handicapped, or in the process of transporting a handicapped person.
(‘89 Code, § 63.27)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.36 FINES.
   (A)   The following is the fine schedule for the various violations of this
chapter:
      (1)   For a two-hour violation, three-hour violation, meter violation or
restricted parking violation, or a “city permit only” violation, a fine of $15;
      (2)   For a no parking violation, alley parking violation, double parking
violation and yellow zone parking violation, a fine of $30;
      (3)   For a handicapped parking violation, fire hydrant parking
violation, fire zone parking violation and fire lane parking violation, a fine
of $75; and
      (4)   Any additional parking violations shall be subject to a fine of
$15.
   (B)   If a violation described in division (A)(1) or (2) occurs, the Police
and Fire Department has the full right and authority to have the vehicle towed
out of the restricted area. The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of having the vehicle towed. These costs
include, but are not limited to, towing services, storage and any damages to
the car arising as a result of the removal of the vehicle.
   (C)   All moneys received under this section shall be receipted into the
Parking Meter Fund.
   (D)   In the event that any fine as indicated under division (A)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) above are not paid within 14 days of the date of issuance, the fine
for the violation shall be doubled. In the event that a vehicle receives more
than one parking ticket on any given calendar day for violation of division (A)
above, the second parking ticket shall carry a fine in the amount of double the
amount of the first ticket and a third parking ticket issued on the same day at
the same location shall carry a fine in the amount of triple the amount of the
first ticket.
(‘89 Code, § 63.17) (Am. Ord. passed 6-27-94; Am. Ord. 2, passed 1-27-97; Am.
Ord. 26-2010, passed 8-23-10)
§ 72.37 VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, certain terms or words
used herein shall be given the following meanings:
      (1)   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which a person or property is,
or may be, transported or drawn upon a street or highway as defined in I.C. 9-
13-2-196.
      (2)   WHEEL LOCK DEVICE. Any device which shall be placed on a wheel of a
vehicle to immobilize the vehicle.
   (B)   Overdue parking fines.  The Council declares that in the event the
owner or operator of a vehicle owes overdue parking fines of $100 or more which
remain unpaid, in addition to any other penalties or fines permitted by law,
the Police Department or any other person or firm that the city may appoint or
hire, may immobilize the vehicle by use of a wheel lock device.
   (C)   Removal of wheel lock. Once a vehicle has been immobilized by the use
of the wheel lock device, the owner or operator of the vehicle can have the
wheel lock removed by paying to the Police Department a $75 service fee for
removal of the wheel lock device in addition to all fines imposed on all
overdue parking violations and/or violations of any other traffic laws of the
state or ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Impoundment. If, after the wheel lock device has been attached to the
vehicle, the owner or operator fails to pay all amounts due in division (C)
above within a 24-hour period (excluding weekends and holidays), the Police
Department may have the vehicle impounded until such time as the owner or
operator has paid the service fee plus all fines imposed on all overdue parking
violations and/or violations of any other traffic laws of the state or
ordinances of the city. The owner or operator of a vehicle that has been
impounded is liable for all charges for towing and storage of the vehicle.
   (E)   Liability for costs. The owner or operator of a vehicle found to be in
violation of this section shall be solely responsible and liable for all costs
incidental to the immobilization of the vehicle and its removal, storage and
disposal.
   (F)   City not liable for loss or damage. The city, its police officers,
agents, representatives and employees shall not be liable for the loss or
damage to any vehicle occurring during the installation or removal of the wheel
lock device and/or the removal, storage or disposition of said vehicle pursuant
to this section.
(Ord. 40-2008, passed 11-10-08)
SNOW EMERGENCY SYSTEM
§ 72.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING LOT. That portion of land set aside for parking of automobiles or
other vehicles, which lots are owned and operated by the city.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of land set aside for pedestrian travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of any land
set aside for vehicular travel that is publicly maintained.
(‘89 code, § 93.01)
§ 72.51 VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   After a snowfall great enough to cause the center of the street or
highway to be plowed, all vehicles must be removed from that street or highway
until both sides of the street or highway are plowed from curb to curb or ditch
to ditch.
   (B)   In the event that a snowfall occurs which creates an emergency
endangering the smooth flow of emergency vehicles and other traffic, the City
Police Department may issue citations requiring the removal of the offending
vehicles from city streets or highways within 24 hours of the issuance of the
citation. During snowfalls the Police Department may designate the Street
Superintendent its representative with the authority to issue citations.
   (C)   The Police Department shall make every reasonable effort to contact
the owner or person exerting control over the vehicles within that time period.
If the cars or vehicles are not removed within the 24-hour period, the city
shall declare the cars or other vehicles to be a hazard to snow removal
operations and cause them to be removed and the owner or person exerting
control over the vehicle will then be responsible for the removal costs.
(‘89 Code, § 93.02) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.52 CITY LOT.
   It shall be unlawful to park any kind of vehicle in a city owned parking lot
from 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. prevailing time. Any vehicle parked in a parking
lot during this time may be towed away and the owner or person exerting control
over the vehicle will be subject to removal costs. This section shall be
applicable at all times and is not restricted to snow emergencies only.
(‘89 Code, § 93.03) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.53 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move snow, or cause snow to be
moved or piled on any sidewalk in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move snow or cause snow to be
moved from any driveway, parking lot, alley, sidewalk or other parcel of land
and deposit the same upon any street, highway or right-of-way of the city. The
City Street Department shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(‘89 Code, § 93.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.54 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person in violation of any provision of this subchapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined for each violation.
   (B)   When any police officer or agent of the city observes a violation of
this subchapter, he or she shall issue or request issuance of a citation
pursuant to this subchapter and shall comply with the notice provisions
contained herein. It shall not be a violation for the initial citation,
provided that the subject vehicle is removed within the 24-hour time limit.
(‘89 Code, § 93.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PARKING IN EAST GATE AND UNIVERSITY PROMENADE AREAS
§ 72.70 EAST GATE PARKING AREA.
   (A)   Eligibility for East Gate Area parking permit.
      (1)   Any property owner who resides within the area identified in
Exhibit "A", which is attached to Ord. 16, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference, possessing a valid driver's license and automobile registration, may
apply to the Board of Works for a parking permit for one parking space in the
East Gate Parking Area, as defined by Exhibit "B" ("East Gate Parking Area"),
which is attached to Ord. 16, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference,
commencing August 14, 2009 and each succeeding year on August 14, except should
August 14 be a weekend or holiday recognized by the Council, than the next
business day shall apply. The submittal of a permit application by any such
resident does not guarantee the approval of the same.
      (2)   The owner of a multiple residential unit structure within the
designated East Gate Parking Area Parking Area that applies for multiple
parking permits for use by tenants must secure a permit application from each
recipient of a permit and maintain a record of each permit application.
Attached to Ord. 15-2018 as Exhibit A, and incorporated herein by reference, is
a form permit application. Upon request by the city, a copy of any such permit
application shall be provided to the city at no charge. Renewal of permits to
owners of a multiple residential unit structure within the designated East Gate
Parking Area need not be approved by the Board of Works.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), no more than one permit can
be registered to the same address/unit at any given time.
   (B)   (1)   The City's Board of Public Works shall adopt a permit
application to be completed by all applicants. Such permit application shall
include a request for following information:
         (a)   The applicant's name and address;
         (b)   The year, make, and license plate number of the permitted
vehicle;
         (c)   A signed acknowledgment of the applicant that he/she resides at
the address given in the permit application;
         (d)   Certify that applicant has no outstanding unpaid city parking
violation and will timely pay any city parking violation while issued a permit;
         (e)   Payment of the appropriate registration fees which is non-
refundable; and
         (f)   A copy of the applicant's license and vehicle registration.
      (2)   Should any information on the permit application change while a
permit is active, the applicant shall provide written notice of such change to
the city.
   (C)   Parking permit hang tag required.
      (1)   The tag shall be placed on the vehicle's rearview minor at all
times when a vehicle is parked in either the East Gate Parking Area Parking
Area and be clearly visible from outside the vehicle. Nothing in this provision
shall prohibit the city, acting through the Board of Works, from reverting back
to the use of parking decals.
      (2)   All administrative functions relating to the issuance of permits
shall be handled by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Tags shall be designated separately for the East Gate Parking Area
and University Promenade Parking Area. Tags for one area shall not authorize
parking in another area.
      (4)   The fee for an annual tag shall be $250. There shall not be any
administrative fees or renewal fees. The replacement fee for a lost tag shall
be $100 if replacement tags are available. No replacement tags shall be issued
prior to December 1.
   (D)   Expiration/renewal of permits.
      (1)   All permits shall expire on July 31 of each year.
      (2)   Any resident or owner possessing a valid parking permit shall have
the opportunity to submit a renewal application starting July 20. Renewals
shall take precedent over new applications.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   An initial administrative fee of $25 and an annual permit fee of
$75 shall be paid upon issuance of a new permit.
      (2)   An annual permit renewal fee of $75 shall be paid thereafter for
those permits which are renewed.
      (3)   A replacement decal fee of $25 shall be collected for a new decal.
   (F)   Issuance and revocation of permits.
      (1)   The permit application for an East Gate Area parking permit shall
be submitted to the Board of Public Works. The Board of Public Works shall
approve or disapprove the application, subject to the provisions of this
section and the number of permits available. Should the number of permit
applications exceed the number of unissued permits, the Board of Works shall
establish a random assignment or some other equitable process to assign
permits.
      (2)   The City's Board of Public Works & Safety shall have the authority
to revoke any parking permit upon a finding of any violation of this section,
and to order the revocation of the parking permit and forfeiture of all fees
paid.
   (G)   Regulations for East Gate Area parking permit holders.
      (1)   Permits shall be restricted to one vehicle;
      (2)   Permits shall be valid until July 31 of each year;
      (3)   Parking spaces shall be used for passenger vehicles only; and
      (4)   Permits shall not be subleased or rented.
   (H)   Disposition of revenue. All funds derived from the granting of permits
shall be placed in the Parking Meter Fund.
   (I)   Violations. Fees for violations of this subchapter follow the schedule
provided in Ordinance 26-2010, as amended and codified in §
72.36 of the City Code. In addition to the foregoing, if a violation of this
section occurs, the City of Valparaiso Police Department and/or its designee
shall have the full right and authority to have the violating vehicle towed.
The owner of the vehicle shall be solely responsible for all costs incurred as
a result of having the vehicle towed.
(Ord. 16, 2009, passed 7-27-09; Am. Ord. 15-2018, passed 8-27-18; Am. Ord. 17-
2021, passed 7-26-21)
§ 72.71 UNIVERSITY PROMENADE PARKING AREA.
   (A)   Eligibility for University Promenade Area parking permit.
      (1)   Any property owner who resides within the area identified in
Exhibit "A", which is attached to Ord. 12-2015 and incorporated herein by
reference, possessing a valid driver's license and automobile registration, may
apply to the Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Valparaiso,
Indiana ("Board of Works"), for a parking permit for one parking space in the
University Promenade Parking Area, as depicted by Exhibit "B" ("University
Promenande Parking Area"), which is attached to Ord. 12-2015 and incorporated
herein by reference, commencing June 1, 2015 and each succeeding year on August
1, except should August 1 be a weekend or holiday recognized by the Common
Council, then the next business day shall apply. The submittal of a permit
application by such residence does not guarantee the approval of same.
      (2)   The owner of a multiple residential unit structure within the
designated University Promenade Parking Area Parking Area that applies for
multiple parking permits for use by tenants must secure a permit application
from each recipient of a permit and maintain a record of each permit
application. Attached to Ord. 15-2018 as Exhibit A, and incorporated herein by
reference, is a form permit application. Upon request by the city, a copy of
any such permit application shall be provided to the city at no charge. Renewal
of permits to owners of a multiple residential unit structure within the
designated University Promenade Parking Area need not be approved by the Board
of Works.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), no more than one permit can
be registered to the same address/unit at any given time.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   The Board of Works shall adopt a permit application to be completed
by all applicants. Such permit application shall include a request for the
following information:
         (a)   The applicant's name and address;
         (b)   The year, make and license plate number of the permitted
vehicle;
         (c)   A signed acknowledgement of the applicant that he/she resides at
the address given in the permit application;
         (d)   Certify that applicant has no outstanding unpaid city parking
violations and will timely pay any city parking violation while issued a
permit;
         (e)   Payment of the appropriate registration fees which is non-
refundable; and
         (f)   C copy of the applicant's vehicle registration.
      (2)   Should any information on the permit application change while a
permit is active, the applicant shall provide written notice of such change to
the city.
   (C)   Parking permit hang tag required.
      (1)   The tag shall be placed on the vehicle's rearview minor at all
times when a vehicle is parked in either the University Promenade Parking Area
and be clearly visible from outside the vehicle. Nothing in this provision
shall prohibit the city, acting through the Board of Works, from reverting back
to the use of parking decals.
      (2)   All administrative functions relating to the issuance of permits
shall be handled by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Tags shall be designated separately for the East Gate Parking Area
and University Promenade Parking Area. Tags for one area shall not authorize
parking in another area.
      (4)   The fee for an annual Tag shall be $250. There shall not be any
administrative fees or renewal fees. The replacement fee for a lost tag shall
be $100 if replacement tags are avai lable. No replacement tags shall be issued
prior to December 1.
   (D)   Expiration/renewal of permits.
      (1)   All permits shall expire on July 31 of each year.
      (2)   Any resident or owner possessing a valid parking permit shall have
the opportunity to submit a renewal application starting July 20. Renewals
shall take precedent over new applications.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   An initial administrative fee of $25 and an annual permit fee of
$200 shall be paid upon issuance of a new permit.
      (2)   An annual permit renewal fee of $200 thereafter for those permits
which are renewed.
      (3)   A replacement decal fee of $25 shall be collected for a new decal.
      (4)   The Board of Works shall have the authority to adjust all fees
under this section.
   (F)   Issuance and revocation of permits.
      (1)   The permit application for a University Promenade Area parking
permit shall be submitted to the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board of
Public Works and Safety shall approve or disapprove the application, subject to
the provisions of this section and the number of permits available. Should the
number of permit applications exceed the number of unissued permits, the Board
of Public Works and Safety shall establish a random assignment or some other
equitable process to assign permits.
      (2)   The City's Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the
authority to revoke any parking permit upon a finding of any violation of this
section, and to order the revocation of the parking permit and forfeiture of
all fees paid.
   (G)   Regulations for University Promenade Area parking permit holders/
permit parking hours. The following regulations shall apply to all University
Promenade Area parking permit holders:
      (1)   Permits shall be registered to one vehicle;
      (2)   Permits shall be valid until July 31 of each year;
      (3)   Parking spaces shall be used for passenger vehicles only; and
      (4)   Permits shall not be subleased or rented.
   (H)   Disposition of revenue. All funds derived from the granting of permits
shall be placed in the Parking Meter Fund.
   (I)   Violations. Fees for violations of this subchapter follow the schedule
provided in Ordinance 26-2010, as amended and codified in §
72.36 of the City Code. In addition to the foregoing, if a violation of this
section occurs, the City of Valparaiso Police Department and/or its designee
shall have the full right and authority to have the violating vehicle towed.
The owner of the vehicle shall be solely responsible for all costs incurred as
a result of having the vehicle
   (J)   Explanation of dates. As referenced in this section, the City Council
adopted Ordinance 16-2009 to address parking congestion near the Uptown
Apartment complex. Recognizing that most parking permits would be used by
apartment residents, who are students at Valparaiso University, the yearly
terms of the permits were August 14 through July 31 of the first year, and
August 1 through July 31 of each succeeding year. The intent of this section is
to follow the same schedule. As such, in the first year, permits will be valid
June 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016. In subsequent years, permits will be valid
August 1 through July 31 of the following year.
   (K)   Joint enforcement by Valparaiso University. As of the adoption of this
section, there have been ongoing discussions with Valparaiso University
concerning the joint enforcement of this section by authorized Valparaiso
University employees/representatives. Such discussions may be memorialized by a
Memorandum of Understanding entered between the City's Board of Public Works
and Safety and Valparaiso University. Such Memorandum of Understanding, as
amended, is incorporated by reference into this section and will outline the
process of joint enforcement by Valparaiso University.
(Ord. 12-2015, passed 6-22-15; Am. Ord. 15-2018, passed 8-27-18; Am. Ord. 17-
2021, passed 7-26-21)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Urban speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Truck routes
   
IV.   Stop intersections
   
V.   Yield intersections
   
VI.   Traffic-control signals
   
VII.   Other traffic-control signs and indicators
SCHEDULE I. URBAN SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for drivers of vehicles to exceed the following
designated speeds on the following designated streets or parts of streets.
Street Location Speed Special Provisions
Street             Location                     Speed Special Provisions
Beech              From 1606 Beech to Calumet   20
                   Avenue
Beech              From 1308 Beech to 1716      20
                   Beech
Bogata             From Joliet Road to Marshall 20
                   Drive
Bullseye Lake Road From Route 49 to Oak Grove   20
Bullseye Lake Road From Campbell Street to      20
                   Summit
Calumet Avenue     From Grand Trunk Railroad to 25
                   1107 Calumet Avenue
Calumet Avenue     From 1107 Calumet Avenue to  35
                   Bullseye Lake Road
                   From 1709 Campbell Street to       Speed limit is in effect
Campbell Street    1228 Campbell Street         20    when yellow light is
                                                      flashing
                                                      Speed limit is in effect
Campbell Street    From Ridgeland to Haas       20    when yellow light is
                                                      flashing
                   From Chestnut to 104               Speed limit is in effect
Campbell Street    Campbell Street              20    when yellow light is
                                                      flashing
Churchview         From Valparaiso Street to    20
                   Bullseye Lake Road
College            From Elm to Oak              20
Coolwood           From Marshall to Joliet Road 20
Country Club Road  From Calumet Avenue to east  30
                   of country club building
Country Club Road  From east of country club    20
                   building to Silhavy Road
Elm                From 503 Elm to Beech Street 20
Elm                From 1405 Elm to Franklin    20
                   Street
Evans Avenue       From 103 Evans Avenue to 506 20
                   Evans Avenue
Evans Avenue       From 305 Evans Avenue to     20
                   Campbell Street
Greenwich          From Oak to Elm              20
Glendale           From Roosevelt Road to       20
                   Monticello
Harrison Boulevard From Kenwood to 500 feet     20
                   west of Yellowstone
Industrial         Industrial park area         30
Jefferson Street   From 351 Jefferson Street to 20
                   Roosevelt Road
LaPorte Avenue     From 814 LaPorte Avenue to   20
                   1901 LaPorte Avenue
LaPorte Avenue     From 1901 LaPorte Avenue to  35
                   2310 LaPorte Avenue
LaPorte Avenue     From 2309 LaPorte Avenue to  35
                   1705 LaPorte Avenue
LaPorte Avenue     From 1705 LaPorte Avenue to  20
                   Garfield
Mayfield           From LaPorte Avenue to the   20
                   dead end of Mayfield
McIntyre Court     From LaPorte Avenue to Union 20
Milton             From Park to Bond            20
Milton             From Ridgeland to Park       20
Montdale           Industrial park area         30
Park               From 1150 Park to Bond       20
                                                      Speed limit is in effect
Roosevelt Road     From Glendale to McCord      20    when yellow light is
                                                      flashing
                                                      Speed limit is in effect
Roosevelt Road     From Oak to Wood             20    when yellow light is
                                                      flashing
Sturdy Road        From 20 yards south of       20
                   Glendale to Glendale
Washington Street  From Monroe to Jefferson     20
                   Street
West Street        From Horseprairie to         20
                   Coolwood
West Street        From 1200 West Street to     20
                   Washington Street
West Street        From Roosevelt Road to       20
                   Northwood Court
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule C)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Vehicular traffic on the following streets or parts of streets shall move
only in the indicated direction, and movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
Street            Location                         Direction
Chicago           From Garfield to Campbell Street West
College           From Lincoln to Union            South
Garfield          From Union to Short              South
Greenwich         From Union to Lincolnway         North
Jefferson Street  From Campbell Street to Garfield East
Valparaiso Street From Lincolnway to Elm           North
Valparaiso Street From Lincolnway to Union         South
Weston            From Park to Chestnut            North
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule D)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets or parts of streets are hereby designated as truck
routes.
Street             Location
Lincolnway         From west city limits east to Sturdy Road and Laporte Avenue
Sturdy Road        From U.S. 30 (Morthland Drive) north to Evans Avenue
LaPorte Avenue     From Lincolnway east to Silhavy Road
Morgan Boulevard   From Lincolnway north to Calumet Avenue
Calumet Avenue     From Morgan Boulevard north to north city limits
Joliet Road        From Lincolnway west to west city limits
Vale Park Road     From S.R. 49 west to Calumet Avenue
Harrison Boulevard From Calumet Avenue west to Campbell Street
Campbell Street    From Harrison Boulevard north to north city limits
Silhavy Road       From LaPorte Avenue north to Vale Park Road
Roosevelt Road     From Lincolnway north to Vale Park Road
Evans Avenue       From Calumet Avenue east to east city limits
 
(‘89 Code, § 66.03) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop signs shall be erected at the following intersections, and drivers of
vehicles in the designated direction(s) shall stop before proceeding through
the intersection.
Location of Intersection Direction(s) of Traffic Required to Stop
Location of Intersection                Direction(s) of Traffic Required to
                                        Stop
325E and Murvihill                      Northbound
Academy and Chicago                     Southbound
Academy and Park                        Northbound and southbound
Ade and Riley                           Eastbound and westbound
Albert and Calumet Avenue               Eastbound
Albert and Valparaiso Street            Westbound
Alice and Chandana Trail                Westbound
Alice and Treaty                        Eastbound
Andover and Bristol                     Westbound
Andover and Campbell Street             Westbound
Appletree and Linden                    Eastbound and westbound
Appletree and Valparaiso Street         Eastbound
Arbordale and Chicago                   Northbound
Axe and Morthland Drive                 Southbound
Bartlett and Evans                      Southbound
Bedford and Andover                     Northbound
Bedford and Worchester                  Northbound and southbound
Bedford and Burlington                  Southbound
Beech and Calumet Avenue                Westbound
Beech and Garfield                      Eastbound and westbound
Beech and Morgan Boulevard              Eastbound and westbound
Beech and Orchard                       Eastbound and westbound
Beech and Roosevelt Road                Eastbound and westbound
Beech and Silhavy                       Eastbound
Beech and Sturdy Road                   Eastbound and westbound
Beech and Valparaiso                    Southbound
Berkley Drive and Glendale              Southbound
Berwick and Eisenhower                  Southbound
Beulah Vista and Glendale               Northbound
Beulah Vista and Harrison               Northbound and Southbound
Beulah Vista and Northview              Southbound
Billings and Calumet                    Westbound
Billings and Calumet Avenue             Eastbound
Billings and Franklin Street            Westbound
Bloomingdale and Bullseye               Southbound
Bloomingdale and Burlington Beech       Northbound
Bloomingdale and Powderhorn             Northbound and southbound
Boca Lago and Glensdale                 Northbound
Boca Lago and McCord                    Eastbound, westbound, northbound,
                                        southbound
Boca Raton and Boca Lago                Westbound
Boca Raton and McCord                   Northbound
Boca Teeka and Boca Raton               Southbound
Boca Teeka and McCord                   Northbound
Bogata and Joliet Road                  Northbound
Boilermaker and Silhavy                 Westbound
Bond and Campbell Street                Eastbound
Bond and Elmhurst                       Eastbound and Westbound
Bond and Milton                         Westbound
Boundary and Campbell Street            Eastbound
Bowman and Eastporte                    Westbound
Brentwood and Burlington Beach          Northbound
Bristol and Fordwick                    Southbound
Brown and College                       Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Franklin Street               Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Garfield                      Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Greenwich                     Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Locust                        Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Morgan Boulevard              Eastbound and westbound
Brown and Napoleon                      Westbound
Brown and University Park               Eastbound
Brown and Washington Street             Westbound
Bullseye and Valparaiso                 Eastbound and westbound
Burlington Beach and Campbell Street    Westbound
Bush and Calumet Avenue                 Eastbound
Bush and Franklin Street                Eastbound and westbound
Bush and Lafayette Street               Eastbound and westbound
Bush and Napoleon                       Eastbound
Byfield and Danvers
Calumet Avenue and Franklin Street      Southbound
Campbell Street and Chicago             Northbound and southbound
Campbell Street and Glendale            Northbound and southbound
Campbell Street and Northview           Northbound and southbound
Campbell Street and Sheffield           Northbound and southbound
Candlewood and Goodrich                 Westbound
Carriage and McCord                     Northbound and southbound
Carrsbrooke and Calumet                 Westbound
Carrsbrooke and Roosevelt               Eastbound
Cascade and Silhavy                     Westbound
Cedar and Sturdy                        Eastbound
Center and Park                         Northbound and southbound
Chamblee and Sturdy Road                Westbound
Chandana Trail and Country Club         Northbound
Chesapeake and McCord                   Northbound and southbound
Chester and Beech                       Northbound
Chestnut and Campbell                   Eastbound and Westbound
Chestnut and Center                     Westbound
Chestnut and Elmhurst                   Eastbound and westbound
Chicago and Campbell Street             Eastbound and westbound
Chicago and Garfield                    Westbound
Chicago and Lincolnway                  Westbound
Chicago and Marks                       Eastbound and westbound
Chicago and Morgan Boulevard            Westbound
Chicago and Roosevelt Road              Eastbound and westbound
Chicago and Silhavy Road                Eastbound
Chicago and Sturdy Road                 Eastbound and westbound
Churchview and Bullseye Lake Road       Northbound
Churchview and Valparaiso Street        Eastbound
Clover and Glendale                     Northbound and southbound
Clover and Northview                    Southbound
Clover and Sheffield                    Northbound and southbound
Club Court and Vale Park Drive          Northbound
College and Beech                       Northbound and southbound
College and Chicago                     Northbound and southbound
College and Freeman                     Southbound
College and Indiana Avenue              Southbound
College and Jefferson Street            Northbound and southbound
College and Lincolnway                  Southbound
College and Monroe                      Southbound
College and Oak                         Northbound and southbound
Commerce and Eastporte                  Eastbound
Coolwood and Joliet Road                Northbound
Coolwood and Marshall                   Northbound and southbound
Coolwood and West                       Southbound
Cori Court and Campbell                 Westbound
Corinth Ave and Beech                   Southbound
Cottage View Lane and Cottage View      Southbound
Terrace
Cottage View Terrace and Campbell       Westbound
Country Club and Silhavy                Eastbound
Courtland and Evans                     Southbound
Courtland and Jonathan                  Northbound
Coventry Circle and Bullseye Lake Road  Southbound
Coventry Circle and Valparaiso Street   Westbound
Cricklewood and Hendon Way              Eastbound
Crockett and Glendale                   Southbound
Crosscreek and Oak Grove                Westbound
Cub Run and Beech Street
Cumberland and Vale Park Road           Northbound and southbound
Cumberland and Wall                     Southbound
Danvers Parkway and Highway 2
Del Vista and Harrison Boulevard        Southbound
DelVista and Harrison                   Southbound
Don Hovey and Nickel Plate              Westbound
Dorset and Appletree                    Northbound and southbound
East Marrew Place and Beech Street
Eastbrooke and Evans                    Northbound
Eastport Centre Drive and Redbow        Southbound
Eisenhower and Crockett                 Eastbound and westbound
Eisenhower and Silhavy                  Eastbound
Eleanor and Emmett                      Eastbound
Eleanor Drive and Hendon Way            Westbound
Elizabeth and Evans                     Northbound
Elm and Calumet Avenue                  Eastbound and westbound
Elm and Franklin Street                 Westbound
Elm and Garfield                        Eastbound and westbound
Elm and Morgan                          Eastbound and westbound
Elm and Roosevelt Road                  Eastbound and westbound
Elmhurst and Chicago                    Southbound
Elmhurst and Hope                       Northbound
Elmhurst and Lincolnway                 Southbound
Elmhurst and Park                       Northbound and southbound
Elmhurst and Prospect                   Northbound and southbound
Emma Court and Pine Creek               Northbound
Emmettsurg and Lincolnway               Westbound
Enterprise and Eastport Centre Dr       Northbound
Enterprise and Transport                Eastbound
Erie and College                        Westbound and westbound
Erie and Franklin Street                Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Garfield                       Westbound
Erie and Greenwich                      Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Lafayette Street               Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Locust                         Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Michigan Street                Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Morgan Boulevard               Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Napoleon                       Eastbound and westbound
Erie and Washington                     Eastbound and westbound
Estero Parkway and Silhavy              Eastbound
Evans Avenue and Franklin Street        Eastbound and westbound
Evans Avenue and Silhavy Road           Eastbound and westbound
Evans Avenue and Sturdy Road            Eastbound and westbound
Evans Avenue and Washington Street      Eastbound and westbound
Evergreen and Bullseye Lake Road        Southbound
Exit road from Taco Bell and frontage   Traffic proceeding on the exit road
road                                    stops
Fair and Calumet Avenue                 Eastbound
Fair and Franklin Street                Eastbound and westbound
Fair and Valparaiso Street              Eastbound and westbound
Fair and Washington Street              Westbound
Farmdale and Bullseye                   Southbound
Farmdale and Green Acres                Eastbound and westbound
Firestone and Marks                     Eastbound
Fleming and Club Court                  Northbound and southbound
Fordwick and Burlington Beach           Southbound
Franklin Street and Calumet Avenue      Southbound
Franklin Street and Erie                Northbound
Franklin Street and Evans Avenue        Northbound and southbound
Franklin Street and Glendale            Northbound
Franklin Street and Harrison Boulevard  Northbound and southbound
Franklin Street and Monroe              Northbound and southbound
Franklin Street and Northview           Northbound and southbound
Freeman and College                     Eastbound and westbound
Freeman and Garfield                    Eastbound and westbound
Freeman and Greenwich                   Eastbound and westbound
Freeman and Linwood                     Eastbound
Freeman and Locust                      Westbound
Galway and Shamrock                     Eastbound
Garfield and Chicago                    Northbound and southbound
Garfield and Jefferson Street           Northbound and southbound
Garfield and Monroe                     Northbound and southbound
Garfield and Oak                        Northbound and southbound
Garfield and Short                      Southbound
Garfield and Union                      Southbound
Gene and Clover                         Westbound
George and Yellowstone                  Southbound and westbound
George and Yellowstone North            Westbound
Gilbralter and McCord                   Northbound
Glasgow and Danvers
Glasgow and Rowley
Glendale and Campbell                   Eastbound and westbound
Glendale and Clover                     Westbound
Glendale and Silhavy Road               Eastbound
Glendale and Sturdy Road                Eastbound and westbound
Glendale and Valparaiso Street          Eastbound and westbound
Golfview and Campbell                   Eastbound
Goodrich and Ranson                     Southbound
Grand Funk and Silhavy                  Westbound
Green Acres and Campbell Street         Westbound
Green Acres and Hemlock                 Eastbound and westbound
Green Acres and Summit                  Eastbound and westbound
Greenwhich Street and Jefferson Street  Northbound and southbound
Greenwich and Beech                     Northbound and southbound
Greenwich and Chicago                   Northbound and southbound
Greenwich and Indiana Avenue            Northbound
Greenwich and Lincolnway                Northbound and southbound
Greenwich and Monroe                    Northbound
Greenwich and Oak                       Northbound and southbound
Greenwich and Union                     Northbound
Grey Fox and Country Club               Northbound
Grove and Campbell Street               Eastbound
Grove and Center                        Eastbound and westbound
Grove and Elmhurst                      Eastbound and westbound
Grove and Milton                        Westbound
Haas and Campbell Street                Westbound
Harmel and Laporte                      Northbound
Harmel and LaPorte Avenue               Southbound
Harrison and Franklin                   Eastbound and westbound
Harrison Boulevard and Calumet Avenue   Eastbound
Harrison Boulevard and Washington       Eastbound and westbound
Street
Hastings and Terrace and Bullseye Lake  Southbound
Road
Hastings Court and Hastings Terrace     Southbound
Hastings Terrace and Victoria           Eastbound and westbound
Hayes-Leonard and Joliet                Northbound
Hemlock and Green Acres                 Northbound and southbound
Hendon Way and Harrison                 Southbound
Hickory and Calumet                     Eastbound
Hickory and Franklin Street             Westbound
High Sierra Dr and Hayes Leonard Road   Westbound
Hollandale and Eisenhower               Southbound
Hope and Elmhurst                       Eastbound and westbound
Hope and Milton                         Westbound
Horizon View Circle and Marrell Hill    Eastbound
Howe and Yellowstone                    Eastbound
Illinois and Roosevelt Road             Eastbound
Indiana Avenue and College              Eastbound and westbound
Indiana Avenue and Garfield             Eastbound
Indiana Avenue and Greenwich            Eastbound and westbound
Indiana Avenue and Lafayette Street     Eastbound and westbound
Indiana Avenue and Morgan Boulevard     Eastbound and westbound
Indiana Avenue and Napoleon             Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Calumet Avenue            Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Franklin Street           Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Garfield                  Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Lafayette Street          Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Michigan Street           Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Morgan Boulevard          Eastbound and westbound
Institute and Napoleon                  Westbound
Institute and Roosevelt                 Westbound
Institute and Roosevelt Road            Eastbound
Institute and Washington Street         Eastbound and westbound
Inverness and Pebble Beach              Southbound
Jefferson Street and Campbell Street    Eastbound
Jefferson Street and Garfield           Eastbound and westbound
Jefferson Street and Morgan Boulevard   Eastbound
Jefferson Street and Roosevelt Road     Eastbound
Jet Corr Frontage Road at access        Northbound and southbound
John Glenn and Campbell Street          Westbound
John Glenn and Linden                   Eastbound
John Howell Drive and Silhavy Road      Westbound
Kellogg and Evans                       Northbound
Kentucky and Roosevelt Road             Eastbound
Kestrel and Tanager                     Northbound
Killarney and Galway                    Eastbound and westbound
Kraus and Valparaiso                    Eastbound
Lafayette Street and Chicago            Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Evans Avenue       Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Glendale           Northbound
Lafayette Street and Harrison Boulevard Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Indiana Avenue     Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Jefferson Street   Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Monroe             Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Northview          Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Street and Willow             Northbound and southbound
Lake Meadow and Ranson                  Southbound
Lakepointe Drive and Vale Park Road     Southbound
Lakeside and Valparaiso                 Eastbound
Laporte and Garfield                    Westbound
Leonard Drive and Eastport Centre Drive Eastbound and eastbound
Linden and Appletree                    Southbound and northbound
Linden and Glendale                     Southbound
Linden and Sheffield                    Northbound and southbound
Linwood and Garfield                    Northbound
Linwood and Morthland Drive             Southbound
Locust and Beech                        Northbound and southbound
Locust and Chicago                      Northbound and southbound
Locust and Elm                          Northbound and southbound
Locust and Indiana Avenue               Northbound and southbound
Locust and Jefferson Street             Northbound and southbound
Locust and Lincolnway                   Northbound and southbound
Locust and Monroe                       Northbound and southbound
Locust and Oak                          Northbound and southbound
Locust and Union                        Northbound and southbound
Locust and Union                        Northbound and southbound
Logan and Joliet                        Southbound
Lorraine and Campbell Street            Eastbound
Lytle and Bush                          Northbound
Lytle and Elm                           Southbound
Madison and Bond                        Southbound
Madison and Chestnut                    Northbound and southbound
Madison and Chicago                     Northbound
Madison and Chicago                     Southbound
Madison and Grove                       Northbound
Madison and Hope                        Northbound
Madison and Hope                        Northbound
Madison and Lincolnway                  Southbound
Madison and Park                        Southbound
Madison and Ridgeland                   Northbound and southbound
Marian and Coolwood                     Westbound
Marian Street and Yellowstone           Westbound
Marks and Chicago                       Northbound and southbound
Marks and Lincolnway                    Southbound
Marquette and Valley                    Eastbound
Marquette and Valparaiso Street         Westbound
Marrell Hill and Hendon Way             Eastbound
Marsh and One                           Eastbound and westbound
Marsh and West                          Northbound
Marshall and Coolwood                   Eastbound and westbound
Martin and Sturdy Road                  Westbound
Mayfield and LaPorte Avenue             Northbound and southbound
McCord and Calumet Avenue               Westbound
McCord and Monticello Park              Eastbound and westbound
McCord and Roosevelt Road               Eastbound
McCord and Silhavy                      Eastbound
McCord and Sturdy Road                  Eastbound and westbound
McIntyre Court and LaPorte Avenue       Northbound
McIntyre Court and Union                Southbound
McKinley and Calumet Avenue             Eastbound
McKinley and Franklin                   Eastbound and westbound
McKinley and Lafayette                  Eastbound and westbound
McKinley and Napoleon                   Westbound
McKinley and Valparaiso Street          Eastbound and westbound
McKinley and Washington Street          Eastbound and westbound
Meadow Lane and Clover                  Westbound
Meadow Lane Drive and Campbell          Westbound
Meadow Lane Drive and Summit            Eastbound
Mesgher and Lincolnway                  Southbound
Michigan and Brown                      Southbound
Michigan and Evans                      Southbound
Michigan and Harrison                   Northbound
Michigan Street and Calumet             Northbound
Michigan Street and Chicago             Northbound and southbound
Michigan Street and Indiana Avenue      Northbound and southbound
Michigan Street and Jefferson Street    Northbound and southbound
Michigan Street and Monroe              Northbound and southbound
Milton and Park                         Northbound and southbound
Monroe and Franklin Street              Eastbound and westbound
Monroe and Garfield                     Eastbound and westbound
Monroe and Lafayette Street             Eastbound and westbound
Monroe and Morgan Boulevard             Eastbound and westbound
Monroe and Napoleon                     Westbound
Monroe and Washington Street            Eastbound and westbound
Monticello Park and Evans Avenue        Southbound
Monticello Park and Glendale            Northbound
Monticello Park and McCord              Northbound and southbound
Morgan and Indiana                      Northbound and southbound
Morgan Boulevard and Monroe             Northbound and southbound
Mound and Garfield                      Eastbound and westbound
Mound and Greenwich                     Westbound
Mound and Linwood                       Eastbound
Murvihill and Industrial                Eastbound and westbound
Napoleon and Chicago                    Northbound and southbound
Napoleon and Glendale                   Northbound
Napoleon and Harrison Boulevard         Northbound and southbound
Napoleon and Indiana Avenue             Northbound and southbound
Napoleon and Jefferson Street           Northbound and southbound
Napoleon and Northview                  Northbound and southbound
Napoleon and Northview                  Eastbound and westbound
Northview and Campbell Street           Eastbound and westbound
Northview and Clover Lane               Westbound
Northview and Franklin Street           Eastbound and westbound
Northview and Lafayette Street          Eastbound and westbound
Northview and Valparaiso Street         Eastbound
Northview and Washington Street         Eastbound and westbound
Northwood Court and Chester             Westbound
Northwood Court and Parkside            Eastbound and westbound
Northwood Court and Wood                Westbound
Oak and Calumet Avenue                  Westbound
Oak and Garfield                        Eastbound and westbound
Oak and Michigan Street                 Eastbound and westbound
Oak and Morgan Boulevard                Eastbound and westbound
Oak and Roosevelt Road                  Eastbound
Oak Grove and Bullseye Lake Road        Southbound
Oakgrove and Burlington Beach           Northbound
Oakgrove and Cross Creek                Northbound and Southbound
Old Oak and Sherwood                    Northbound and southbound
Old Oak Drive and Harrison Boulevard    Southbound
Olive Hill Drive and Beech Street
Orchard and Beach                       Southbound
Orchard and Elm                         Northbound
Park and Elmhurst                       Eastbound and westbound
Park and Milton                         Four-way
Park and Napoleon                       Eastbound
Park and Yellowstone                    Eastbound and westbound
Parker and Churchview                   Northbound, Southbound and Eastbound
Parkside and Beech                      Northbound and southbound
Parkside and Northwood Court            Southbound
Parkway and Chicago Street
Parkwood and Chicago                    Northbound
Peachtree and McCord                    Northbound and southbound
Peachtree and Riley                     Northbound and southbound
Pebble Beach and Silhavy                Eastbound
Penwick and Worthington                 Eastbound
Petersen and marsh                      Eastbound
Petersen and Thornapple Circle          Eastbound and westbound
Peterson and Southpoint                 Eastbound
Pine and Franklin Street                Eastbound
Pine and Lafayette Street               Eastbound and westbound
Pine and Napoleon                       Westbound
Pine and Washington                     Eastbound and westbound
Pine Creek and Evans                    Southbound
Pineview and Campbell                   Westbound
Poplar and Morgan Boulevard             Westbound
Powderhorn and Hemlock                  Westbound
Powderhorn and Hemlock                  Eastbound
Powderhorn and Valparaiso Street        Eastbound
Prospect and Center                     Eastbound and westbound
Prospect and Elmhurst                   Eastbound
Randle and Calumet Avenue               Eastbound
Randle and Franklin Street              Westbound
Randle and Valparaiso Street            Eastbound and westbound
Raystone and Montdale                   Northbound
Rebecca and Glendale                    Southbound
Renna Hill and Strongbow Centre Drive   Eastbound
Ridgeland and Campbell Street           Eastbound
Ridgeland and Center                    Eastbound and westbound
Ridgeland and Elmhurst                  Eastbound and Westbound
Ridgeland and Milton                    Westbound
Riley and Carriage                      Northbound
Riley and Evans Avenue                  Southbound
Roane and Campbell Street               Eastbound
Roane and Clover                        Westbound
Roanoke Court and Vale Park Road        Southbound
Rock Castle Park and Monticello Park    Westbound
Rock Dove and Kestrel                   Eastbound
Rock Dove and Silhavy                   Westbound
Roosevelt and Laporte                   Southbound
Roosevelt Road and Beech                Northbound and southbound
Roseland Terrace and Campbell Street    Westbound
Rowley and Byfield
Rowley and Danvers
Saugus and Byfield
Savoy and Victoria                      Eastbound
Sears and John Glenn                    Northbound and southbound
Shaker and Eisenhower                   Northbound and southbound
Shaker and Fleming                      Northbound
Shaker and Glendale                     Southbound
Shaker and Penwick                      Northbound
Shamrock and Galway                     Westbound
Shamrock Lane and Joliet Road           Southbound
Shannon and Appletree                   Northbound and southbound
Sheffield and Berkley                   Eastbound
Sheffield and Campbell Street           Eastbound and westbound
Sheffield and Clover                    Eastbound and westbound
Sheffield and Clover                    Eastbound and westbound
Sheffield and Linden                    Eastbound and westbound
Short and Greenwich                     Westbound
Silhavy Circle and Silhavy Road         Westbound
Silhavy Road and Evans Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Silhavy Road and Vale Park Road         Northbound and southbound
Sleighbell and Powderhorn               Northbound and southbound
Somerset and Valparaiso Street          Eastbound
South and Franklin                      Northbound
South and Washington Street             Westbound
South George Street and Yellowstone     Westbound
Southpoint and Marsh                    Four-way
Springfield and Bullseye Lake Road      Southbound
Spyglass and Augusta                    Northbound
Spyglass and Pebble Beach               Southbound
St. Joseph and Bogato                   Eastbound
St. Joseph and Coolwood                 Eastbound and westbound
Stanley and Franklin Street             Westbound
Stanley and Valparaiso Street           Eastbound
Stokes and Joliet                       Northbound
Stokes and Joliet Road                  Northbound
Stratford and Victoria                  Eastbound
Strongbow Frontage Road N and Morthland Southbound
Strongbow Frontage Road N and Hotel     Eastbound, westbound, southbound
Sturdy and Lincolnway                   Southbound
Sturdy Road and Eisenhower              Northbound and southbound
Sturdy Road and Evans Avenue            Northbound and southbound
Sturdy Road and Glendale                Northbound
Sturdy Road and McCord Road             Northbound and southbound
Summit and Bullseye Lake Road           Southbound
Summit and Green Acres                  Northbound and southbound
Sunflower and Churchview                Northbound, Southbound and Eastbound
Sunset and Bullseye Lake Road           Southbound
Sunset and Green Acres                  Northbound and southbound
Sycamore and Calumet                    Westbound
Tanager and Silhavy                     Westbound
Throughwoods and Marrell Hill           Southbound
Transport and Redbow                    Southbound
Treaty and Country Club                 Northbound
Union and College                       Eastbound and westbound
Union and Greenwich                     Eastbound and westbound
Union and Linwood                       Eastbound and westbound
Union and Locust                        Eastbound and westbound
Union and McIntyre                      Eastbound and westbound
Union and Morgan Boulevard              Westbound
Union and University                    Eastbound and westbound
University Park and Union               Southbound
Vale Park Road and Valparaiso Street    Westbound
Vale Park Road and Silhavy Road         Eastbound and westbound
Valley Drive and Vale Park Road         Northbound
Valley Drive and Wall                   Southbound
Valparaiso and Vale Park                Northbound and southbound
Valparaiso Street and Beech             Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Brown             Southbound
Valparaiso Street and Bullseye Lake     Northbound and southbound
Road
Valparaiso Street and Burlington Beach  Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Chicago           Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Erie              Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Evans Avenue      Southbound
Valparaiso Street and Glendale          Northbound and southbound
Valparaiso Street and Harrison          Northbound and southbound
Boulevard
Valparaiso Street and Indiana Avenue    Southbound
Valparaiso Street and Jefferson Street  Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Monroe            Southbound
Valparaiso Street and Oak               Northbound
Valparaiso Street and Union             Southbound
Vernon Hill and Hendon Way              Eastbound
Victoria and Coventry Circle            Southbound
Village and Vale Park Road              Southbound
Wall and Calumet Avenue                 Eastbound
Wall and Valparaiso Street              Westbound
Walnut and Franklin Street              Eastbound
Walnut and Lafayette Street             Eastbound and westbound
Walnut and Washington Street            Eastbound and westbound
Warbler and Sturdy Road                 Westbound
Washington Street and Chicago           Northbound and southbound
Washington Street and Evans Avenue      Northbound and southbound
Washington Street and Glendale          Northbound
Washington Street and Harrison          Northbound and southbound
Boulevard
Washington Street and Monroe            Northbound and southbound
Washington Street and Northview         Northbound and southbound
Washington Street and Willow            Northbound and southbound
Wayne and Chestnut                      Northbound
Wayne and Chicago                       Northbound and southbound
Wayne and Jefferson Street              Northbound and southbound
Wayne and Lincolnway                    Southbound
Wegener and Evans                       Northbound
Wellington and Valparaiso Street        Westbound
Wellington and Victoria                 Eastbound
West and Baford Entrance                Eastbound and westbound
West and Campbell                       Westbound
West and Coolwood                       Eastbound and westbound
West and Horsepraire                    Eastbound
West and Morthland Past Coolwood        Southbound
West and Sementos                       Eastbound, westbound and southbound
West and Washington Street              Eastbound
West Heuring and Chevrolet              Eastbound and westbound
West Marrew Place and Beech St
Weston and Chestnut                     Northbound and southbound
Weston and Chicago                      Northbound and southbound
Weston and Lincolnway                   Southbound
Westside and Joliet                     Northbound
White Pine and Glendale                 Southbound
White Pine and White Pine               Westbound
Whither and Tuckahoe                    Northbound
Whitney and Glendale                    Southbound
Whittier Park and Monticello Park       Westbound
William Drive and Harrison              Southbound
William Drive and Old Oak               Eastbound and Westbound
Willow and Franklin Street              Eastbound
Willow and Lafayette Street             Eastbound and westbound
Willow and Napoleon                     Westbound
Willow Street and Washington            Eastbound and westbound
Wood and Garfield                       Westbound
Wood and Marks                          Eastbound
Wood and Marks                          Westbound
Wood and Roosevelt                      Eastbound and westbound
Wood and Sturdy                         Eastbound
Worcester and Campbell Street           Westbound
Worthington and Eisenhower              Northbound and southbound
Worthington and Fleming                 Northbound
Worthington and Glendale                Northbound and southbound
Worthington and Peachtree               Southbound
Yellowstone and Harrison Boulevard      Northbound
Yellowstone and Lincolnway              Southbound
Yellowstone and Park                    Northbound and southbound
Yorktowne Access Road and Glendale      Northbound
Yorktowne and Sturdy                    Westbound
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule E)
SCHEDULE V. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   At the following intersections, vehicles traveling on the streets designated
in the right-hand column shall yield the right-of-way to the traffic traveling
on the streets designated in the left-hand column.
Street Yield Street Direction(s) of Traffic Required to Yield
Street            Yield Street       Direction(s) of Traffic Required to Yield
Appletree         Sears              Westbound
Ashebourne Court  Hampstead          Westbound
Aster             Lakepointe         Westbound
Berkley           Somerset           Northbound
Beulah Vista      Evans Avenue       Southbound
Bond              Center             Eastbound and westbound
Bond              Elmhurst           Eastbound and westbound
Bush              Washington Street  Eastbound and westbound
Calaveras         Sonoma
Calvin            Harrison Boulevard Northbound
Chamblee          Peachtree          Eastbound
Cherokee          Greyfox
Chesapeake Park   McCord             Eastbound
Chestnut          Academy            Eastbound and westbound
Cheyenne          Chandana
Columbine         Lakepointe         Westbound
Dorset            Somerset           Northbound
Dunwoody          Peachtree          Westbound
Dunwoody          Carriage           Eastbound
East Marrew Place Powderly Road
Emmett Court      William Drive
Erie              Greenwich          Eastbound and westbound
Fairlane          McCord             Northbound
Fernhill          Sheffield          Southbound
Forest Park       Harrison Boulevard Southbound
Forest Park       Northview          Northbound
Gene              Clover             Westbound
Green Acres       Bloomingdale       Eastbound
Grove             Elmhurst           Eastbound and westbound
Haas              Academy            Eastbound and westbound
Haas              Napoleon           Eastbound
Hampstead         Manchester Drive
Hastings Terrace  Victoria           Eastbound and westbound
High              Sears              Westbound
High              Linden             Eastbound
Highland          Bloomingdale       Eastbound
Horseprairie      West               Northbound
Institute         Valparaiso Street  Eastbound and westbound
Institute         Locust             Eastbound and westbound
Institute         College            Eastbound and westbound
Institute         Greenwich          Eastbound and westbound
Kenwood           Harrison Boulevard Northbound
Lakeside          Valparaiso Street  Eastbound
Lorraine          Clover             Westbound
Madison           Chestnut           Northbound and southbound
Madison           Park               Southbound
Manchester Court  Manchester Drive
McKinley          Franklin Street    Eastbound and westbound
McKinley          Lafayette Street   Eastbound and westbound
Napoleon          Evans Avenue       Southbound
Nickel Plate      Axe                Eastbound
Oil Oak           Sherwood           Northbound and southbound
Olive Hill Drive  Powderly Road
Pine              Washington Street  Eastbound and westbound
Powderhorn        Hemlock            Eastbound
Prospect          Center             Eastbound and westbound
Ridgeland         Elmhurst           Eastbound and westbound
Shadowood Court   Greyfox
Shallowford       Peachtree          Westbound
Spring            South              Southbound
Truman            Crocket            Eastbound and westbound
Tuckahoe Park     McCord             Northbound
Valparaiso Street Elm                Northbound
Vine              Sheffield          Northbound and southbound
West              Cambell            Westbound
West Marrew Place Powderly Road
William Court     William Drive
Worthington       Peachtree          Southbound
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule F)
SCHEDULE VI. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Traffic-control signals shall be located at the following intersections.
Location
Campbell Street and Park
Campbell Street and Harrison Boulevard
Campbell Street and Bullseye Lake Road
Franklin Street and Chicago
Franklin Street and Jefferson Street
Franklin Street and Indiana Avenue
Roosevelt Road and Evans Avenue
Washington Street and Jefferson Street
Washington Street and Indiana Avenue
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule B)
SCHEDULE VII. OTHER TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   The following traffic-control signs and indicators shall be positioned at or
encompass the following areas.
Sign/Indicator                 Location
No Outlet                      Silhavy (200 E) south of Menards
School Bus Stop Ahead          Joliet Road curve east of Hayes Leonard Road
Handicap Sign                  Treaty Drive north and south of Alice Street
                               intersection
No Passing Zone                Glendale from Sturdy Road to Roosevelt Road
Children in Area               McKinley between Valparaiso Street and Franklin
                               Street
No Exit                        Exit from Family Express southbound onto Silhavy
                               Road
Right Turn Only                Exit from Family Express northbound onto Silhavy
                               Road
No Left Turn to Family Express West side of Silhavy Road for southbound traffic
Enter Family Express           West side of Silhavy Road for southbound
                               traffic, north of John Howell Drive
Double solid yellow line       Franklin Street between Chicago Street and
                               Jefferson Street
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule G)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Parking meter zones
   
III.   Parking permit zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall, at any time, park a vehicle upon any of the following
described streets or parts of streets.
 
Street         Location
Calumet Avenue 2100 block
 
(‘89 Code, Schedule G)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING METER ZONES.
   (A)   The following designated streets or parts of streets are hereby
declared to be parking meter zones.
   (B)   Parking at metered spaces shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 72.
Street            Location                                             Side(s)
Franklin Street   Between Indiana Avenue and Jefferson Street          Both
Indiana Avenue    Between Michigan Street and Lafayette Street         Both
Jefferson Street  Between Michigan Street and Lafayette Street         Both
Lafayette Street  Between Indiana Avenue and Jefferson Street          Both
Lincolnway        Between Morgan Boulevard and Napoleon Street         Both
Michigan Street   Between Indiana Avenue and Jefferson Street          Both
Washington Street Between Indiana Avenue and Jefferson Street          Both
                  The city parking lot on the south side of Chicago
                  Street between Lafayette Street and Napoleon Street
                  The city parking lot at the northwest corner of
                  Jefferson Street and Washington Street
                  The city parking lot at the northwest corner of
                  Jefferson Street and Lafayette Street
                  The city parking lot at the southwest corner of
                  Jefferson Street and Morgan Boulevard
                  The city parking lot at the northeast corner of
                  Lincolnway and Michigan Street
                  The city parking lot at the southeast corner of
                  Indiana Avenue and Lafayette Street
                  The city parking lot at the southwest corner of
                  Monroe Street and Franklin Street
                  The city parking lot located on the southeast corner
                  of Jefferson Street and Napoleon Street
                  The parking lot located on the southeast corner of
                  Indiana Avenue and Michigan Street
 
(‘89 Code, § 63.02) (Am. Ord. passed - - : Am. Ord. 27-2010, passed 8-23-10)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PERMIT ZONES.
   (A)   The following designated municipally owned or operated parking lots
are hereby declared to be parking permit zones.
   (B)   Parking permit spaces shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter
72.
Parking Lot Location
(1)   South side of Chicago Street between Lafayette Street and Napoleon Street
(2)   Northwest corner of Jefferson Street and Washington Street
(3)   Northwest corner of Jefferson Street and Lafayette Street
(4)   Southwest corner of Jefferson Street and Morgan Boulevard
(5)   Northeast corner of Lincolnway and Michigan Street
(6)   Southeast corner of Indiana Avenue and Lafayette Street
(7)   Southwest corner of Monroe Street and Franklin Street
(8)   Southeast corner of Jefferson Street and Napoleon Street
(9)   Southeast corner of Indiana Avenue and Michigan Street
 
(Ord. 27-2010, passed 8-23-10)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
   
92.   CITY CEMETERIES
   
93.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
   
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
APPENDIX: WAIVER OF OBJECTION TO INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALK AND ASSESSMENT
THEREOF
   
96.   NOISE
      
APPENDIX A: SCIENTIFIC DEFINITIONS
      
APPENDIX B: OCTAVE-BAND BREAKDOWNS
   
97.   NONSMOKING AREAS
   
98.   FIREWORKS
   
99.   PROHIBITION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
   
100.   FUNERAL PROTESTS
   
101.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
102.   COLLECTION BOXES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Finding
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Liability of owner
   
90.04   Notice tags
   
90.05   Abandoned vehicle report
   
90.06   Disposition and sale of stored vehicles
   
90.07   Bill of sale; title; fee
   
90.08   Options for removal
   
90.09   Vehicles left on private property; complaints
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage to vehicles during removal, storage or
disposition
   
90.11   Proceeds of sale credited against costs
   
90.12   Abandoned vehicle account
   
90.13   Exempt vehicles
§ 90.01 FINDING.
   The City Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
(‘89 Code, § 76.01)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on the private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance, if the
vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his or her
agent within 15 days of its removal; and/or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from the public property for more than 30 days.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU.  The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   FISCAL BODY. The City Council.
   OFFICER.
      (1)   A regular member of the State Police;
      (2)   A regular member of a city or town police department;
      (3)   A regular member of the County Police Department; or
      (4)   An individual of an agency designated by ordinance of the fiscal
body.
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under state law.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The bureau or local agency given the responsibility by
statute or ordinance for removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing disabled
vehicles and, once removed, to store or impound vehicles.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semitrailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(‘89 Code, § 76.02)
§ 90.03 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment
and is liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage and
disposal of the vehicle or the parts.
   (B)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner and the person cannot establish his or her right to the
possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place. The Bureau shall be notified within 72 hours of the location
and description of the vehicle.
   (C)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
   (D)   If the properly identified owner or lienholder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle or parts shall be released.
A copy of the release of all vehicles or parts shall be sent to the Bureau. The
release must contain the owner or lienholder’s signature, name, address,
vehicle or parts description, costs and date of release.
   (E)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lienholder, the Bureau
shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 76.03)
§ 90.04 NOTICE TAGS.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal, and if not paid the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within
72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle to an automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the
Bureau. The public agency disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(‘89 Code, § 76.05)
§ 90.05 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage area
under §
90.04, the public agency shall prepare and forward to the Bureau an abandoned
vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle including the make,
model, engine number, if any, identification number and the number of the
license plate, and request that the Bureau advise the public agency of the name
and most recent mailing address of the owner and any lienholder.
(‘89 Code, § 76.06)
§ 90.06 DISPOSITION AND SALE OF STORED VEHICLES.
   If the vehicle or parts are in such a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
owner or lienholder, the vehicle may be disposed of without notice.
(‘89 Code, § 76.07)
§ 90.07 BILL OF SALE; TITLE; FEE.
   The purchaser shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned vehicle
sold by the public agency. The fee for the bill of sale is $6. Should the
purchaser wish to obtain a title for the vehicle acquired, he or she shall
present evidence from a law enforcement agency that the vehicle is roadworthy
and pay the appropriate title fee.
(‘89 Code, § 76.08)
§ 90.08 OPTIONS FOR REMOVAL.
   In order to facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the
public agency may employ personnel and acquire equipment, property and
facilities, and enter into towing contracts as necessary for the purpose of
removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles and parts. The fiscal
body may establish, by ordinance, procedures to accomplish the purposes of this
section.
(‘89 Code, § 76.09)
§ 90.09 VEHICLES LEFT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; COMPLAINTS.
   Upon complaint of a private property owner or person in control of the
property that a vehicle has been left on the property for 48 hours or more
without the consent of the owner or person in control, an officer shall follow
the procedures set forth in §
90.04.
(‘89 Code, § 76.10)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE TO VEHICLES DURING REMOVAL, STORAGE OR
DISPOSITION.
   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor a public agency, officer, towing
service or automobile scrapyard is liable for loss or damage to the vehicle or
parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(‘89 Code, § 76.11)
§ 90.11 PROCEEDS OF SALE CREDITED AGAINST COSTS.
   The proceeds of sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts shall be credited
against all costs incident to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 76.12)
§ 90.12 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   All proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts that are sold by
local units, including charges for bills of sale, and all monies received from
owners or lienholders for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles shall be
deposited with the City Clerk-Treasurer and placed by him or her in the
Abandoned Vehicle Account. All costs incurred by a public agency in
administering this chapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Account.
The fiscal body shall annually appropriate sufficient monies to that account
for the purposes of this chapter. All monies remaining in the account at the
end of each year remain in the account and do not revert to the General Fund.
(‘89 Code, § 76.13)
§ 90.13 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-13-2-3 as an antique
vehicle.
(‘89 Code, § 76.14)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   General animal care requirements
   
91.04   Sale of animals as novelties or use as prize prohibited; exceptions
   
91.05   Motor vehicle accident involving animals
   
91.06   Animals in motor vehicles
   
91.07   Poisoning of animals
   
91.08   Trapping of animals restricted
   
91.09   Maximum number of domestic animals
   
91.10   Acreage requirements for certain domestic animals; prohibition of swine
   
91.11   Owners or agents responsible for removing animal wastes and dead
animals
   
91.12   Leash regulations
   
91.13   Animal bites
   
91.14   Mandatory vaccination of dogs and cats
   
91.15   Interference with humane officer prohibited
   
91.16   Exclusion of service dogs prohibited
   
91.17   Dangerous and poisonous animals prohibited
   
91.18   Impoundment procedures
   
91.19   Protected animals
   
91.20   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
91.21   Seizure of certain animals
   
91.22   Serious injury or death
   
91.23   Inspection
   
91.24   Chickens
   
91.25   Honey bees
   
91.26   Sale of dogs or cats by retail pet stores prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited and referred to as the
“Animal Control Ordinance.”
(‘89 Code, § 111.01) (Am. Ord. 04-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave drop off or otherwise dispose of any live animal
on public or private property without providing the requisite care prescribed
under §
91.03.
   AGENT. Any person 18 years or older who is authorized by the animal’s owner
to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to his or her animal(s).
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human, vertebrate, or invertebrate creature that is
domestic, wild, or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with and given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person authorized to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition, or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility established by the County Board of
Commissioners and operated by the designated animal control authority or its
authorized agents or a private entity, for the temporary care, confinement,
detention, and humane treatment of animals held under the authority of this
chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. An animal that is:
      (1)   Not on a leash and is off the property of its owner, its owner’s
agent, or its keeper; or
      (2)   On a leash that does not adequately confine the animal to the
property of its owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper; or
      (3)   On a leash that is not otherwise under the immediate control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded by means of auction sale, except for those facilities otherwise defined
in this chapter or state law.
   BITE. To seize, tear, wound, or cut with the teeth, resulting in a break in
the skin. 
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Porter County.
   BREEDER. Any person or for-profit business or corporation which harbors or
keeps dogs or cats, and allows or causes those animals to procreate, for the
purpose of selling those offspring.
   CIRCUS. Any performances, which are given for a fee, by traveling companies
on vacant lots, using tents, or some other kind of temporary enclosure for
sheltering the public.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition
or kennel.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL.  Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this
chapter with the exception of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious
animals, nonpoisonous reptilian animals, small cage birds, and psittacine.
CONTROLLED ANIMALS shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes.
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees, gibbons, gorillas, orangutans, and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Bears;
      (5)   Bison;
      (6)   Cheetahs;
      (7)   Crocodilians;
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, such as boa, python, and anaconda;
      (9)   Coyotes;
      (10)   Deer, including all members of the deer family, such as white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope, and moose;
      (11)   Elephants;
      (12)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami;
      (14)   Hyenas;
      (15)   Jaguars;
      (16)   Leopards;
      (17)   Lions;
      (18)   Lynxes;
      (19)   Monkeys;
      (20)   Ostriches;
      (21)   Pumas, also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (22)   Rhinoceros;
      (23)   Sharks;
      (24)   Snow leopards;
      (25)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (26)   Tigers;
      (27)   Wolves.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner or his or her
agent to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
   COUNTY ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD. The agency designated or appointed, by the
Board of County Commissioner of Porter County, as having the responsibility for
the administration of any or all of the provisions of this chapter.
   CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
      (1)   Means:
         (a)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly or
intentionally entering the real property of another person after having been
denied entry by the other person or his or her agent;
         (b)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly or
intentionally refusing to leave the real property of another person after
having been asked to leave by the other person or his or her agent;
         (c)   Accompanying another person in a vehicle, with knowledge that
the other person knowingly or intentionally is exerting unauthorized control
over the other vehicle;
         (d)   Knowingly or intentionally interfering with the possession or
use of the property of another person without his or her consent; or
         (e)   Not having a contractual interest in the property, knowingly or
intentionally entering the dwelling of another person without his or her
consent.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, a person has been denied entry if the
denial was by means of personal communication, oral or written, or by putting
or exhibiting a notice at the main entrance in a manner that is either
prescribed by law or likely to come to the attention of the public.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (a)   Has attacked or bitten another animal while off the property of
its owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper;
         (b)   Has attacked, attempted to attack, bitten, or seriously injured
any human being, without provocation, whether on or off the property of its
owner, its owner’s agent, or its keeper;
         (c)   Has history, documented with a public agency or its designee, of
attacking or biting any humans or domestic animals;
         (d)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to
cause injury, or to otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
         (e)   Has been found to be at large and has been documented to be at
large by an animal control officer on three or more separate occasions in a 12-
month period; or
      (2)   No animal shall be considered a dangerous animal if the animal
causes injury or damage to a person while that person is:
         (a)   Committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against
the owner or agent of the owner;
         (b)   Committing a criminal trespass upon the premises occupied by the
owner, agent, or keeper of the animal; or
         (c)   Teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
      (3)   No K-9 patrol dogs or police dogs owned or kept by a law
enforcement agency shall be considered a dangerous animal when used in the line
of duty or for law enforcement purposes.
   DESIGNEE.  A person, organization, or entity selected appointed, or
nominated for a particular purpose or duty.
   DIRECTOR. The person appointed to be responsible for the administration,
operation and programs of the shelter and its personnel, as established by the
Animal Control Authority.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Livestock or animals belonging to species normally kept,
harbored, and maintained by persons as pets, irrespective of the particular
reason for which the animal is kept or maintained. These animals include but
are not limited to the following species:
      (1)   Dog;
      (2)   Cat;
      (3)   Cattle;
      (4)   Horse;
      (5)   Donkey;
      (6)   Sheep;
      (7)   Goat;
      (8)   Rabbit;
      (9)   Mouse;
      (10)   Rat;
      (11)   Guinea pig;
      (12)   Hamster;
      (13)   Gerbil;
      (14)   Cow or ox;
      (15)   Pigeon, homing, or racing;
      (16)   Chicken, turkey, goose, duck;
      (17)   Swine;
      (18)   Chinchilla;
      (19)   Mink;
      (20)   Ferret;
      (21)   Bison;
      (22)   Llama; and
      (23)   All other animals as defined by state law.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. This definition
does not include fish, fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier
trade, and birds protected under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human, warm-blooded mammal that has been
bitten or exposed to any other animal known or reasonably suspected to have
been infected with rabies.
   FIGHT.  A conflict between two or more animals that is intentionally
organized for such purpose.
   FOWL.  Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding horning or racing
pigeons, canaries, parrots, or similar types of birds normally kept in cages.
     HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit an animal habitually to
remain, to be lodged or to be fed within one’s home, store, enclosure, yard or
place of business or any premises on which the persona resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any person or agency designated by the state or the city as
a person who is qualified to perform the duties required by the law of this
city and state regarding animals.
   HOBBY KENNEL. Any establishment housing 15 or fewer dogs and having four or
less litters per year.
   HOME CONFINEMENT. Confinement within an escape proof enclosure or exercised
on a leash by the owner.
   IMPOUNDED. If any animal pursuant to this chapter or any state statute has
been received into the custody of any animal shelter, the animal will have been
IMPOUNDED as that word is used in this chapter.
   K-9 PATROL DOG or POLICE DOG. A professionally trained dog used by law
enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
   KEEPER. Any person, other than the owner, who has actual or constructive
possession of an animal for the purpose of managing, controlling, or caring for
the animal. A person shall be construed as a  KEEPER of an animal even if he or
she does not have the owner’s permission.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting, or keeping cats and dogs for the purpose of hire,
training for a fee, or selling.
   LEASH.  A cord, chain, rope, strap, electric collar or other such physical
restraint. 
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, stallions, colts, mares, geldings, sheep, rams, lambs,
bullocks, steers, heifers, cows, calves, bulls, mules, jacks, jennets, burros,
goats, kids, swine and fur bearing animals being raised in captivity.
   MUZZLE.  A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal, designed to
fasten over the mouth of an animal, without interfering with its vision or
respiration or causing injury to the animal, to prevent the animal from biting
any person or other animal.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with the teeth without breaking the skin or
damaging any tissue.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association, or entity established or organized
as a NOT-FOR-PROFIT by the Internal Revenue Service or the state Department of
Revenue. FOR-PROFIT means all other types of businesses, associations or
entities.
   OFF PROPERTY. Beyond the legal boundaries of the real property on which the
owner, agent or keeper resides.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or other animal, or who has it in his or her care,
or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic
animal to remain on or about any premise occupied by him or her.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION.  Any spectacle, display, act, or exhibit or
event other than a circus, in which performing animals are used.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
legal entity.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise which
sells or barters animals.
   PRIVATE KENNEL. Any premises housing four or more adult dogs not for sale.
   PROVOKED. To deliberately arouse, incite, or excite.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any animal that endangers the life or health of persons or
other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other
than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term PUBLIC
NUISANCE shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any animal found running at large;
      (2)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks, or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Any animal that chases or interferes with motor vehicles in a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   Any animal that attacks other animals;
      (5)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles, or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner;
      (6)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including but not limited
to continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (7)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (8)   Any animal in heat that is not confined or restrained so as to
prevent attraction or contact with other animals;
      (9)   Any animal in any section of a public park, playground, schoolyard
or other recreational area that is found running at large;
      (10)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (11)   Any animal that trespasses on private property of persons other
than the owner of the animal; or
      (12)   Any animal determined to be a dangerous animal.
   RABIES VACCINATION.  An injection licensed by the U. S. D. A. and approved
by the Indiana State Board of Health, given to a dog, cat, or other animal by a
licensed veterinarian to prevent the spread of rabies.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead, or confining it
within the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE.  Any place that provides, for a fee, boarding and/
or riding instructions for a horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   RODEO.  A performance featuring bronco riding, steer wrestling, calf roping,
greased pig contests, or bull riding.
   SECTION. A section of this chapter unless some other ordinance or statute is
mentioned.
   SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH.
      (1)   Any bodily injury, which is caused by an animal and is medically
documented, that:
         (a)   Creates a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, or
extreme pain; or
         (c)   Results in a permanent or protracted loss or impairment of a
bodily member or organ.
      (2)   This definition shall not include any nip from an animal.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any dog or other common domestic animal individually trained
to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of individuals with disabilities,
including psychiatric, cognitive, and mental disabilities. The term SERVICE
ANIMAL does not include wild animals (including nonhuman primates born in
captivity), reptiles, rabbits, farm animals (including any breed of horse,
miniature horse, pony, pig, or goat), ferrets, amphibians, and rodents. Animals
whose sole function is to provide emotional support, comfort, therapy,
companionship, therapeutic benefits, or to promote emotional well-being are not
SERVICE ANIMALS.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   STRAY. Any animal not secured by a lead, or not under the control of a
responsible person or control officer, or not confined within the real property
limits of its owner, and for which after a reasonable search or inquiry no
owner can be ascertained.
   UNCONFINED DANGEROUS ANIMAL.   A dangerous animal which is not securely
confined indoors, not under restraint, or not confined in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner, agent or keeper of
the animal.
   UNLICENSED DOG OR CAT. Any dog or cat for which the license for the current
year has not been obtained, or to which the tag for the current year is not
attached.
   UNPROVOKED. Without incitement or stimulation.
   U.S.D.A.  The United States Department of Agriculture.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal or animals that constitute a physical threat to
human beings or other animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small non- poisonous aquatic or amphibious animal and small cage birds,
which are normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK.  Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of non-domesticated animal, which is operated
by a person, partnership, corporation, or governmental agency that is
established for educational purposes and is properly zoned for that use, and
which possesses valid licenses and permits as required under federal or state
law.
(‘89 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 24-2010, passed 7-
26-10)
§ 91.03 GENERAL ANIMAL CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner or his or her agent residing within the corporate limits of the
city shall see that each of his or her animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Lives in a structure, meeting minimum veterinary standards, which will
protect that animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal
to stand, sit, and lie down without restriction, and which is kept in a
sanitary manner;
   (D)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (E)   Is not beaten, ill-treated, overloaded, over-worked, tormented or
otherwise abused or neglected or involved in any dog fight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and humans;
   (F)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian, except for tattooing for identification purposes and grooming;
   (G)   Is not abandoned, neglected, or tortured;
   (H)   Does not become a public nuisance;
   (I)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of three months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon such
frequency as may be specified by state law, and the animal shall be licensed as
required by this chapter and state law;
   (K)   Is properly restrained and not at large;
   (L)   During mating season, is kept in a secure enclosure in such a manner
that it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same species,
except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 SALE OF ANIMALS AS NOVELTIES OR USE AS PRIZE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Sale of animals as novelties or use as prize prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall display, sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away
any animal, reptile, or bird as a novelty or as an advertising device.
      (2)   No rabbit, chick, gosling, duckling, turkey or other fowl may be
dyed or otherwise colored artificially; nor shall any dyed or artificially
colored rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings, turkeys, or other fowl be sold,
offered for sale, displayed, used as barter, or given away.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale
or display of natural chicks, ducklings, goslings, turkeys, or other domestic
fowl in proper brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the
business of selling them to be raised for commercial purposes. Nor shall this
section prohibit a pet shop holding a valid permit under this chapter or a
legitimate humane society or animal shelter, from humanely caring for, adopting
out, or selling animals as pets.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   No person operating a motor vehicle, who knowingly hits, runs over, kills or
causes injury to a dog or cat, or domestic animal by which creating a public
hazard to shall immediately notify the Police Department. The notice shall
include the motorist’s name, address, phone number, type of animal hit and the
location of the animal.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to that animal, or when the weather
would constitute a health hazard to the animal confined in the motor vehicle;
nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck bed or open
section of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage which is
securely fastened to the vehicle.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.07 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, dispose, or place any poisonous substance on
any public or private property within the corporate limits of the city, if a
domestic animal is reasonably likely to consume such substance.
   (B)   A person shall not be liable under division (A) of this section for
leaving common rat or mouse poisons or insecticides, in any form, on his or her
property if the person exercises reasonable care in restricting a domestic
animal’s access to the poison so that only the targeted rodents or insects are
exposed to the poisons.
   (C)   No person shall intentionally poison or attempt to poison a dog or cat
for nuisance issues or control purposes.
(‘89 Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.08 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall trap animals or fowl within the city limits, unless the trap
(s) are approved by an animal care facility and used for the control of
nuisance animals. This prohibition shall not apply to any trap specifically
designed to kill rats, mice, gophers or moles unless the property owner is
unaware of their placement.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.09 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep more than a total of six domestic animals over
the age of six months per household in any residential area zone.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to property that is at least one-
third of an acre of land (14,250 square feet); however, any person owning more
than three of such animals must comply with division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Persons desiring to have more than three animals who meet the
regulations set forth in division (B) of this section must have a minimum of
1,000 additional square feet for each additional animal.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.10 ACREAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PROHIBITION OF
SWINE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to keep any of the following domestic
animals or fowl in the city must have a minimum of five contiguous acres of
land in the city upon which the animals would be kept and which acreage must be
enclosed by a fence to confine such animals including but not limited to:
         (a)   Cow, ox, cattle, calves, or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkey, ass, burro, or mule;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goat, except pygmy goat (see division (E) of this section);
         (e)   Chickens, roosters, geese, turkeys, ducks, or other fowl except
racing or homing pigeons;
         (f)   Bees;
         (g)   Horses;
         (h)   Bison, llamas; or
         (i)   Swine, except potbelly pig (see division (E) of this section).
      (2)   The maximum number of these animals which may be maintained on the
property shall be determined in light of current animal husbandry and
veterinary standards.
   (B)   (1)   In no event shall the shelter and feeding station for any of the
animals or fowl designated in division (A) above be closer than 50 feet from
the adjoining property line.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
the keeping of bees in a hive, stand, or box located or kept within a
zoological park, school, or university building for the purpose of study or
observation, as long as the public safety is ensured.
      (3)   Bees must be kept in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   If bee colonies are kept within 50 feet of any exterior boundary
of the property on which the hive, stand, or box is located, a barrier shall be
erected that will prevent bees from flying through it.
         (b)   Fresh, clean watering facilities for bees shall be provided on
the premises.
         (c)   The bees and equipment shall be kept in accordance with the
provisions of state statutes.
   (C)    Any person desiring to raise rabbits or pets or racing or homing
pigeons within the city must keep those animals and birds in safe and sanitary
conditions so that a public nuisance as defined herein is not created.
   (D)   No person may keep within the city, as presently or hereinafter
established, any swine, pigpens, or hog sties. Possession of these items
constitutes a public nuisance.
   (E)   Pot bellied pigs and pygmy goats shall be allowed only on a lot with a
minimum of two acres of land for each individual animal, and all other sections
of this chapter shall be adhered to.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.11 OWNERS OR AGENTS RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING ANIMAL WASTES AND DEAD
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any owner or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog or cat outside of
the owner’s real property limits must immediately remove any excrement
deposited by the animal on any public or private property, except in the case
of a guide dog for a blind person or service dog for a deaf or physically
disabled person.
   (B)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours after its death. The real property owner is responsible
for removal of any strange animal carcass on his or her real property.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.12 LEASH REGULATIONS.
   No person being the owner or having custody and control of any dog or cat
shall permit or allow the dog or cat to run or to be at large in the streets,
or on the walks or public grounds of the city, unless the dog or cat shall wear
a collar or a harness and be effectively restrained by a chain or leash not
more than ten feet in length.
(‘89 Code, §111.12) (Am. Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.13 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he or she shall
immediately notify the city Police Department and provide a description of the
animal and identification, if possible, of the owner. When an animal is
determined to have bitten a person, the animal shall be confined in quarantine
for a period of not less than ten days.
   (B)   If the animal’s owner which has bitten a person presents proof of
current rabies inoculations, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner,
under quarantine, unless in the judgment of the humane officer, police officer
or code enforcement agent and based upon considerations of public safety, the
humane officer determines it should be removed to an animal shelter or
veterinary hospital for the period of observation.
   (C)   In addition to other legal obligations prescribed by law, the owner
shall pay for all costs incurred in the quarantine and/or impoundment of the
animal before the animal will be released. If the owner is unable or unwilling
to pay for the costs, the animal will be humanely euthanized and the owner
shall remain liable for any costs incurred in the quarantine and/or
impoundment.
   (D)   If the owner of the quarantined animal cannot be determined, or if the
owner does not furnish proof of current rabies inoculation, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the Porter County Animal Shelter for a period
of observation of not fewer than ten days.
   (E)   Animal control officers, police officers or code enforcement agents
shall be empowered to enter onto private property for the purpose of impounding
animals which are known to have bitten a person and shall obtain legal process
to do so if necessary.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, the city and any of its agents shall comply
with the standards set forth in I.C. 15-2.1-6-1 through I.C. 15-2.1-6-13
entitled “Rabies.”
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.14 MANDATORY VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No animal owner or his or her agent shall keep or harbor a dog or cat
over the age of three months unless a licensed veterinarian with anti-rabies
vaccine has vaccinated it annually.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain proof of an animal’s vaccination so that it
can be presented to the city or its agents upon request.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner of the unvaccinated dog and/or cat to being issued an ordinance
violation citation, subjecting the owner to a fine as set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.15 INTERFERENCE WITH HUMANE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with or impede a humane or animal control officer,
police officer, code enforcement agent or any other authorized agent in the
performance of his or her duties as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.16 EXCLUSION OF SERVICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person owning, operating, or maintaining any public place of business to
which the general public is invited for any business purpose shall exclude
therefrom any service animal that has been trained to assist individuals with
disabilities. However, such animal must be in the company of the disabled
individual for whom it was trained to assist or in the company of a licensed
obedience service trainer.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 24-2010, passed 7-26-10)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.17 DANGEROUS AND POISONOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall harbor or possess within the city any poisonous animal,
reptile, amphibian, fish, or insect, or any animal that poses a threat to the
public health and safety. That animal may be impounded by the animal control
agency and disposed of in a manner determined to be in the best interest of the
animal.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.18 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   The Porter County Animal Shelter as the contracted animal control agency of
the City of Valparaiso may seize, impound or confine any of the following
animals:
   (A)   A stray animal brought to the shelter by shelter personnel or any
resident of Valparaiso;
   (B)   Injured animals brought to the shelter for which no owner can
immediately be found;
   (C)   Biting or dangerous animals or those suspected of being rabid, as
established by other sections of this chapter;
   (D)   An animal whose owner wishes to relinquish that ownership;
   (E)   Any animal seized by the warden, a law enforcement official; or
   (F)   Dogs without current license tags; code enforcement agent to prevent
present or future inhumane treatment;
   (G)   Any animal running at large;
   (H)   Any animal constituting a public nuisance;
   (I)   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured, or otherwise in need of
care;
   (J)   Any unattended animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused
or neglected;
   (K)   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested, or evicted from his
or her regular place of residence.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 91.19 PROTECTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall possess, offer for sale, attempt to buy or own within
the city any of the following animals of either thoroughbred or hybrid stock or
pedigree;
      (1)   All wild cats of the family felidae;
      (2)   Polar bear;
      (3)   Red wolf;
      (4)   Vicuna;
      (5)   Alligator;
      (6)   Caiman or crocodile of the order of crocodillia;
      (7)   Gray or timber wolf;
      (8)   Sea otter;
      (9)   Pacific ridley turtle;
      (10)   Atlantic green turtle;
      (11)   Mexican ridley turtle.
   (B)   No person shall buy, sell, or offer for sale or own a native or
foreign species of subspecies of mammal, bird, amphibian, or reptile, or the
dead body or parts thereof, which appears on the endangered species list
designated by the United States Secretary of Interior and published in the Code
of Federal Regulations pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1969 (Public
Law 135, 91st Congress), as amended.
   (C)   No person shall import or cause to be imported into this city any part
of the plumage, skin, or dead body of any species of hawk, owl, or eagle. This
division shall not construed to forbid or restrict the importation or use of
the plumage, skin, body or any part thereof legally collected for use by
American Indians for ceremonial purposes or in the preservation of their tribal
customs and heritage.
    (D)   This section shall not be construed to prevent the importation,
possession, purchase, or sale of any species to any person or organization
licensed to present a circus or carnival pursuant to this code.
   (E)   A humane officer, police officer or code enforcement agent may seize
and impound any animal being offered for sale or owned in violation of this
section.
   (F)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner of the protected animal to being issued an ordinance violation
citation, subjecting the owner to a fine as set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.20 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or
under his or her control within the city, any poisonous reptile or any other
dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous
domesticated animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious or
dangerous propensities.
   (B)   No person shall keep, maintain or have in his or her possession or
under his or her control, within the city, any of the following animals of
either thoroughbred or hybrid stock or pedigree:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes such as chimpanzee, gibbons, orangutans and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Bears;
      (5)   Bison;
      (6)   Cheetahs;
      (7)   Crocodilians;
      (8)   Constrictor snakes, including but not limited to boa, python and
anaconda;
      (9)   Coyotes;
      (10)   Deer such as white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (11)   Elephants;
      (12)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami;
      (14)   Hyenas;
      (15)   Jaguars;
      (16)   Leopards;
      (17)   Lions;
      (18)   Lynxes;
      (19)   Monkeys, old world, new world;
      (20)   Ostriches;
      (21)   Piranha fish;
      (22)   Pumas such as cougars, mountain lions; and panthers;
      (23)   Rhinoceroses;
      (24)   Sharks;
      (25)   Snow leopards;
      (26)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (27)   Tigers;
      (28)   Wolves;
      (29)   Monitor lizard; or
      (30)   Wild animals.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to institutions of
higher learning, zoological parks, circuses, or persons harboring animals
specifically for the purpose of rehabilitation and release into their natural
habitat pursuant to a valid wildlife permit issued by the state or an agency of
the United States if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of city ordinances.
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate offensive odors.
      (3)   Animals are confined in such a manner so as to prevent their escape
and protect the public from coming in direct contact with them.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner or keeper of the animal to being issued an ordinance violation
citation, subjecting the owner to a fine as set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.21 SEIZURE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, harbor, own, or permit to be kept on his or her
premises any wild animal. Wild animals shall include but are not limited to
raccoons, skunks, foxes, squirrels, chipmunks, porcupines, possums, wolves, and
woodchucks.
   (B)   Zoological parks, animal care facilities, circuses or carnivals
properly licensed pursuant to this chapter, and persons possessing a valid
wildlife permit from the state Department of Conservation are exempt from this
section.
   (C)   Any person who owns, possesses, or harbors any wild animal in
violation of this section may have the animal seized and impounded.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the owner or keeper of the animal to being issued an ordinance violation
citation, subjecting the owner to a fine as set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.22 SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH.
   If an animal kills or causes serious injury, the animal shall be deemed a
dangerous animal, pursuant to §
91.02, and the animal shall be humanely impounded. The owner shall be
responsible for the costs of caring for the animal during the period of
impoundment, including but not limited to costs of boarding and veterinary
treatment, if necessary.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.23 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, a health
officer, police officer, code enforcement agent, or animal control officer is
authorized at all reasonable times to inspect the same for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any state law, provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)    If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry, explaining the reasons thereof.
   (B)   In the event the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the
keeping or maintaining of an animal is so hazardous, unsafe, dangerous, or
constitutes a public nuisance as to require immediate inspection to safeguard
the animal or the public health or safety, the officer shall first present
proper credentials and request entry, explaining the reasons thereof. If entry
is refused or cannot be obtained the officer shall have recourse to secure
lawful entry and inspection of the property.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 CHICKENS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
91.10 which remain in full force and effect, chickens shall be allowed to be
kept in the city on parcels of land consisting of less than five acres in
strict accordance with all of the following requirements:
   (A)   A chicken is a gallus gallus domesticus, a domestic bird typically
kept on a farm. This definition does not include other fowl, such as, but not
limited to, peacocks, turkeys or waterfowl.
   (B)   No roosters (male chickens) shall be kept under the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   There shall be no more than four chickens on any parcels of land less
than five acres in size.
   (D)   Chickens must be kept completely and securely enclosed and under the
control of the owner and on the owner's property at all times.
   (E)   A chicken coop, an enclosed structure for harboring chickens that
provides shelter from the elements, shall be provided. The chicken coop must
provide adequate sun, shade and ventilation and must be impermeable to rodents,
wild birds, and predators, including cats and dogs and must provide at least
ten square feet or space per chicken kept therein. No chicken coop shall exceed
75 total square feet in size. No chicken coop shall be more than ten feet in
height. The chicken coop shall be situated a minimum of ten feet from all
property lines. For corner lots, the chicken coop shall be situated as near as
possible to the middle of the lot. The city's Building Commissioner shall
approve the location of chicken coops on all corner lots.
   (F)   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all
times.
   (G)   All feed for said chickens shall be stored in containers so as to
protect against intrusion by rodents and vermin.
   (H)   The chicken coop shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and in
compliance with all applicable health regulations of the State of Indiana,
Porter County, and the city.
   (I)   Chickens and chicken coops shall be confined to the rear yard of the
property.
   (J)   Any chickens kept in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall be for non- commercial, personal use only and may not be slaughtered on
the property.
   (K)   Any violations of this section shall be subject to applicable
penalties set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 6-27-16)
§ 91.25 HONEY BEES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
91.10 which remain in full force and effect, honey bees (as defined herein)
shall be allowed to be kept in the city on parcels of land consisting of less
than five contiguous acres in strict accordance with all of the following
requirements:
   (B)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APIARY. The assembly of one or more hives or colonies of honey bees at a
single location.
      BEEKEEPER. An individual who keeps honey bees in hive(s) which meet state
approved requirements.
      BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT.  Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such
as hive bodies, supers, frames top and bottom boards and extractors.
      CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Indiana.
      COLONY. The entire honey bee family or social unit living together
including the queen, workers and drones.
      FLYWAY BARRIERS. Fencing, dense hedging or a combination of the two which
provide a shield or protective barrier from the direction in which honey bees
fly when approaching or leaving a hive.
      HIVE. A frame or structure used or employed as a domicile for honey beers
which meet state requirements.
      HONEY BEE. The common domestic honey bee, limited to Apis mellifera
species, specifically excluding the African honey bee, Apis mollifier
scutellata or Africanized honey bee, or any hybrid thereof.
      LOT. A parcel of real estate or tract of land designated by its owner or
developer to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single ownership
or control and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record; or
         (b)   A combination of lots of record.
   (C)   Restrictions. Honey bees shall be allowed to be kept in the city on
lots consisting of less than five contiguous acres in strict accordance with
all of the following requirements.
      (1)   Hives shall be permitted to be either the Langstroth hive or Warre'
(Peoples') hive and shall not exceed 17 cubic feet in volume. No other hives
shall be permitted.
      (2)   The number of hives on any lot in the city shall be limited to two
hives. A temporary hive (a/k/a Nuc hive) may be used temporarily to prevent
swarming. The temporary hive shall be immediately removed from use when the
hive(s) are re-established.
      (3)   In no event shall a hive be located closer than ten feet from a
public sidewalk, street or pathway. The distance shall be measured from the
center of the closest hive to the edge of the public sidewalk, street or
pathway.
      (4)   Hives shall not be located closer than ten feet from the property
line as measured from the center of the hive.
      (5)   A flyway barrier must be installed for all hives that are located
within ten feet of the property line, public sidewalk, street or pathway. The
flyway barrier shall be installed no further than four feet in front of the
hive entrance. The flyway barrier must be wide enough to extend two feet on
each side of the hive. The flyway barrier must meet all applicable fencing
requirements (location and materials) set forth in the city's Unified
Development Ordinance.
      (6)   All bee hives must be located in rear yards.
      (7)   All bee hives shall have a source of water available on the lot on
which the hive is located. The water source shall be located near the hive
entrance/exit. The water source shall be at least the size of an average bird
bath.
   (D)   Any violations of this section shall be subject to the applicable
penalties set forth in §
91.99. In addition, without waiving any of the foregoing penalties, the city
shall be permitted to take all reasonable actions including, but not limited
to, removal or destruction of any apiary, hive or colony which poses a threat
to the public health, safety or welfare, creates a public nuisance or which has
been abandoned.
   (E)   Any individual that recklessly disturbs or molests an apiary, hive,
colony, or other honey bee habitat, without permission of the owner, shall be
subject to all criminal penalties permitted by law.
(Ord. 27-2016, passed 12-12-16)
§ 91.26 SALE OF DOGS OR CATS BY RETAIL PET STORES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No retail pet store shall sell or offer for sale a dog or cat.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not be construed to prohibit a retail pet store
from providing space to either an animal control agency or shelter or an animal
rescue organization, as defined, for the purpose of showcasing adoptable
animals to the public; provided that such retail pet store shall have no
ownership interest in any of the animals offered for adoption, nor shall the
retail pet store receive any fee for providing such space.
   (C)   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section.
      ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION. A not-for-profit organization having tax-
exempt status under 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, whose
mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue and
placement of animals into permanent homes. The term animal rescue organization
does not include any person that: (1) breeds animals for profit; (2) is located
on the same premises as a person that breeds animals for profit; (3) has any
personnel in common with a person that breeds animals for profit; (4) obtains,
in exchange for payment or compensation, dogs or cats from a person that breeds
animals for profit; or (5) facilitates the sale of dogs or cats that were
obtained, in exchange for payment or compensation, from a person that breeds
animals for profit.
      CAT. Any member of the species Felis catus.
      DOG. Any member of the species Canis familiaris.
      RETAIL PET STORE. A commercial establishment (including a kennel) that
sells or offers for sale animals on its premises at retail.
      SELL OR OFFER FOR SALE. To sell, display for sale, exchange for
consideration, adopt out, barter, auction, trade, lease, or otherwise transfer
an animal.
   (D)   A retail pet store that sells or offers for sale a dog or cat in
violation of division (A) of this section shall be subject to a fine of $500
per violation. Each sale or offer for sale of an individual dog or cat in
violation of division (A) shall constitute a separate violation. A retail pet
store that makes provides space in violation in division (B) of this section
shall be subject to a fine of $500 per violation. Each provision of space to an
individual dog or cat in violation of division (B) shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (E)   Any existing retail pet store in operation prior to the adoption of
this ordinance shall be exempt; however, should the exempt retail pet store
cease operations for 180 consecutive days, it shall no longer be considered
exempt. An exception shall be made for an exempt retail pet store that
temporarily ceases operations based on circumstances reasonably characterized
as a force majeure event. To avail itself of this exception, the exempt retail
pet store must provide notice to the Building Commissioner, in writing, no
later than 30 days after the commencement of the temporary closing. Such notice
shall include the date the temporary closing commenced, the reason(s) for the
temporary closing, and (if known) the expected date for resumption of business
activities. No exempt pet store shall be able to relocate or expand the size of
its existing operations and retain its exemption.
(Ord. 9-2023, passed 2-27-23)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Warning notices for pet registration and permits.
      (1)   Persons who fail to have their dogs or cats vaccinated pursuant to
§
91.14 may be served with a warning notice requesting immediate compliance. A
police officer, code enforcement agent or animal control agency may serve this
notice. Only one warning notice may be given per year to an individual who has
failed to have a dog or cat vaccinated or properly registered. All other
violations of this chapter are subject to the citations and fines stated
herein.
      (2)   The warning notice shall contain the name and address of the
violator, the section violated, nature of the violation, date, time and
location of the violation, the name of the officer issuing the warning notice,
and the telephone number of the officer to contact for information.
   (B)   Citations and/fines payable through the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
Any person served with a warning notice for failure to have a dog or cat
vaccinated or registered and who fails to comply within ten days and any person
who violates any other provision of this chapter, shall be issued a citation.
Citations shall contain the name and address of the violator, the ordinance
section violated, the date, time and nature of the violation, location of the
violation, and the name of the person issuing the citation.
   (C)   Fines. 
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the sections of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of $50 per violation, which shall be payable through the
Ordinance Violations Bureau; with the exception of vicious animals, animal
attacks and biting animals.
      (2)    Repeat offenders shall be subject a successive doubling of fines.
      (3)   The owner of a biting animal shall be subject to a fine of $100 per
violation and be required to furnish evidence of a veterinary examination for
that animal demonstrating proper vaccination; and confinement to the
satisfaction of the Police Department, code enforce agent or animal control
officer.
      (4)   The owner of a vicious animal causing serious injury or death shall
be subject to a fine of $1,500 per violation; and the impoundment of the animal
until such time an animal control officer is satisfied with the control of
animal or its humane euthanization.
      (5)    The Ordinance Violation Bureau shall be responsible for all monies
received, fees collected, and all necessary records pertaining animal
registration.
(Ord. 04-2005, passed 2-28-05)
CHAPTER 92: CITY CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   City cemeteries dedicated to public use
   
92.02   Duties of Cemetery Superintendent
   
92.03   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
92.04   Sales and conveyances
   
92.05   Price of lots; interment charges
   
92.06   Division of lots
   
92.07   Grave dimensions
   
92.08   Cemetery records
   
92.09   Burial permits
   
92.10   Superintendent to supervise burials
   
92.11   Interment prohibited where delinquencies exist
   
92.12   Interments restricted
   
92.13   Disinterment restrictions and charges
   
92.14   Interments and disinterments
   
92.15   Outer burial container and casket required
   
92.16   Monuments, headstones, grave markers and foundations
   
92.17   Corner posts
   
92.18   Flowers and enclosures
   
92.19   Removal of obstacles and obstructions
   
92.20   Grading of lots
   
92.21   Improvements by private parties
   
92.22   Access to grounds
   
92.23   Donation of money to Cemetery Fund
   
92.24   Appointment and removal of Superintendent
   
92.25   Maintenance
   
92.26   Cemetery rule exceptions and amendments
Cross-reference:
   Funeral Protests, see
Chapter 100
§ 92.01 CITY CEMETERIES DEDICATED TO PUBLIC USE.
   The city cemeteries, as platted and recorded, are dedicated to public use.
(‘89 code, § 114.01) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.02 DUTIES OF CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Cemetery Superintendent to care for, improve and
beautify the grounds, to open graves and to perform any other duties as may
from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board of Works.
(‘89 Code, § 114.02) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.03 DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to receive all moneys collected
for lots and graves in the cemeteries, and the money received shall be credited
to the Cemetery Fund and shall be used for no other purpose than the care and
maintenance of the cemetery.
(‘89 Code, § 114.03) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.04 SALES AND CONVEYANCES.
   All sales and conveyances of lots and graves shall be under the seal of the
city, and shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer and the Mayor.
   (A)   Repurchase. The city will not repurchase burial rights. The city
cannot assume the role of broker to the extent of advertising, finding
potential buyers, or negotiating terms of sale. The city will provide the
transfer deed to consummate the sale for which there is a fee. No sale is
complete/valid unless it is properly registered with the city.
   (B)   Right to sell. Patrons should be aware that Indiana law prevents
transfer of burial rights in some cases.
   (C)   Address change. It is the duty of each lot owner to notify the city of
any change in mailing address. Notice sent to a lot owner at the last address
on file in our office shall constitute sufficient and proper legal
notification.
(‘89 Code, § 114.04) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.05 PRICE OF LOTS; INTERMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   The price of lots purchased in Memorial Park Cemetery shall be $450
for each burial space with the exception of Block M, including Lots 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76,
77, 88, 89 and 90, which will be $250 for each grave space allowing for two
cremation burials per grave space.
(‘89 Code, § 114.05)
   (B)   Interment rates are established and approved by the Board of Works and
Public Safety. Payments of charges must be made to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to
the issuance of a permit.
(‘89 Code, § 114.15) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.06 DIVISION OF LOTS.
   (A)   Lots in Blocks A, C, D, E, F, G, H, K, L and M of Memorial Park
Cemetery may be divided and sold as single graves, excluding Block M
exceptions.
(‘89 Code, § 114.06)
   (B)   Pauper lots. Lots 62 through 113 inclusive in Block A, and Lots 1
through 37 in Block B, as designated on the recorded plat of Memorial Park, are
set aside for the purpose of pauper burials.
(‘89 Code, § 114.07)
   (C)   Lots dedicated to patriotic organizations.
      (1)   The following numbered lots in Memorial Park Cemetery are dedicated
to the use of the patriotic organizations named:
         (a)   Lots 109 and 111 in Block E are for the Grand Army of the
Republic.
         (b)   Lots 9 and 11 in Block H are for the Sons of Union Veterans.
         (c)   Lot 105 in Block F and Lot 110 in Block H are for the American
Legion.
         (d)   Lot 10 in Block H and Lot 23 in Block K are for the Spanish War
Veterans.
         (e)   Lots 1 and 22 in Block K are for the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
         (f)   Lots 106 and 127 in Block F are for the Disabled American
Veterans.
      (2)   The lots herein dedicated shall be supervised and maintained by the
organizations named as permanent and lasting memorials.
(‘89 Code, § 114.08) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.07 GRAVE DIMENSIONS.
   The dimensions of all graves at Memorial Park Cemetery shall be 4 feet by 12
feet, excluding the Block M exceptions, which will be four feet by six feet,
allowing for two cremation burials per grave space.
(‘89 Code, § 114.09) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.08 CEMETERY RECORDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep permanent records of all lots sold or
transferred and of all interments and disinterments.
(‘89 Code, § 114.10) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.09 BURIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No interment shall be allowed except upon presentation to the Cemetery
Superintendent or designee of a written permit issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a permit the following data is required: Name
of deceased, sex, race, cause of death, name of parents or kindred, owner of
lot, lot number, section, division and date of burial.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed and authorized to provide and purchase
all necessary records and forms in connection herewith. An original Indiana
Burial Permit must accompany all bodies. No interment will take place without
this permit.
(‘89 Code, §114.11) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.10 SUPERINTENDENT TO SUPERVISE BURIALS.
   All interments, disinterments, improvements of grounds or lots shall be
performed by the Superintendent or under his or her direction.
(‘89 Code, § 114.12) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.11 INTERMENT PROHIBITED WHERE DELINQUENCIES EXIST.
   No interment shall be allowed in any lot against which there are any charges
due and unpaid.
(‘89 Code, § 114.13) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.12 INTERMENTS RESTRICTED.
   Only the person in whose name the deed is titled, or the person having
control of the titled person’s estate may determine who may be interred in
graves. Written verification such as power of attorney may be required at the
discretion of the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (A)   Space for burial purposes only. All certificates of burial rights,
when executed, shall be construed as granting the original purchaser the right
to use the space for the interment of such purchaser and such other persons
designated by the purchaser and such other persons designated by the purchaser
or in accordance with the Indiana Cemetery Act.
   (B)   Remains per space. The burial of one-casketed remains shall be
permitted in a single burial space. Burials will not be permitted between
spaces or in areas not specifically designated as burial spaces. With payment
of an additional full burial fee two remains will be permitted in one burial
space as deemed reasonable and legal by the city.
   (C)   Purpose of burial space. All burial space shall be used only for the
interment of human remains.
(‘89 Code, § 114.14) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 9-
2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.13 DISINTERMENT RESTRICTIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   The city reserves the right to require the following signatures of
consent prior to granting permission for any disinterment or removal:
         (a)   Spouse of deceased;
         (b)   Children of deceased;
         (c)   Parents of deceased;
         (d)   Lot owner of present burial site; or
         (e)   Person who provided written authorization for original burial.
      (2)   If the city is unable to obtain the signed authorizations, no
disinterment or removal shall be made without a judgment of the Circuit or
Superior Courts of Porter County, or upon written order of the Coroner of
Porter County.
   (B)   Care in removal. The city will exercise all reasonable precautions in
making a removal, but will be under no liability for damage to any casket,
outer container or urn incurred in making such removal.
   (C)   Disinterment restrictions and charges. Disinterment rates are subject
to the same charges as interments. Payments of charges must be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (D)   Seasonal restrictions. No disinterments shall be permitted between
November 1 and March 30.
(‘89 Code, § 114.15) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.14 INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS.
   (A)   Notice of interments and disinterments. The city reserves the right to
require a minimum of 48 hours prior notice of any interments, disinterment or
removal.
   (B)   Approval. All interments must be made at the time, in the manner, and
with such charges as set and approved by the Board of Works and Safety.
   (C)   Holidays. Interments and interment services shall be permitted on a
typical workday, Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. and are
permitted after hours, weekends and on holidays with approval. An additional
fee will be charged for after hours, weekends and holidays. Holidays observed
by the city include: Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and New Year's Day.
   (D)   Application for interment. The city reserves the right to refuse to
open any burial space for any purpose except on written application by the
owner(s) or successor(s) in burial rights, on a form provided by the city. When
an interment is to be made on a lot, an authorized individual must come to the
office of the Public Works Department a minimum of 48 hours in advance of the
intended interment and locate the grave on the plat map. The city will not be
responsible for errors in location. In all cases where the party is unknown to
the Clerk-Treasurer or where their responsibility is insufficient, a written
notarized permit from the owner of the lot must be filed before a permit is
issued.
   (E)   Not responsible for identity. The city shall not be liable for the
validity of information on the interment permit nor for the identity of the
person sought to be interred.
   (F)   Errors may be corrected. The city reserves the right to correct any
error that may be made. Errors involving the description, transfer or granting
of any interment space may be corrected by canceling such grant and
substituting and granting other interment space of equal value and similar
location if possible, or as may be selected by the city. The city, at their
sole discretion, may elect to refund the amount of money paid for the burial
rights in question. In the event any error shall involve an interment, the city
reserves the right to remove the remains and transfer them to other space of
equal value and similar location.
   (G)   Delays in interments or other activities caused by strikes, etc. The
city shall not be liable for any delay in the interment of a body, or for any
delay in the fulfillment of any of its contract or legal obligations,
including, but not limited to, maintenance, care, memorial work or construction
which may arise from causes beyond its reasonable control and, from delays
caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikes,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots, or order of any military or civil authority.
   (H)   When city not responsible. The city shall take precaution to protect
owners of burial rights from loss or damage. The city is not responsible for
loss or damage for causes beyond its reasonable control. This includes, but is
not limited to, damage caused by the elements, an act of God, thieves, vandals,
strikers, explosions, accidents and riots.
   (I)   Delays caused by protests. The city shall be in no way liable for any
delay in the interment of any remains where a protest to the interment has been
made, or where the city rules of the cemetery have not been complied with. The
city reserves the right, under such circumstances, to place the remains in a
temporary holding area until the full rights have been determined. The city
shall be under no duty to recognize any protest of interment unless it is
presented in writing.
(‘89 Code, § 114.16) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.15 OUTER BURIAL CONTAINER AND CASKET REQUIRED.
   Every earth interment shall be made in a casket and outer burial container
of concrete or metal, or a combination thereof, of sufficient strength and
durability to constitute a reasonably permanent support for the weight above
said container. All cremains will require an urn of rigid, reasonably permanent
construction and material for burial. Wood vaults are not permitted.
Installation of the burial container shall be made by, or under the supervision
of, employees of the Public Works Department.
(‘89 Code, § 114.18) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 9-
2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.16 MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES, GRAVE MARKERS AND FOUNDATIONS.
   Memorializing of graves is accomplished through temporary floral tributes,
decorations and with markers and monuments. Memorializing is subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   Approval. The lot owners(s) or successor(s) in burial rights shall
have the right to erect a proper memorial subject to the space available on the
lot and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the cemetery. Plans for
all memorials must be submitted in writing to the city.
   (B)   Foundations. The foundations of all monuments, headstones or grave
markers must be of concrete and placed to a depth of 36 inches. The total area
of all foundations are to be six inches greater than the base of any monuments,
headstones, grave markers or permanently attached vases, etc upon which it
rests.
   (C)   Monument, material and size. All monuments, headstones, and grave
markers shall be of granite, stone or metal of an indestructible nature.
Ceramic photo tiles may be attached when adhered in a recessed panel. Steel
alloy flower vases may be attached to a granite base if properly anchored to
discourage theft. Monuments, headstone or grave markers placed or erected shall
not exceed four feet in height above ground level. Block M monuments,
headstones or grave markers are not to exceed ground level.
   (D)   Workmen. Workers employed in placing or erecting memorials or bringing
materials shall operate as independent contractors, but must do so by
permission and with supervision and approval of the Cemetery Superintendent. An
outside contractor must present a certificate of insurance to the city Public
Works Department office prior to the commencement of work. No work shall be
done anywhere in the vicinity of a burial committal service in progress.
   (E)   Erection. Material or equipment used in the construction of vaults or
monuments shall not be brought into the cemetery until the use or placing
thereof is imminent. Construction material shall not be placed on adjoining
lots without special permission of the city. Work must proceed promptly until
the erection of the memorial is completed.
   (F)   Inscription and insignia. The name or inscription on each monument,
vault, marker, or urn must identify the person interred. No advertising or
similar logos may be used on any memorial. Any memorial, inscription or device,
which may be deemed improper, offensive or objectionable by the Board of Works
and Safety, shall be removed. All corrections and/or deletions will be the sole
financial responsibility of the lot owner.
   (G)   Damage. The city is not responsible for damage to monuments and
headstones or other decorations, permitted or not permitted, as a result of
strikes, vandalism, theft, storm or other "acts of God", riots, insurrection,
common enemy, pesticide use, or unavoidable accidents due to normal cemetery
maintenance and interment activities, or due to other sources. Monuments,
headstones and other decorations remain the property of the owner and his or
her family and are placed on lots at the risk of the owner. Damage to lots,
walks, roads, trees, shrubs, granite urns, granite benches, or other property
caused by dealers, contractors, or their agents shall be repaired at the
expense of such dealer, contractor, or their respective agents.
   (H)   Removal. Monuments or markers cannot be removed from the cemetery
except by written order of the lot owner(s) or successor(s) and the city.
Should any monument or memorial be determined to be offensive, improper,
dangerous, injurious, or not meeting prescribed standards of the cemetery, the
Superintendent has the right to remove such monument or memorial, and make
reasonable efforts to notify owner(s) or successor(s) of said removal.
   (I)   Cleaning. Any person or firm engaged to clean a memorial must have
written permission from the Cemetery Superintendent and submit certificate of
insurance prior to commencement of work.
   (J)   Vandalism. Any person doing damage to or otherwise vandalizing any
monument, headstone, gravesite or decoration shall be assessed a fine in an
amount not to exceed $2,500 per occurrence and shall be responsible for the
cost for repairing the damage
(‘89 Code, § 114.19) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.17 CORNER POSTS.
   Corner posts to mark the boundaries of lots shall be of cement, polymer
plastic or concrete, and of uniform dimensions and shall be so placed as not to
extend above the surface of the ground. Corner posts shall be provided and
installed by the city.
(‘89 Code, § 114.20) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.18 FLOWERS AND ENCLOSURES.
   All flowers, containers, decorations and any items placed at a grave are at
the sole risk and responsibility of the lot owner(s) or successor(s). The city
assumes no liability for theft, vandalism or damage caused by workers, visitors
or acts of nature.
   (A)   Restrictions. The Board of Works reserves the right to regulate and
restrict the methods of decorating graves.
   (B)   Prohibited. In-ground plantings, bird feeders, bird baths, glass,
bottles, jugs, digging of any kind, buildings, trellises, enclosures, arbors
and other structures.
   (C)   Permitted.
      (1)   Candles, windmills, toy statues, flags, windsocks, flag and
windsock poles, kites, plastic flowers, live flowers, vases, and grave
blankets. All items must be well maintained, and not infringe on other
visitor's rights to enjoy the cemetery, and not create a safety hazard. If
items are not maintained, infringe on visitors and are a safety hazard they
will be removed and discarded. It is recommended that all decorations and
flowers be placed on the monument or the monument foundation. If it is not
possible to place the decorations and flowers on the monument or monument
foundation then they must be placed against the monument foundation so as to
not create a maintenance problem.
      (2)   With permission of the Cemetery Superintendent, trees may be
donated in memory of a certain individual or organization. The tree, if
accepted, shall be planted in an agreed upon location.
   (D)   Clean-up periods. The Superintendent will remove all decorations left
on graves during spring clean-up and fall clean-up. Exact days will be
published in advance and posted at the cemetery. All temporary grave markers
will also be removed during clean-up and may only be returned to a grave upon
proof of monument order and a paid foundation application.
   (E)   Flowers. Fresh cut and silk flowers may be displayed on graves in
acceptable vases, with a limit of two vases per memorial. Live plants and/or
flowers may be displayed in approved granite, concrete or high impact plastic
pots, urns, or containers.
   (F)   Funeral flowers. Flowers remaining after a burial may be placed on the
grave for up to seven days or until they become unsightly, or cause damage to
the turf.
   (G)   Winter decorations and grave blankets.  
      (1)   Wreaths of evergreen spray must be on easels, no taller than 48
inches, no larger than 24 inches in diameter and may not lie on the turf.
      (2)   Grave blankets and winter decorations may only be placed on the
grave from November 1 to April 1.
(‘89 Code, § 114.21) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord.
9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.19 REMOVAL OF OBSTACLES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The Superintendent may remove any fence, railings, coping, arbor or other
structure, together with vines, or shrubbery, which may in any way interfere
with proper care of the cemetery. The Superintendent shall remove any
inscription or device which may be deemed improper or offensive by the Board of
Works. If decorations become unsightly or weathered, the Cemetery
Superintendent may remove them. All flowers, containers, decorations or other
items placed on a grave area are the sole responsibility of the lot owner or
successors. The city assumes no liability for vandalism or theft.
(‘89 Code, § 114.22) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord.
9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.20 GRADING OF LOTS.
   Work in the cemeteries. All grading, landscape work, improvements of any
kind, care of the burial space, planting, trimming, cutting or removal of trees
or flora of any kind, opening and closing of burial spaces, interments,
disinterment and removals, and the construction of all foundations, vault or
container installation, and vase or flower pole installation shall be done by
the employees and with the equipment of the Department of Public Works, or by
outside contractors directly supervised by the city. While a funeral or
interment is being conducted nearby, all work of every description shall cease.
(‘89 Code, § 114.23) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.21 IMPROVEMENTS BY PRIVATE PARTIES.
   Any labor or service rendered by lot owners or others in care of improvement
of any individual lot or lots shall be under the supervision and direction of
the Cemetery Superintendent.
(‘89 Code, § 114.24) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.22 ACCESS TO GROUNDS.
   Visitors are allowed to enter the cemetery only by the main public entrance
and only during daylight hours. The city reserves the right to refuse
admittance to any person violating these rules or whom it deems objectionable
or whose presence is not in the best interest of the cemetery. Bicycles and
motorcycles are permitted in the cemetery when there are no more than two per
group and only in areas where there are no burial committal services taking
place. Noisy or disruptive activity will not be permitted. Motorcycles and
bicycles are permitted in the cemetery as part of a funeral procession and for
attending a burial ceremony.
   (A)   Firearms. Persons with firearms (other than law enforcement officials)
will have permission to enter the cemetery only when participating in military
funerals or exercises.
   (B)   Alcohol. Alcoholic beverages are not permitted on the cemetery
grounds.
   (C)   Children. An adult who is responsible for their conduct must accompany
children under 12 years of age.
   (D)   Animals. Pets are not permitted on any of the interment sections.
   (E)   Soliciting. Soliciting the sale of any commodity shall not be made
within the confines of the cemetery without express written consent of the
city.
(‘89 Code, § 114.25) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.23 DONATION OF MONEY TO CEMETERY FUND.
   Any person desiring to give or donate money for the general care and upkeep
of the City Cemetery, or for improving and beautifying the ground may do so by
paying the same to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall accredit the amount to the
City Cemetery Fund. Money belonging to the Cemetery Fund shall be used for no
other purpose than the care and maintenance of the City Cemetery.
(‘89 Code, § 114.19) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.24 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to appoint a competent Superintendent who
shall have immediate care and control of the cemetery, and who shall act under
the general management and direction of the Board of Works. The Superintendent
of the Cemetery may at any time be removed by the Mayor.
(‘89 Code, § 114.19) (Am. Ord. passed 7-13-98; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.25 MAINTENANCE.
   Maintenance of cemeteries will be performed by the Cemetery Superintendent
or a designee. The city reserves the right to regulate, restrict and remove any
or all items placed in a city owned cemetery. If an item or items are beyond
typical flowers, broken vases and the like, the Board of Public Works will be
the final governing body to remove the items. All non-typical items will be
kept for a period of 30 days before being discarded.
(Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
§ 92.26 CEMETERY RULE EXCEPTIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   Special cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule may
impose unnecessary hardship. The city reserves the right without notice to make
exceptions, suspensions or modifications in any of these rules provided that no
such exception, suspension or modification shall not be construed as affecting
the general application of such rule. The city reserves the right at any time
to change, modify or add to these rules whenever in their judgment the best
interest of the cemetery and owners of burial rights require it. Such changes
may be made without the individual notification of existing lot owners.
(Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-27-06)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS; PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Public Health and Safety Matters
   
93.01   Liquified petroleum gas
Public Nuisances
   
93.15   Removal of excessively tall grass, weeds and other rank vegetation
   
93.16   Chronic disorderly property
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 94
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS
§ 93.01 LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLIANCES. Includes all gas-burning appliances intended for use with
liquified petroleum gas.
      LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS. Includes any material which is composed
predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them:
propane, propylene, butanes (normal butane or iso-butane) and butylenes.
      LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS EQUIPMENT. Includes all devices, piping and
equipment pertinent to the use of liquified petroleum gas, except gas-burning
appliances.
(‘89 Code, § 78.01)
   (B)   All installations of liquified petroleum gas equipment shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this section, with state statutes, with any
orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, and with generally
recognized standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific
standards are prescribed by this code or by the state statutes, or by any
orders, rules or regulations issues by the authority thereof, conformity with
the Standards of the National Fire Protection Association for the Storage and
Handling of Liquified Petroleum Gasses (NFPA No. 53) and with the Recommended
Food Practice Rules for liquified Petroleum Gas Piping and Appliance
Installations in Buildings, as recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA No. 52) shall be prima facie evidence of safe installation.
(‘89 Code, § 78.02)
   (C)   Each person installing liquified petroleum gas equipment for
industrial or commercial use shall first obtain a permit from the Fire Chief.
No fee shall be charged for the permit. No permit shall be required for
installation of gas burning appliances or for replacing portable cylinders.
(‘89 Code, § 78.03)
   (D)   No liquified petroleum gas bulk plant shall be established within the
city unless the proposed installation has been inspected and approved and a
permit issued by the Fire Chief, and the owner thereof has complied with this
section, state laws and all orders, rules and regulations issued by authority
thereof.
(‘89 Code, § 78.04)
   (E)   Each person installing liquified petroleum gas equipment in the city
shall keep a record of each installation, showing the name and address of the
customer at whose place the liquified petroleum gas equipment has been
installed and the date of the installation. He or she shall disclose the record
to the Fire Chief at any time, upon request, during regular business hours. No
record need be kept of the installation of gas burning appliances or
replacement of portable cylinders.
(‘89 Code, § 78.05)
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall inspect a reasonable number of installations of
liquified petroleum gas equipment.
(‘89 Code, § 78.06)
   (G)   In addition to the foregoing divisions of this section, bulk plants
devoted to filling liquified petroleum gas containers shall comply with the
following requirements, except office buildings and other buildings or
structures on the same property which are not used for filling containers or
other similar operations:
      (1)   No plant storage tank shall be located closer than 50 feet to any
building not physically connected with the plant, or to any line of adjoining
property which may be built upon.
      (2)   Artificial lighting shall be restricted to electricity. In
buildings or portions of buildings containing liquified petroleum gas storage
containers, and in buildings or portions of buildings where cylinders or tank
trucks are filled, all electrical equipment for light and power shall be in
compliance with the requirements of the National Electrical Code for Class 1,
Group D, Hazardous Locations. Heating shall be by steam, hot water, or hot air
with heating units located in a separate building provided for this purpose, or
in a separate room cut off from all other portions of the building by vapor-
tight fire resistant walls and with entrance from the outside.
(‘89 Code, § 78.07)
   (H)   Tank trucks used in the distribution of liquified petroleum gas shall
conform to provisions set out in division (B) above.
(‘89 Code, § 78.08)
   (I)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter and
who, after notice from the Fire Chief, shall fail to correct any incorrect
installation within 20 days after receiving the notice, shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and be subject to a fine. Each day shall be considered a
separate offense.
(‘89 Code, § 78.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.15 REMOVAL OF EXCESSIVELY TALL GRASS, WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   All owners of real property within the city are required to cut and/or
remove any and all excessively tall grass, weeds, and other rank vegetation
growing upon their property when growth exceeds six inches.
      (1)   Excessively tall grass, weeds and other rank vegetation shall mean
any plant or other natural growth exceeding six inches in height. The term
shall also include "detrimental plants" as defined under I.C. 15-16-8-1. Trees,
shrubberies, flowers, ornamental grasses, and agricultural crops are not to be
considered rank vegetation.
   (B)   The City's Building Department shall be responsible for the
administration of this section.
   (C)   A four-day written notice to cut and/or remove all excessively tall
grass, weeds, and other rank vegetation shall be issued by the Building
department. Such notice shall be posted in a prominent place on the property.
   (D)   If a property owner fails to remove such excessively tall grass,
weeds, and other rank vegetation described within the time prescribed in
division (C), the Building department may provide for the removal of such and
the City's Building Department shall make a certified bill of the cost(s)
incurred by the city in such removal including administrative and other related
costs. Such bill shall be mailed to the property owner at the last address of
the owner as indicated in the records of the County Auditor. Such property
owner shall have ten days to pay such amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   A property owner may appeal a notice of violation or a bill issued
under this section by filing a written notice of appeal with the Building
department within ten days of the receipt of the notice of violation or bill.
The appeal shall be heard by the Board of Public Works and Safety within 30
days after the notice of appeal is received.
   (F)   If a property owner fails to pay or appeal such sum specified in
division (D) within the time prescribed, a certified copy of the bill of costs
shall be filed in the office of the Porter County Auditor and the Auditor's
office shall place the amount so claimed on the tax duplicate for the property
affected by such work and the total amount including any accrued interest shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected, and shall be disbursed to the
LIT Fund of the city.
(Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 20, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
§ 93.16 CHRONIC DISORDERLY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISORDERLY PROPERTY. A building, dwelling, establishment, premises, or
place (collectively "property") where prohibited conduct occurs. It includes
the outside area contiguous to and surrounding the property such as a yard,
parking lot or lot under the same ownership. If the property has multiple
dwelling units or residences, or is a hotel or motel, this definition applies
collectively to all dwelling units, rooms or suites of rooms in which
prohibited conduct occurs. If the property is part of a larger apartment
complex, this definition applies collectively to all buildings connected to the
apartment complex in which prohibited conduct occurs. This definition
specifically includes both owner and nonowner occupied properties.
      OWNER. The owner of record of the property, as identified by the records
of the Porter County Auditor's Office.
      PROHIBITED CONDUCT. Activities occurring in violation of the statutes or
ordinances relating to any of the following:
         (a)   Gambling, as defined in I.C. 35-45-5-1;
         (b)   Battery, as defined in I.C. 35-42-2-1;
         (c)   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor, as defined in I.C.
35-46-1-8;
         (d)   Resisting law enforcement, as defined in I.C. 35-44.1-3-1;
         (e)   Disorderly conduct, as defined in I.C. 35-45-1-3;
         (f)   Criminal recklessness, as defined in I.C. 35-42-2-2;
         (g)   Discharge of firearms, as prohibited by §§ 130.05 through
130.06;
         (h)   Harassment as defined in I.C. 35-45-2-2;
         (i)   Unreasonable noise, as prohibited by § 130.02;
         (j)   Failure to keep vacant property secured against entry, in
violation of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. (Unsafe Building Law);
         (k)   Violations of any of the following Indiana statutes governing
the sale, possession, delivery or receipt of alcoholic beverages:
            1.   Sales, delivery or possession in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-1-1;
            2.   Illegal possession by a minor in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-7-7;
            3.   Furnishing alcohol to a minor in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-7-8;
            4.   Inducing a minor to possess alcohol in violation of I.C. 7.1-
5-7-15;
            5.   Sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons
in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-10-15;
            6.   Receipt of alcoholic beverages from a person who does not hold
a permit in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-10-5;
            7.   Public intoxication in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-1-3
            8.   Purchase of alcoholic beverages from a person who does not
hold a permit in violation of I.C. 7.1-5-10-7; or
            9.   Visiting or maintaining a common nuisance or any other
violation of I.C. 35-45-1-5.
         (l)   Violations of any of the following Indiana statutes governing:
            1.   Prostitution in violation of I.C. 35-45-4-2;
            2.   Making an unlawful proposition in violation of I.C. 35-45-4-3;
or
            3.   Promoting prostitution or juvenile prostitution in violation
of I.C. 35-45-4-4.
         (m)   Violations of any of the following Indiana statutes governing:
            1.   Criminal gang activity in violation of I.C. 35-45-9-3;
            2.   Criminal gang intimidation in violation of I.C. 35-45-9-4; or
            3.   Criminal gang recruitment in violation of I.C. 35-45-9-5.
         (n)   Violations of any of the following Indiana statutes governing:
            1.   Dealing in cocaine or a narcotic drug in violation of I.C. 35-
48-4-1;
            2.   Dealing in methamphetamine in violation of I.C. 35-48-4-1.1
and/or manufacturing methamphetamine in violation of I.C. 35-48-4-1.2;
            3.   Dealing in a schedule I, II or III controlled substance or
controlled substance analog in violation of I.C. 35-48-4-2;
            4.   Dealing in a schedule IV controlled substance or controlled
substance analog in violation of I.C. 35-48-4-3;
            5.   Dealing in a schedule V controlled substance or controlled
substance analog in violation of I.C. 35-48-4-4;
            6.   Dealing in marijuana, hash oil, hashish, salvia, a synthetic
drug, as defined by I.C. 35-31.5-2-321 or IC 25-26-13-4.1 as those statutes are
from time to time amended, or a controlled substance analog, as defined in I.C.
35-48-1-9.3 and/or I.C. 35-48-4-10. The distribution of low THC hemp extract in
full compliance with I.C. 24-4-21-1 et seq. is excluded from this division;
            7.   Use or possession of any of the substances described in
divisions (n)1. through(n)6., above, or the sale, use or possession of any
other illicit narcotics or dangerous controlled substances; or
            8.   Dealing in a controlled substance by a practitioner in
violation of I.C. 35-48-4-1.5.
   (B)   Public nuisance.
      (1)   For property with less than six separate residential units,
whenever prohibited conduct occurs in or upon the property on three or more
separate occasions during a 60-day period, the City deems the property to be a
disorderly property and a public nuisance.
      (2)   For property between six and 49 separate residential units,
whenever prohibited conduct occurs in or upon the property on four or more
separate occasions during a 30-day period, the city deems the property to be a
disorderly property and a public nuisance.
      (3)   For property with 50 or more separate residential units, whenever
prohibited conduct occurs in or upon the property on seven or more separate
occasions during a 30-day period, the city deems the property to be a
disorderly property and a public nuisance.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable to offices, commercial retail
establishments, restaurants, and bars. Other provisions of Indiana law and the
City's Municipal Code address public nuisances created at these locations.
   (C)   Notice to abate. Whenever the Valparaiso Police Department receives
two police reports documenting the occurrence of Prohibited Conduct in or upon
a Property within the periods identified in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3),
the city shall notify the owner that the property is in danger of becoming a
disorderly property. The notice shall reference all police reports and request
the owner, or its designee, to meet with the Valparaiso Police Department and
discuss the matter. At such meeting, the owner, or its designee, shall outline
ways it intends to mitigate the prohibited conduct. Issuance of a notice to
abate shall not be a condition to establishing a disorderly property and a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Notice of violation. Upon satisfaction of the conditions contained in
division (B), such property shall be deemed a disorderly property and a public
nuisance. The notice of violation shall reference all relevant police reports
and the amount of the fine as outlined in division (F).
   (E)   Manner of serving notice. The city shall provide notice to the owner
in the manner provided by I.C. 36-7-9-25. The city deems the owner responsible
for any and all prohibited conduct.
   (F)   Penalty, injunctive relief. Whenever a property is deemed a disorderly
property and a public nuisance, the city may file an action in any court of
general jurisdiction against the owner to enjoin the nuisance and to recover
the fine. In the case of a rental property, apartment or multi-unit rental
dwelling, enjoinment of the nuisance may include the suspension of all future
rental activities. The fine shall be $500 for the first violation (the
applicable number of police reports documenting the occurrence of prohibited
conduct within the period identified in division (B)(1) through (B)(3) and each
day with no significant attempt to abate the violation constituting a separate
offense. For the second separate violation (the applicable number of additional
police reports documenting the occurrence of prohibited conduct within the
period identified in division (B)(1) through (B)(3) at the same property within
a 12-month period after the first violation, a fine of $1,000 shall be assessed
to the owner and each day with no significant attempt to abate the violation
constituting a separate offense. For the third and each succeeding separate
violation (the applicable number of additional police reports documenting the
occurrence of prohibited conduct within the period identified in division (B)
(1) at the same property within the same 12-month period after the second
violation, a fine of $7,500 or the maximum allowed under Indiana law shall be
assessed to the owner and each day with no significant attempt to abate the
violation constituting a separate offense. In addition, should the city be
successful in any judicial enforcement action, the city shall be entitled to
reimbursement of its court costs and attorneys' fees from the owner.
   (G)   Cooperation with owner/items excluded from the definition of
"prohibited conduct." An owner of property identified as a disorderly property
is encouraged to communicate and cooperate with the Valparaiso Police
Department and the City's Code Enforcement Department. It is not the intent of
this section to discourage anyone from requesting police assistance -
especially any victim of domestic violence and/or child abuse or neglect. I.C.
35-31.5-2-78 (Crime of domestic violence), I.C. 31-33-1-1 (reporting of
suspected or known incidents of child abuse or neglect), I.C. 35-46-1-4
(neglect of a dependent) and other related statutes are specifically excluded
from division (A). In addition, ambulance calls, welfare checks, routine
traffic stops, and motor vehicle accidents are also specifically excluded from
division (A).
   (H)   Reduction/elimination of fine. Upon request by an owner of a
disorderly property, the Board of Works shall have the authority to reduce or
eliminate any fine upon: i) a showing of a good faith effort to mitigate the
conditions that caused the property to be identified as a disorderly property;
and ii) recommendation from the Valparaiso Police Department.
   (I)   Compilation and delivery of data. Advocacy groups for fair housing,
mental/physical disabilities, and victims of domestic violence have expressed
concerns that this ordinance will adversely impact those populations. It is
expressly not the intent of the city to adversely impact any vulnerable
population. The Valparaiso Police Department will notify the City Attorney
whenever a notice to abate and notice of violation are issued. The City
Attorney will compile this information and make it available to the City
Council and public.
(Ord. 16-2021, passed 7-26-21)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Provisions
   
94.001   Title
   
94.002   Purpose
   
94.003   Applicability
   
94.004   Adoption
   
94.005   Administration
   
94.006   Enforcement authority
   
94.007   Inspections
   
94.008   Right of entry
   
94.009   Violations; orders to correct
   
94.010   Administrative appeals
   
94.011   Remedies
   
94.012   Investigations
   
94.013   Review and final inspection of site plans
   
94.014   Review of building plans and certificate of occupancy
   
94.015   Firefighting Fund established
   
94.016   Equipment Replacement Fund
On-site Fire Protection
   
94.025   On-site fire protection—plans and connections
   
94.026   On-site fire protection—water supply
   
94.027   On-site fire protection—fire hydrants
   
94.028   Obstruction of fire fighting appliances
   
94.029   Portable fire extinguishers
   
94.030   Operations at fires or other emergencies
Inspections
   
94.040   Inspection fees
Fire Lanes
   
94.050   Fire lanes established
   
94.051   Obstruction of fire lanes
   
94.052   City enforcement of schedule 29 fire lanes
   
94.053   Enforcement of provision of schedule 29
   
94.054   Buildings without fire lanes declared nuisance; abatement; suit
   
94.055   Lanes to be kept open and marked
   
94.056   Enforcement
Smoke Detectors
   
94.070   Definitions
   
94.071   Basic requirements
   
94.072   Installation; location
   
94.073   Maintenance
   
94.074   Duty of property owner, manager, or rental agent
   
94.075   False alarms
   
94.076   Enforcement of provisions
Burning Regulations
   
94.090   Definitions
   
94.091   Burning prohibited
   
94.092   Enforcement of provisions
Indoor Tire Storage Permit
   
94.105   Indoor tire storage permit
   
94.106   Enforcement of provisions
Temporary Propane Tank Storage
   
94.120   Temporary propane tank storage permit
   
94.121   Enforcement of provisions
Fireworks and Pyrotechnics
   
94.130   Fireworks and pyrotechnics permits
   
94.131   Enforcement of provisions
Fire Truck Use
   
94.145   Trucks to remain in city limits; exceptions
Fire Prevention Education
   
94.155   School fire prevention
Firefighter Training Services
   
94.165   Fees
ALS Ambulance Service
   
94.170   Definitions
   
94.171   Established
   
94.172   Fee schedule
   
94.173   Responsibility for payment of fee
   
94.174   Legal action for collection of fees
   
94.175   Fees waived
   
94.176   Disposition of fees
   
94.177   Reciprocal agreements
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 98 and §
130.04
   Rental Housing Code fire safety provisions, see §
158.46
FIRE PREVENTION PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplementary or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Fire Prevention Code of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana”, may
be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as the “code”.
§ 94.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose and the intent of this code is to prescribe minimum
requirements and controls to safeguard life, property or public welfare from
the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handing or use of
substances, materials or devices and from conditions hazardous to life,
property or public welfare in the use or occupancy of buildings, structures,
sheds, tents, lots or premises.
   (B)   To prescribe a course of action to be taken to gain compliance with
the state and local codes, ordinances and regulations for fire prevention.
§ 94.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this code and the fire safety rules of the Indiana
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission shall apply to existing
buildings and conditions. Exceptions:
      (1)   Existing conditions which do not constitute a distinct hazard to
life or property.
      (2)   The transportation of any articles or substances under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations prescribed by the armed
forces of the United States.
   (B)   Nothing in this code shall be construed, interpreted or applied to
abrogate, nullify or abolish any law, ordinance or code adopted by the city
governing the construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition,
use, location, occupancy and maintenance of buildings specifically provided
herein. When any provision of this code is found to be in conflict with any
building, zoning, safety, health, or other applicable law, ordnance or code of
the city or rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission
existing on the effective date of this code or hereafter adopted, except as
provided for by IN 675 IAC 12, the provision which establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the safety and welfare of the
public shall prevail.
   (C)   The planning, design and construction of new buildings and structures
to provide egress facilities, fire protection, and built-in fire protection
equipment shall be controlled by the building noes of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission; and any alterations, additions or
changes in buildings required by the provisions of this code which are within
the scope of the said building rules shall be made in accordance herewith.
   (D)   Buildings built under and in full compliance with the building and
fire safety laws and rules of force at the time of construction or alteration
thereof, and that have been properly maintained and used for such use as
originally permitted, shall be exempt from the requirements of the code
pertaining to any of the following matters:
      (1)   Fire protection of structural elements;
      (2)   Exits required, except as provided for existing buildings under
this code; or
      (3)   Isolation of hazardous operations and mixed uses; provided,
however, that the Fire Chief shall require the installation of fire safety
devices or systems (fire extinguishers, fire alarms, fire detection devices, or
similar systems) where they are necessary to provide safety to life. In lieu of
requiring the installation of safety devices or systems or when necessary to
secure safety in addition thereto, the Fire Chief shall prescribe limitations
on the handling and store of materials or substances or upon operations that
are liable to cause fire, contribute to the spread of fire, or endanger life or
property. Any orders issued by the Fire Chief to obtain compliance with this
subsection shall be governed by the provision of I.C. 26-8-17-10.
§ 94.004 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The following fire safety rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission as set out in Article 22 of Title 675 of the India
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by refer into this code, and shall
include later amendments to that Article as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with the effective dates as
fixed therein:
      Article 22 - Fire Prevention Codes; Indiana Fire Code, including
Appendices I-A, I-B, I-C.
   (B)   Copies of all above referenced fire safety rules, codes and standards
shall be kept on file and open for public inspection in the office of the
Valparaiso Bureau of Fire Prevention.
§ 94.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire Department of Valparaiso is
hereby established, which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief
of the Fire Department The Chief of the Fire Department shall designate The
Deputy Chief of the Fire Department as Chief Inspector of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention, who shall hold this office at the pleasure of the Chief of the Fire
Department. The Deputy Chief of the Fire Department may also designate such
number of assistant inspectors as shall from time to time be authorized by the
City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in the office of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention, a record of all fires and of all the facts
concerning the same, including statistics as to the extent of such fires and
the damage caused thereby, and whether such losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All such records shall be public.
   (C)   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually on or
before January 31, and transmitted to the Mayor of Valparaiso; it shall contain
all proceedings under this chapter, with such statistics as the Chief of the
Fire Department may wish to include therein. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall recommend any amendments to the chapter which, in his judgment, shall be
desirable.
§ 94.006 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Chief of the Fire
Department, Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention, or such Officer of the
Department or designee which is an ex officio assistant to the State Fire
Marshal under I.C. 36-8-17-5 to enforce the provisions of this code. The
designated enforcement officer of this code is herein referred to as the Fire
Chief.
   (B)   The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be responsible for the enforcement
of this code and regulations for the safeguarding, to a reasonable degree, of
life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion and from conditions
hazardous to life and property in the use or occupancy of buildings or premises
and their contents.
   (C)   It is the intent of the Fire Department to achieve compliance by
traditional means of inspection, violation notification, granting of reasonable
time to comply and reinspection. A citation may be used after reasonable means
to gain compliance have failed or, with proper justification, at the discretion
of the Fire Chief.
   (D)   The personnel regularly assigned to the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall be commissioned as special police officers through the Board of Safety
and have all rights, duties and authorities for the enforcement of this code,
and state and local laws as they relate to their assignment. Only those members
of the Fire Department specifically designated by the Fire Chief may issue
citations.
   (E)   The Chief of the Valparaiso Police Department upon request of the Fire
Chief shall assign such law enforcement officers as may be necessary to assist
in the enforcement of this chapter.
§ 94.007 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall cause to be inspected all structures and premises
except the interiors of private single-family dwellings, and multi-family
dwellings for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any
conditions liable to case fire, contribute to the spread of fire, interfere
with fire fighting operations, endanger life or any violations of the
provisions or intent of this code affecting fire safety pursuant to I.C. 36-8-
17-8. Said inspections shall be performed annually, or at any other time deemed
reasonable. Inspections may be performed by the Fire Chief, Division Chief of
Inspection, Shift Inspector, or Deputy Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, Division Chief of Inspection, Shift Inspector, or
Deputy Chief are authorized to impose penalties for violations discovered in
the course of an inspection under this section. The owner, operator, or agent
must comply with the recommendations of the inspector made pursuant to this
section. Whenever an inspector from any agency or department observes an
apparent or actual violation of any provision of any law, ordnance or code of
the city not within the inspector’s authority to enforce, the inspector shall
report the findings of the official having jurisdiction (such as Police,
Building Department, Board of Health).
§ 94.008 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
code, or whenever the Fire Chief or authorized representative there exists in
any structure or upon any premises, any condition which makes such structure or
premises unsafe, the Fire Chief or authorized representative shall be permitted
to enter such structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same
or to perform any duty imposed upon the Fire Chief by this code or state
regulations.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or authorized representative may be required by the
owner or occupant to present proper credentials as proof of his authority.
   (C)   If such entry is refused, the Fire Chief may apply to a Court of
competent jurisdiction for an order compelling such inspection, which order
such court shall have authority hereunder to grant pursuant to I.C. 22-14-2-4.
§ 94.009 VIOLATIONS; ORDERS TO CORRECT.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Chief or his designee observes an apparent or actual
violation of a provision of this code or other ordinances under the Fire
Chief’s jurisdiction, the Fire Chief shall prepare a written notice of
violation and order describing the condition deemed unsafe and specifying a
reasonable time for the required repairs or improvements to be made to correct
such violation. The written notice of violation of this code shall be served
upon the owner, a duly authorized agent, land contract holder, or upon the
occupant or other person responsible for the conditions under violation. Such
notice of violation shall be served either by delivering a copy of same to such
person or persons by ordinary mail or the last known post office address,
delivered in person, or by delivering it to and leaving it in the possession of
any person in charge of the premises or in the case such person is not found
upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof, in a conspicuous place at the
entrance door or avenue of access; and such procedure shall be deemed the
equivalent of personal notice.
   (B)   The failure of any Code Enforcement Inspector to inspect or issue a
violation notice in accordance with this section shall not constitute approval
of any violation or noncompliance with this chapter.
   (C)   When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, there is actual and potential
danger to the occupants or those in the proximity of any building, structure or
premises because of unsafe structural conditions, or inadequacy of any means of
egress, the presence of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the presence
of toxic fumes, gasses or materials, the Fire Chief may order immediate
evacuation of said building, structure or premises. All of the occupants so
notified shall immediately leave the building, structure or premises and
persons shall not enter or reenter until authorized to do so by the Fire Chief.
   (D)   Any person who shall refuse to leave, attempt to enter the building,
or who interferes with the evacuation of other occupants or continues any
operation after having been given an evacuation order except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be deemed in violation of this code and I.C. 35-44-3-8.
   (E)   Temporary or emergency orders issued by the Fire Chief, pursuant to
I.C. 35-8-17-9 shall first be approved, either orally or in writing by the
State Fire Marshal.
§ 94.010 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   An owner or occupant who is aggrieved by a violation notice issued
pursuant to §
94.009 of this code, may appeal the violation notice in writing to the Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Prevention within seven calendar days of the issuance of the
violation notice. The Chief of Code Enforcement shall within three working days
following the receipt of the written appeal either affirm, modify or reverse
the order. The written decision shall be sent first class mail to the
appellant.
   (B)   An owner or occupant may appeal the decision of the Chief of Code
Enforcement. Such an appeal shall be made in writing to the Fire Chief no later
than seven calendar days following the receipt of a decision issued pursuant to
division (A) above. The Fire Chief shall within three working days following
the receipt of the written appeal either affirm, modify or reverse the order.
The written decision shall be sent first class mail to the appellant.
   (C)   An order issued pursuant to §
94.009 of this code, and the matter involving a rule of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission may be appealed to the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
§ 94.011 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If the owner, operator, or agent fails to correct a cited violation of
the Indiana Fire Prevention Code or a section in this chapter, the violation
shall be a Class A infraction and subject to an ordinance violation Citation
Notice. The Citation Notice may be issued, in accordance to I.C. 34-28-5, by
the inspection officer for each violation cited. Each day the violation remains
uncorrected shall be a separate violation and subject to a citation with
penalties as listed in §
94.999.
   (B)   If the notice of violation and order is not completed within the time
specified on the violation notice, and no review of such order has been
initiated pursuant to §
94.010, the Fire Chief may request the City Attorney to institute for the city
the appropriate legal proceedings to restrain, correct or abate such violation
or to require removal or termination of the unlawful use of the building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of any order or
direction made pursuant thereto. In addition, any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the civil forfeitures
provided for in §
94.999.
§ 94.012 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Investigation Division shall investigate all fires, environmental
crimes and other Fire Department related incidents to determine origin, cause
and circumstance which involve loss of life, serious injury, or damage to
property or the environment.
   (B)   The personnel regularly assigned to the Investigation Division shall
be commissioned as special police officers through the Board of Safety and have
all rights, duties and authorities for the enforcement of this code, and state
and local laws as they relate to their assignment.
   (C)   The County Prosecuting Attorney and City Attorney, upon request of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention, shall assist the inspectors in the investigation of
any fire which, in their opinion, is of suspicious origin.
§ 94.013 REVIEW AND FINAL INSPECTION OF SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise determined by the Chief of the Fire Department,
the site plans submitted to the City Planning Department in support of an
application for a building permit to construct any building shall be submitted
to the Fire Department for review. When any plans are submitted, the Fire Chief
shall cause a review of them and determine whether any building or structure on
the land to be develop is, or will by virtue of the development, become in
excess of the requirements of §
94.025 for fire hydrants and fire apparatus access roads. If, on review, it is
determined either that the fire protection facilities or access roads are not
required or that they are adequately provided for in the plans, the Fire Chief
or his designee shall endorse his approval thereon. If adequate provision for
such facilities or roads is not made, the Fire Chief of his designee shall
either disapprove the plans and indicate to the City Planning Department in
writing wherein they are deficient or approve the plans subject to conditions.
   (B)   No final inspection under the municipal code as to all or any portion
of the development shall be deemed completed unless and until the installation
of the prescribed facilities and access ways has been completed and the final
approval thereof of the Fire Department is given as provided therein. The final
inspection shall be conducted solely to implement the enforcement of the
provision of this section and shall in no manner be deemed an assurance on the
part of the city that these facilities and access ways are or will continue to
be in good working order.
§ 94.014 REVIEW OF BUILDING PLANS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise determine by the Fire Chief, the plans submitted
to the Building Department in support of an application for a building permit
to construct any building shall also be submitted to the Fire Department for
review.
   (B)   When any plans are submitted under division (A) above, the Fire Chief
shall cause a review of them and determine whether such plans conform to the
rules and regulations of the State of Indiana Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission and the Valparaiso Fire Department Ordnance, listed in this
chapter. The review process shall not be construed as an approval of any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, of other ordinances of the city,
or of rules and regulations of the State of Indiana Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy. A Certificate of Occupancy must be obtained
from the Building Department. This certificate must be signed by both the
Building Department and the Fire Department, after a final inspection of the
building or structure is made. Issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy shall not
be construed as an approval of any violation of the provisions of this code or
of other ordinances of the city or of rules and regulations of the State of
Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
§ 94.015 FIREFIGHTING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Common Council does hereby establish a Firefighting Fund.
   (B)   All existing funds in the Firefighting Training and Firefighting
Equipment Funds will be rolled into the Firefighting Fund.
   (C)   After all costs associated with the performance of the Firefighting
Fund have been satisfied, 85% of the remaining funds collected will be
deposited in the city's General Fund and the remaining 15% of the collected
funds shall remain in the Firefighting Fund.
   (D)   The Chief of the Fire Department and/or his or her designee(s) shall
be named and have the authority for the collection, allocation and expenditure
of all costs associated with the performance of the Firefighting Fund.
   (E)   The Chief of the Fire Department and his or her designee(s) shall be
named and have the authority for the expenditure of funds from the Firefighting
Fund which remain after 85% of the deposits have been returned to the General
Fund.
(Ord. 38-2004, passed 11-22-04)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for false alarms, see
§ 94.075
   Fees for firefighter training services, see
§ 94.165
   Inspection fees, see
§ 94.040
   Penalties, see
§ 94.999
§ 94.016 EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   A need exists to reestablish the Equipment Replacement Fund for the
territory for the purposes outlined in I.C. 36-8-19-8.5 and the rate for the
Equipment Replacement Fund is hereby reestablished uniformly at $0.0333 on each
$100.00 of taxable real and personal property within the territory's taxing
district, subject to review and approval by the Indiana Department of Local
Government Finance (the "DLGF").
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
ON-SITE FIRE PROTECTION
§ 94.025 ON-SITE FIRE PROTECTION—PLANS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All installation of on-site fire protection shall be in accordance to
code in effect at the time of construction. A complete set of plans and
specifications for fire protection systems, including fire alarm systems,
automatic sprinkler systems, standpipe systems and other special types of fire
extinguishing systems and appurtenances thereto shall be submitted to the
Department for review. The installation shall be at the expense of the owner or
developer.
§ 94.026 ON-SITE FIRE PROTECTION—WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   All Class 1 buildings (as defined in 675 IAC 12-6) or portions of
Class 1 buildings hereafter constructed shall be provided with a water supply
cable of providing the required fire flow for fire- fighting purposes for a
minimum period of two hours. The water supply shall be from a source as set
forth in § 903.2 of the IFC (675 IAC 22). In setting the requirements for fire
flow, the Code Enforcement Chief may use the IFC (675 IAC 222) Appendix III-
A as a guide.
§ 94.027 ON-SITE FIRE PROTECTION—FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All private fire hydrants shall be installed and maintained as set
forth in the latest edition of NFPA Standard No. 24. In the determination of
location and spacing of hydrants the IFC (675 IAC 22) Appendix III-B shall be
used as a guide. The proposed location of private fire hydrants to supply the
required fire flow (IFC (675 IAC 22)) shall be approved by the Fire Department.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of this section require the installation of a
fire hydrant whether on public or private property, such hydrant shall meet the
standards established by the City of Valparaiso City Utilities Water
Maintenance Department to insure compatibility.
§ 94.028 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE FIGHTING APPLIANCES.
   No owner, occupant, manager or agent shall place or keep any post, fence,
wall, trees, plants or any obstruction of any kind near any fire hydrant, Fire
Department connection or fire protection control valve that would prevent such
equipment from being immediately discernible or in any other manner to deter or
hinder the Fire Department from gaining immediate access to said equipment.
§ 94.029 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed and maintained in all
occupancies, except one- and two- family dwellings, as set forth in the IFC
(675 IAC 22-2.2-3) latest edition of N F PA Standard 10.
§ 94.030 OPERATIONS AT FIRES OR OTHER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief and his authorized representative, in charge at the
scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of life and/or
property or any part thereof, shall have the power and authority to direct such
operations as may be necessary to extinguish or control any fire, perform any
rescue operation, investigate the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas
leaks or other hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other action
necessary in the reasonable performance of their duty. In the exercise of such
power, the Fire Chief may prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel or thing from
approaching the scene and may remove or cause to be removed or kept away from
the scene any vehicle, vessel or thing which may impede or interfere with the
operations of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Chief or other officer of the Fire Department in charge at the
scene of the emergency shall have the authority to place ropes, guards,
barricades or other obstruction across any street alley, place or private
property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or
interference with the lawful efforts of the Fire Department to manage and
control the situation and to handle fire apparatus.
   (C)   Any person who obstructs the Fire Department in connection with
extinguishing any fire, or other emergency, or disobeys any lawful command of
the Fire Chief or officer of the Fire Department who may be in charge at such a
scene, or any part hereof, or any police officer assisting the Fire Department
shall be in violation hereof and subject to the penalties provided in I.C. 35-
44-3-8.
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing a firefighter, see I.C. § 35-44-8
INSPECTIONS
§ 94.040 INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Fire Inspections shall be performed for all new businesses and current
businesses at an annual rate based on occupancy as follows:
      (1)   A Class (Assembly):
         (a)   $100, 100 or more people;
         (b)   $75, 50-99 people;
         (c)   $40, 49 or fewer people;
      (2)   B Class (Business):
         (a)   $75, 2,500 sq. ft. and larger;
         (b)   $40, 2,499 sq. ft. and less;
      (3)   E Class (Educational):
         (a)   $100, 2,500 sq. ft. and larger;
         (b)   $60, 2,499 sq. ft. and less;
      (4)   F Class (Factory, Industrial):
         (a)   $125, 10,000 sq. ft. and larger;
         (b)   $75, 2,500-9,999 sq. ft.;
         (c)   $40, 2,499 sq. ft. and less;
      (5)   H Class (Hazardous), $125;
      (6)   I Class (Institutional), $100;
      (7)   M Class (Mercantile):
         (a)   $125, 10,000 sq. ft. and larger;
         (b)   $75, 2,500-9,999 sq. ft.;
         (c)   $40, 2,499 sq. ft. and less;
      (8)   R Class (Residential): $60, and an additional $10 for every
structure used for residential occupancy associated with the complex;
      (9)   S Class (Storage), $ 40; and
      (10)   U Class (Utility and Misc.), $20.
   (B)   A fire inspector may reduce the inspection fee by up to 50% if no
serious fire safety violations are found at the time of inspection.
   (C)   The above fees do not reflect any fines or penalties associated with
inspections found to be in violation.
(Am. Ord. 29-2005, passed 6-13-05; Am. Ord. 5-2006, passed 2-13-06)
Cross-reference:
   Firefighting Fund, see
§ 94.015
FIRE LANES
§ 94.050 FIRE LANES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The owners, managers or agents of retail, commercial, industrial or
public buildings, new or existing, having privately owned public parking lots
and drives devoted to public use, shall be responsible to insure that fire
lanes are maintained, at their own expense, and that there are no obstructions
to the ingress and egress of Fire Department or other emergency vehicles and
personnel for protection of persons and property.
   (B)   Fire lanes shall be of hard surface concrete or asphalt and shall be
established in the driving lane closest to the building. A fire lane must be at
least 20 feet in width.
   (C)   Signs designating the fire lanes shall read, “Fire Lane No Parking” or
“No Parking Fire Lane” and shall be 12 inches wide and 18 inches high. Said
signs shall be no higher than seven feet off the ground and positioned at least
every 40 feet along the curb or side of building wherein the lanes are
established. Signs shall be visible upon approach from each direction. “Fire
Lane No Parking” or “No Parking Fire Lane” shall be painted in yellow on the
surface along the fire lane. Lettering shall be no less than 12 inches in
height.
§ 94.051 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE LANES.
   No vehicle or object, whether attended or unattended, other than an
emergency vehicle on an emergency response or vehicle having written permission
from the Fire Chief, shall park in or obstruct by any means a fire lane. Said
vehicle or object shall be deemed an obstruction and in violation and shall be
subject to the same penalties provided for such parking or otherwise
obstructing fire lanes on public streets.
§ 94.052 CITY ENFORCEMENT OF SCHEDULE 29 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The owner, manager or agent of a retail, commercial, industrial or
public building, new or existing, having privately owned public parking lots
and dives devoted to public use, may petition the Board of Safety to have the
fire lanes at their establishment listed on Schedule 29 which is maintained by
Traffic Engineering.
   (B)   The Schedule 29 fire lane shall be of hard surface concrete or asphalt
and shall be established in the driving lane closest to the building. A fire
lane must be at least 20 feet in width and shall be marked with a red line or
red curb along the building side and a red line or red curb indicating the
outside edge of the lane.
   (C)   Signs for a Schedule 29 fire lanes shall read, “Fire Lane No Parking”
or “No Parking Fire Lane” and shall be 12 inches high and 18 inches wide. Said
signs shall be no higher than seven feet off the ground and positioned at least
every 30 feet along the curb or side of building wherein the lanes are
established. Signs shall be visible upon approach from each direction. “Fire
Lane No Parking” or “No Parking, Fire Lane” shall be painted in red on the
surface along the fire lane. Lettering shall be no less than 12 inches in
height.
§ 94.053 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISION OF SCHEDULE 29.
   (A)   The Valparaiso Fire Department, Police Department of Parking Control
Officers shall be charged with the duty of assisting owner/occupants with the
enforcement of the terms of §
94.051 by the issuance of a citation.
   (B)   Any fire fighter or police office, upon discovering any such vehicle
so parked or stopped in violation of §
94.051, may remove such vehicle or cause the same to be removed to any place
authorized pursuant to contract, where such vehicle shall be impounded,
provided said vehicle is causing a hazard or interfering with an emergency
operation.
§ 94.054 BUILDINGS WITHOUT FIRE LANES DECLARED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT; SUIT.
   (A)   It is declared that any building open to the public which does not
have unobstructed access for fire fighting equipment constitutes a fire hazard
and a public nuisance because it endangers the lives of the public.
   (B)   Upon recommendation the Fire Chief, the Board of Safety may require
the abatement of the nuisance by ordering the building closed to the public and
evacuated, which order shall be enforced by the police department.
   (C)   At the request of the Board of Safety, the City Attorney may file suit
in the name of the city for the abatement of the nuisance.
§ 94.055 LANES TO BE KEPT OPEN AND MARKED.
   No building shall constitute a nuisance as defined in §
94.051 if the owner and lessee provide adequately marked fire lanes and keep
them open at all times for fire fighting equipment.
§ 94.056 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Valparaiso Fire Department (including the Fire Chief, Battalion Chiefs,
Division Chief of Inspection, and Duty Fire Chief) and the Department of
Neighborhood Code Enforcement shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the
terms of §§
94.050 through
94.055.
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 94.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SIGNAL. An audible signal indicating the detection of visible or
invisible particles or products of combustion other than heat.
   AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION.  The Valparaiso Fire Department and the
Department of Neighborhood Code of the City of Valparaiso which have
enforcement responsibility for this chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provision for sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   LABELED. Equipment or materials to which has been attached a label, symbol
or other identifying mark of an organization engaged in product evaluation,
that maintains periodic inspection of production of labeled equipment or
materials and by whose labeling the manufacture indicates compliance with
appropriate standards or performance in a specified manner.
   LISTED. Equipment or materials included in a list published by an
organization engaged in product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection
of production of listed equipment or materials and whose listing state either
that the equipment or material meets appropriate standards or has been tested
and found suitable for use in a specified manner.
   NFPA 74. Standard 74 of the National Fire Protection Association, which is
located in Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MC, 02269.
   RENTAL AGENT/LEASING AGENT. Any person, partnership or corporation, who
rents, subleases, lets or otherwise grants for a consideration the right to
occupy premises not owned by the occupant. This term shall not be construed to
mean a real estate agency who is employed for the sole purpose of selling
residential units.
   SLEEPING AREAS. The area or areas of the dwelling unit in which the bedrooms
(or sleeping rooms) separated by other use areas, such as kitchens or living
rooms, (but not bathrooms), shall be considered sleeping areas.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. Shall be defined as a device which senses visible or
invisible particles or products of combustion and conforms to the minimum
standards for type, components, and maintenance prescribed by the National Fire
Protection Association. The detector shall bear a label or other identification
issued by an approved testing agency having a service for inspection of
materials and workmanship at the factory during fabrication and assembly.
§ 94.071 BASIC REQUIREMENTS.
   All dwelling units within the corporate limits of the city shall be equipped
with a minimum of one functional, properly located, labeled and listed, smoke
detector, or its equivalent or better, as described in National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) pamphlet 74.
§ 94.072 INSTALLATION; LOCATION.
   (A)   A minimum of one operating smoke detector, or its equivalent or better
as described in the NFPA 74, shall be installed in each dwelling unit within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   All smoke detectors must be installed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   (C)   The smoke detector shall be installed to protect the sleeping areas
and stall be located outside of the bedrooms but in the immediate vicinity of
the sleeping areas, within 15 feet of the rooms used for sleeping areas.
   (D)   The smoke detector shall be installed on or near the ceiling, not less
than six inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than six inches nor more
than 12 inches from the ceiling, and its installation shall be subject to
approval by the “authority having jurisdiction.” No detector shall be recessed
into the ceiling.
   (E)   All smoke detectors shall be accessible for servicing and testing.
   (F)   If a smoke detector is A.C. powered, it must be directly attached to a
junction box not controlled by any switch other than the main power supply. The
installation of A.C. powered detectors shall conform to all electrical
standards adopted by the Allen County Building Department. A smoke detector
required under this section shall be installed according to the directions and
specifications of the manufacturer, but if in conflict with any county
electrical standard, the county electrical standard shall take precedence.
§ 94.073 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or
remove any smoke detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or
inspection purposes. Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement shall
be reinstalled or replaced so that it is operable and in place during normal
sleeping hours.
   (B)   Rental/leased dwelling units. Each smoke detector should be tested in
accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations to ensure it is in operable
condition. It shall be the responsibility of the tenant to maintain all smoke
detectors provided by the owner in good working order unless said smoke
detector requires A.C. power supply, then the responsibility for maintaining
the smoke detector shall be the responsibility of the owner, manager, or rental
agent.
   (C)   Owner-occupied dwelling living units. Each smoke detector should be
tested in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations to ensure it is in
operable condition. It shall be the responsibility of the owner occupant to
maintain all smoke detectors.
§ 94.074 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER, MANAGER, OR RENTAL AGENT.
   Every owner, or the manager or rental agent of such owner of any such
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the installation of operable smoke
detectors.
§ 94.075 FALSE ALARMS.
   The Police and Fire Department of the city shall maintain appropriate
records of all false alarms to which each Department responds.
(Am. Ord. 20-2017, passed 1-8-18)
Cross-reference:
   Alarm systems, see
Chapter 101
   Firefighting Fund, see §
94.015
§ 94.076 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Valparaiso Fire Department and the Department of Neighborhood Code
Enforcement shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of §§
94.070 through
94.075.
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 94.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. This
section shall further define Article 11 Chapter 1102 of the Fire Prevention
Code as published by the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission.
   BARBECUE PIT or GRILL. A stationary or portable device, with either
electric, gas or charcoal fuel, used for the preparation of food.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION. A situation where the Fire Department Officer in charge
determines that the fire may be capable of spreading or damaging other property
or that the smoke emissions may be offensive to occupants of surrounding
property.
   OPEN BURNING or OPEN FIRE.  Any burning of combustible materials out of
doors. Excluded is burning in a barbecue pit or grill where the base fuel for
heat is charcoal products.
   RECREATIONAL or CAMPFIRE. The burring of wood products other than refuse
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit. A RECREATIONAL or CAMPFIRE shall
have a total fuel area no greater than 36 inches in diameter and a fuel load
not to exceed two feet in height.
   REFUSE.  Garbage, rubbish, paper, leaves, grass, trade waste, trash, plastic
or other waste products.
   SMOKE NUISANCE. Smoke emissions may be deemed a nuisance when a complaint is
received that the smoke emissions are offensive to the complaining party.
   WOOD PRODUCTS.  Untreated and unpainted lumber or natural wood other than
leaves and vines.
§ 94.091 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or business shall kindle or maintain any open burning
consisting of a trash fire, leaf fire, bonfire, refuse fire, or other open
burning.
      (1)   Exemptions. The following types of fire may be allowed:
         (a)   Bonfires celebrating school pep rallies;
         (b)   Recreational camp fires for scouting or family cookout
activities;
         (c)   The Chief of the Fire Department may issue written permits for
bonfires at his discretion.
      (2)   All exemptions shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   A garden hose connected to a water supply, buckets, shovel, fire
extinguisher or other approved fire-extinguishing equipment shall be readily
available at the burn site.
         (b)   Permission to allow burning shall be obtained from the Fire
Department at least 24 hours in advance of the permitted open burning. The
permission shall be in writing and signed by the Fire Chief or his designee. A
designee of the Fire Chief shall be on site at the time of the permitted fire.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons planning on or desiring to undertake
recreational campfires for scouting or family cookout activities as set forth
in division (A)(1)(b) above shall not be required to obtain a burn permit for
such activities.
         (c)   Only wood products shall be burned—no leaves, paper or trash.
         (d)   A fire shall be attended by a responsible party listed on the
burn permit at all times until completely extinguished.
         (e)   If open burning creates a smoke nuisance, or a hazardous
condition exists, the open burning shall be immediately extinguished.
         (f)   A fire shall be located at least 24 feet away from any
structure, fence or right of way.
   (B)   Any person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally kindles, or
maintains any open burning consisting of a trash free, leaf fire, bonfire,
refuse fire, or other open burning that damages property of another person or
spreads to property of another person may be liable for criminal mischief.
   (C)   Burning other than mentioned in this chapter may be permitted provided
a variance pursuant to 326 IAC 4-11 has been approved and received from the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management. Burning must meet the
restrictions of the variance. The variance must be registered with the Fire
Department and on the burn site for verification.
   (D)   Penalties for violations of this chapter do not preclude the
Department of Environmental Management from seeking legal action for violations
of 326 IAC 4-1.
   (E)   Liability for fire. Any person who allows the accumulation or
existence of combustible material which constitutes or contributes to a fire
may not refute liability for violation of this chapter on the basis that said
fire was set by vandals, accidental or an act of God.
§ 94.092 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Fire Department, Police Department and the Department of Neighborhood
Code Enforcement shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of §
94.091.
INDOOR TIRE STORAGE PERMIT
§ 94.105 INDOOR TIRE STORAGE PERMIT.
   (A)   The provisions of this section concerning tire storage apply to all
structures where an excess of 100 tires, new, used or waste, are stored inside
a structure.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or representative of the business or structure
where an excess of 100 tires are stored shall obtain an information permit
issued by the Valparaiso Fire Department for the storage of tires inside a
structure. The permit must be made available upon request of a Fire Department
Official.
   (C)   The owner, occupant or representative of the business must submit the
following information:
      (1)   Name of the business;
      (2)   Name, date of birth, and social security number of business owner;
      (3)   Address where the tires are stored;
      (4)   Estimated maximum number of tires stored at the site;
      (5)   Name, date of birth, and social security number of the person
responsible for the tires;
      (6)   Address and phone number of person responsible for the tires; and
      (7)   A statement of acknowledgment, with the structure owner’s
signature, that the structure owner is aware that tires are being stored inside
the structure.
§ 94.106 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of
§
94.105.
TEMPORARY PROPANE TANK STORAGE
§ 94.120 TEMPORARY PROPANE TANK STORAGE PERMIT.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to all businesses where temporary
propane tanks are used for the purpose of heating roofing materials at a job
site.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or representative of the roofing business where
temporary propane tanks are used for the purpose of heating roofing materials
at a job site shall obtain an information permit issued by the Valparaiso Fire
Department Bureau of Fire Prevention for the temporary storage of propane tanks
near a structure. The permit must be made available upon request of a Fire
Department Official.
   (C)   The owner, occupant or representative of the business must submit the
following information for each job site having temporary propane storage:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the roofing company using the
propane;
      (2)   Name and phone number of emergency contact person for the roofing
company;
      (3)   Business name and address where propane tanks will be temporarily
stored; and
      (4)   Estimated number of days propane will be on-site.
§ 94.121 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of
§
94.120.
FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS
§ 94.130 FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS PERMITS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or agent of an organization, business or group
that uses any type of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects materials used
in motion pictures, television, and theatrical and group entertainment
productions, either indoors or outdoors, shall obtain an information permit
issued by the Valparaiso Bureau of Fire Prevention seven calendar days prior to
the use of the pyrotechnical devices. This permit shall be in addition to any
other permits required by federal or state agencies. The permit must be made
available upon request of a Fire Department Official. A fee of $50 shall
accompany any request for a Permit and shall be due and payable upon
application therefor.
   (B)   The storage, use and handing of fireworks and pyrotechnics special
effects shall be in accordance with IFC (675 IAC 22), Article 78 and I.C. 22-
11-14, and current edition of NFPA standard for fireworks.
   (C)   The Valparaiso Fire Department Pyrotechnics Permit must be signed by
the Fire Chief or his designee and contain the following information to be
valid:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the pyrotechnic company doing the
production or display;
      (2)   Name and qualifications of the pyrotechnic operator doing the
production or display;
      (3)   Contact name, address and phone for whom the production or display
is being performed;
      (4)   A detailed location where the display shall take place;
      (5)   Date and time of the display;
      (6)   Estimated number of pyrotechnical devices to be used and length of
show; and
      (7)   A copy of a certificate of insurance conditioned for damages and/or
injury to persons or property in the amount of not less than $100,000 shall be
attached to the permit.
§ 94.131 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Fire Department shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of
§
94.130.
FIRE TRUCK USE
§ 94.145 TRUCKS TO REMAIN IN CITY LIMITS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Except for motor vehicles utilized for personal use by authorized personnel
of the Fire Department, no fire truck, apparatus or equipment owned by the
city, unless authorized by the Chief of the Fire Department, shall be taken,
transported or used beyond the corporate limits of the City by any person
except in cases where City property is endangered or where such service is
requested by municipal officer of other cities and towns; provided, that where
the City has contracted to provide fire protection to another political
subdivision of this State or for the protection of the persons and property in
such subdivision, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
FIRE PREVENTION EDUCATION
§ 94.155 SCHOOL FIRE PREVENTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to require teachers
of public, private and parochial schools and educational institutions to have
one fire drill each month and to keep all doors and exits unlocked during
school hours.
FIREFIGHTER TRAINING SERVICES
§ 94.165 FEES.
   The Valparaiso Fire Department may impose a fee for all training services
offered to individuals, volunteer Fire Departments, or other professional
departments. The fee shall be agreed upon in writing before the training
program, and the proceeds shall be deposited in the Valparaiso Fire Department
training budget. Such fees shall be due upon receipt of the training. In the
event of a failure to pay, the individual or entity shall be responsible for
court costs and attorney fees that arise from any litigation necessary to
enforce this fee provision.
Cross-reference:
   Firefighting Fund, see
§ 94.015
ALS AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 94.170 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the text clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT, LEVEL I. The provision of an assessment by an
advanced life support provider and/or the provision of one or more advanced
life support interventions.
   (B)   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT, LEVEL 2. The administration of at least three
different medications and/or the provision of one or more of the following
advanced life support procedures: manual defibrillation/cardioversion,
endotracheal intubation, central venous line, external cardiac pacing, chest
decompression, surgical airway or intraosseus line.
   (C)   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT.  The provision of basic life support services as
defined in the National LMS Education and Practices Blueprint for the EMT-
Basic.
   (D)   NONRESIDENT. An individual who does not reside within the corporate
boundaries of the City of Valparaiso and/or un-incorporated Center Township in
Porter County at the time service is rendered or who does not pay property
taxes for real estate located within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Valparaiso and/or un-incorporated Center Township in Porter County which is
owned by the individual at the time service is rendered.
   (E)   RESIDENT. An individual who resides within the corporate boundaries of
the City of Valparaiso and/or un-incorporated Center Township in Porter County
at the time the service is rendered, or an individual who pays property taxes
for real estate located within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Valparaiso and/or un-incorporated Center Township in Porter County which is
owned by the individual at the time the service is rendered.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.171 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an Advanced Life Support - Ambulance Provider
Service within the Fire Department. The service shall be operated by the Fire
Department of the city and governed by the applicable policies and procedures
created and maintained by the Fire Chief; the applicable rules and regulations,
policies and procedures, and contractual agreements created, maintained, and
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety; and the applicable articles
as contained in the International Association of Firefighters, Local 1124,
collective bargaining agreement with the city.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.172 FEE SCHEDULE.
   There is hereby established the following fee schedule for the use of the
ambulance service. Effective September 1, 2020 and annually thereafter, the
rates established in divisions (A) through (E) shall automatically increase 3%.
   (A)   A charge of $600 for each transportation of an individual requiring
Basic Life Support (BLS);
   (B)   A charge of $850 for each transportation of an individual requiring
Advanced Life Support, Level 1 (ALS 1);
   (C)   A charge of $1,000 for each transportation of an individual requiring
Advanced Life Support, Level 2 (ALS 2).
   (D)   In addition to the fees described in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above,
each individual transported by the ambulance service shall be charged a mileage
fee of $13.00 per mile. The mileage fee shall be assessed on the miles traveled
from the location where the individual is picked up by the ambulance to the
hospital where the individual is transported.
   (E)   In addition to the fees described in divisions (A) through (D) above,
nonresidents shall be charged an additional fee of $100.
   (F)   A charge of $100 for each individual requiring advance life support
intervention and refusing transport thereafter.
   (G)   The fees charged pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be
modified so as to allow a reduction in ambulance transport fees to a rate
equivalent to the Medicare reimbursement rate at the time the ambulance service
is provided for wards of certain governmental entities, patients of certain
health care providers organizations, individuals affiliated with certain not-
for-profit organizations, and all employees/dependants of the city covered by
the city’s insurance plan. The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby
authorized and empowered to identify specific organizations and entities to be
included in the ambulance transport fee rate reduction established by this
section.
   (H)   A charge in an amount not to exceed $20 shall be made so as to
reimburse the city for expenses incurred when document requests and compliance
with court issued subpoenas require copying of Fire Department ambulance
records and forwarding of those records to the requesting party.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07; Am. Ord. 32-2010, passed 10-11-10; Am. Ord. 5,
2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 94.173 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee authorized by §
94.172 shall be assessed against any individual, or the lawful guardian of any
individual, or the estate of any individual, who receives emergency medical
service.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.174 LEGAL ACTION FOR COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The office of the City Attorney is hereby authorized and empowered to
initiate appropriate legal actions to collect fees due pursuant to § 94.172. In
addition to the fees due, reasonable attorney’s fees and costs associated to
such actions may be added to the fees due.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.175 FEES WAIVED.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized and empowered to
develop and approve a policy of waiving fees for residents in case of financial
hardship.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.176 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to this subchapter shall accrue to the
General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.177 RECIPROCAL AGREEMENTS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized and empowered to
execute reciprocal agreements with other emergency ambulances services
providing for cooperation between the emergency ambulance services, reciprocity
of memberships and any other coordination and cooperation between ambulance
services which the Board of Public Works and Safety determines to be in the
best interest of the city.
(Ord. 27-2007, passed 8-27-07)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violation any of the
provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Fire Chief, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey an lawful order given by
the Fire Chief, in connection with the provisions of this Code, for each such
violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall be liable
to the city for a civil forfeiture in the sum not less than $20, nor more than
$2,500. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this section shall constitute a separate offense. In all cases
where the same offense may be made punishable, or may be created by different
clauses or sections of the ordinances of the city, the City Attorney may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one civil penalty shall be had
against the same person for the same offense.
   (B)   There is hereby established the following citation schedule of
penalties for violations of the provisions of the City of Valparaiso Fire
Prevention Code. Penalties shall be paid to the Valparaiso Ordinance Violation
Bureau who shall deposit the funds in the Fire Fund of the Valparaiso Fire
Department. Such funds shall be expended for fire equipment and fire prevention
and/or to hire personnel whose responsibilities will include the responsibility
of conducting inspections. Any expenditures from that fund shall be
appropriated by the City Council.
      (1)   If the owner, operator or agent fails to correct a cited violation
of the Indiana Fire Prevention Code as adopted in §
94.004, the penalty shall be $50 for each violation cited. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue may be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. If the violator fails to appear in response to a notice issued to the
owner, operator, or agent after 30 calendar days from the date and time shown
on said notice issued, the penalty shall be $75.
      (2)   If the owner, occupant, manger or other agent fails to comply with
the recommendations of the inspector pursuant to an inspection authorized under
§
94.007, in action to any penalties for the specific violation resulting in the
recommendation, the failure to comply with the recommendations shall be a
violation of §
94.007. The first violation will result in $50 fine. The second violation will
result in a $75.
      (3)   If the owner, occupant, manager or other agent obstructs a fire
hydrant, Fire Department connection, or fire protection control valve they are
in violation of §
94.028 and the penalty shall be $50. Notice of violation shall be left with the
owner, occupant, manager or other agent in charge. If the violator fails to
appear in response to a notice issues after 30 calendar days from the date and
time shown the penalty shall be $75.
      (4)   If the owner, occupant, manager or other agent fails to install or
maintain portable fire extinguishers as required, they are in violation of §
94.029, and the penalty shall be $50. Notice of violation shall be left with
the owner, occupant, manager or other agent in charge. If the violator fails to
appear in response to a notice issued after 30 calendar days from the state and
time shown the penalty shall be $75.
      (5)   If the owner, operator, manager or agent of a commercial,
industrial, or public building fails to establish and maintain open fire lanes,
said owner, operator, manger, or agent shall be in violation of §
94.050. The penalty shall be $50. Each day such violation is permitted to
continue may be deemed to constitute a separate offense. If the violator fails
to appear in response to the notice issued after 30 calendar days from the date
and time shown on said notice the penalty shall be $75.
      (6)   If a vehicle with or without a licensed driver is parked or
obstructs a fire lane or if any other object obstructs a fire lane, in
violation of §
94.051, the penalty shall be $50. If the vioiator does not appear in response
to a notice affixed to such vehicle within a period of 30 calendar days from
the date and time shown on said notice, the penalty shall be $75.
      (7)   Any person, firm or corporation violating provisions of §
94.070 through §
94.074, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by
the authority having jurisdiction, shall be subject to a fine of $50. Each day
such violation is permitted to continue may be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The violation and penalty as described in §§
94.070 through
94.075 shall not be subject to any of the fine or penalty within this chapter.
      (8)   Any person who maintains burning of combustible materials out of
doors or open burning not permitted in §
94.090 through §
94.092 shall be in violation of §
94.90 et seq. The penalty shall be $50. If the violator does not appear in
response to a notice issued to them or placed in a notice location at the place
of residence, business or burn site within a period of 30 calendar days from
date and time shown on said notice, the penalty shall be $75.
      (9)   If the owner, operator, or representative fails to obtain a tire
storage permit as required in §
94.105 through §
94.106, the penalty shall be $50 for each violation cited. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue may be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. If the violator fails to appear in response to a notice issued to the
owner, operator, or representative after 30 calendar days from the date and
time shown on said notice issued, the penalty shall be $75.
      (10)   If the owner, operator, or representative fails to obtain a
temporary propane tank storage permit as required in §
94.120, the penalty shall be $50 for each violation cited. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue may be deemed a separate offense. If the
violator fails to appear in response to a notice issued to the owner, operator
or representative after 30 calendar days from the date and time shown on said
notice issued, the penalty shall be $75.
      (11)   If the owner, operator, or representative fails to obtain a
fireworks and pyrotechnics permit as required in §
94.130 to §
94.131, the penalty shall be $50 for each violation cited. Each day such a
violation is permitted to continue may be deemed a separate offense. If the
violator fails to appear in response to a notice issued to the owner, operator,
or representative after 30 calendar days from the date and time shown on said
notice issued, the penalty shall be $75.
(Am. Ord. 20-2017, passed 1-8-18)
Cross-reference:
   Firefighting Fund, see
§ 94.015
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Regulations
   
95.01   Conformity with city specifications required
   
95.02   Copies of standards and specifications available
   
95.03   Gasoline pumps restricted
   
95.04   Right-of-way cuts
Sidewalk Regulations
   
95.15   Minimum width
   
95.16   Conformity with city plans required
   
95.17   Sidewalks required
   
95.18   Waiver required
   
95.19   Recording of waiver
   
95.20   Construction material
   
95.21   Sidewalk openings
   
95.22   Permit required
Excavations
   
95.35   Excavations or work in right-of-way restricted
   
95.36   Permit application
   
95.37   Performance and damage bond required
   
95.38   Insurance required
   
95.39   Separate permits required
   
95.40   Permit approval and issuance
   
95.41   Permit fee
   
95.42   Traffic control procedures
   
95.43   Standards and specifications for construction
   
95.44   Inspections
   
95.45   Excavation/permit time limit
   
95.46   Obstructions prohibited
   
95.47   Manual
   
95.98   Violation
   
Appendix: Waiver of Obligation to Installation of Sidewalk and Assessment
Thereof
STREET REGULATIONS
§ 95.01 CONFORMITY WITH CITY SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The construction, building, remodeling or replacement of any sewers,
drains or streets within the corporate boundaries of the city shall conform
with the standards and specifications adopted by the city by passage of
Ordinance 18 of 1974, as the standards are amended from time to time.
   (B)   The provisions of the Ordinance are hereby adopted by reference and
made part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
      (1)   Any discharge from a surface or subsurface drain, including, but
not limited to, clear water sump pumps, footing drains, downspout drains or
similar drains as determined by the Office of the City Engineer or the City
Board of Public Works and Safety, shall not occur closer than ten feet from any
public street right-of-way line without the approval of the Board, except for
those drains and similar discharges specifically exempted by this subchapter.
      (2)   The following are exempted from the discharge limitations of
subsection (1) above:
         (a)   Drains installed pursuant to specific approval through the city
site review and permit process;
         (b)   Drains from improvements located in the C3 general commercial or
C4 central business zones, as defined in the City Zoning Ordinance, except that
the drains from improvements in these zones shall conform to the requirements
of the Site Review Committee and/or the City Engineer; or
         (c)   Certain roadside locations where a ditch or swale exists or is
to be constructed to carry runoff from the site and the roadway, except that
the City Engineer must determine in writing that the installation will not
cause harm to sidewalks or road pavements.
      (3)   Owners of properties where the strict enforcement of this
subchapter will cause hardships such as basement seepage or other similar
conditions may petition for a review of the situation by the Site Review
Committee. The Committee, after reviewing the circumstances and hearing the
petitioner may, at its discretion, grant a full or partial waiver from the
terms of this subchapter. Any waiver granted under this division shall be
issued in writing by the City Engineer.
      (4)   This subchapter shall be retroactive and shall cover drain
installations that predate this subchapter.
      (5)   Owners of drains that exist at the time of this subchapter and that
violate the conditions of this subchapter shall be allowed 30 days from the
date of written notice received from the City Engineer to cause their drain or
drains to conform with the requirements of this subchapter and shall be exempt
from any penalty during that period. If after the 30-day period the drain is
not in compliance with this subchapter, enforcement may proceed as follows:
         (a)   The Building Commissioner may refuse to issue a certificate of
occupancy for the site in question;
         (b)   The Building Commissioner may refuse to issue building permits
for other projects for which the violating owner has applied until the
necessary corrections are made; and/or
         (c)   The Board may pursue judicial relief against any person who
continues the violation beyond the 30-day correction period stipulated in
subsection (5) above, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined for each
violation. Each day in which the violation shall continue may be deemed a
separate offense.
      (6)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
      (7)   The conditions of this subchapter shall in no way be construed to
allow direct or indirect connections from the sources listed in subsection (1)
above to the sanitary sewer system of the city.
      (8)   Any person aggrieved by the conditions of this subchapter may
appeal to the Board of Public Works and Safety for relief from the conditions.
(‘89 Code, § 90.01) (Am. Ord. passed 6-10-96)
§ 95.02 COPIES OF STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS AVAILABLE.
   Two copies of the Standards and Specifications shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. Copies may be
purchased by any person at a price established by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 90.02) (Am. Ord. passed 6-10-96)
§ 95.03 GASOLINE PUMPS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall build or construct any oil or gasoline pump of any type
whatsoever upon or within any street, sidewalk or dedicated way within the
limits of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 90.03) (Am. Ord. passed 6-10-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY CUTS.
   A manual on proper right-of-way cuts is hereby adopted by reference and made
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein, and may be amended
from time to time. Two copies of the manual shall be available for public
viewing at all times in the City Engineer’s office. The manual, as amended,
shall have the full force and effect of a municipal ordinance.
(‘89 Code, § 90.03) (Am. Ord. passed 6-10-96)
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
§ 95.15 MINIMUM WIDTH.
   No sidewalk constructed in the city shall have a width of less than four
feet. All sidewalks or curb ramps constructed or reconstructed in the city
shall meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act per the
Federal Highway Administration standards.
(‘89 Code, § 91.01)
§ 95.16 CONFORMITY WITH CITY PLANS REQUIRED.
   All sidewalk construction must conform to the city standard and
specifications adopted by passage of Ordinance 18 of 1974, as the standards are
amended from time to time. The provisions of the Ordinance are hereby made a
part of this code by reference.
(‘89 Code, § 91.02)
§ 95.17 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any building, house or other structure prior to
the time sidewalks are constructed meeting the requirements of this subchapter
existing at the time of the proposed occupancy.
   (B)   However, where the Board of Public Works and Safety finds the
existence of conditions of either subsections (1), (2) and (3) combined with
(4) below, the Board of Public Works and Safety may, upon application of the
property owner and the filing of the waiver required by §
95.18, waive the requirements of this section:
      (1)   The building, house or other structure, is built upon plot of
ground in excess of 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   The plot of ground upon which the building, house or other
structure is built, has a width at the building set back line in excess of 75
feet;
      (3)   Where the plot of ground adjoins other plots of ground occupied by
buildings, houses or other structures, and sidewalks have not been constructed
on the adjoining plots of ground as of December 13, 1965; and
      (4)   The Board of Public Works and safety finds that the absence of
sidewalks will not adversely affect the public health and safety of the city
and its citizens.
(‘89 Code, § 91.03)
§ 95.18 WAIVER REQUIRED.
   Prior to any waiver of sidewalk requirements by the Board of Public Works
and Safety pursuant to §
95.16, the property owner must execute a written waiver of remonstrance
acknowledged before a notary public to any sidewalk improvement project
initiated by the Board at any time in the future, the waiver being in the form
and tenor substantially as set out in the appendix to this chapter, all blanks
to be filled in properly at the time of execution.
(‘89 Code, § 91.04)
§ 95.19 RECORDING OF WAIVER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered and required to record all executed
waivers as described in §
95.18 above in the Office of the County Recorder, and further the Clerk-
Treasurer is empowered and required to collect the necessary fee for recording
the waiver from applicants.
(‘89 Code, § 91.05)
§ 95.20 CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks constructed in the city shall conform to the specifications as
adopted by passage of Ordinance 19 of 1974, as the specifications are amended
from time to time.
(‘89 Code, § 91.06)
§ 95.21 SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   No person shall leave or keep open any cellar door, window grating or vault
on any sidewalk so as to endanger life and limb.
(‘89 Code, § 91.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall install, repair or replace any public sidewalk
without first obtaining a right-of-way cut permit from the Office of the City
Engineer.
(‘89 Code, § 91.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.35 EXCAVATIONS OR WORK IN RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTRICTED.
   No person shall perform any work, excavate, dig, remove, plant or place any
objects in the streets, highways, alleys, or public grounds of the city without
first obtaining a permit from the city.
(‘89 Code, § 92.01) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.36 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to make any openings in any of the streets, highways,
alleys or public grounds of the city, or to excavate or dig therein, shall file
four copies of the application provided by the city, along with one set of
plans, in the office of the City Engineer.
(‘89 Code, § 92.02)
§ 95.37 PERFORMANCE AND DAMAGE BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall file a recorded bond in the penal sum of not less than
$5,000, conditioned for the performance of the work and the maintenance of the
work for a period of one year from the completion of the work, all in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 92.03)
§ 95.38 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The applicant shall further furnish to the city, at the time of making
application, proof of the fact that he or she is covered by liability insurance
in an amount not less than $250,000 for property damage and $250,000 for injury
to any one person, and $1,000,000 for any one occurrence. The applicant shall
prove to the satisfaction of the city the payment of a premium for the
insurance so that the city will be protected for a period of one year from the
date of the commencement of the work.
   (B)   The applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, exculpate and hold harmless
the city, its officials and employees, from any liability due to loss, damage,
injuries or other casualties of whatsoever kind, or by whomsoever caused, to
the person or property of anyone on or off the right-of-way arising out of, or
resulting from the issuance of this permit or the work connected therewith, or
from the installation, existence, use, maintenance, condition, repairs,
alteration or removal of any equipment or material, whether due in whole or in
part to the negligent acts or omissions of the city, its officials, agents, or
employees, or the applicant, his or her agents or employees, or other persons
engaged in the performance of the work, or the joint negligence of any of them,
including any claims arising out of the workmen’s compensation act or any other
law, ordinance, order or decree for a period of two years. The applicant also
agrees to pay all reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred by or
imposed on the city in connection herewith in the event that the applicant
shall default under the provisions of this division.
(‘89 Code, § 92.04)
§ 95.39 SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A separate permit shall be obtained for the making of separate openings and
excavations. However, a person may file one bond to cover and apply to all work
to be done under several permits.
(‘89 Code, § 92.05)
§ 95.40 PERMIT APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon the filing of the application and bond, the City Engineer or his or her
representative shall approve the application by endorsing his or her approval
thereon. The application shall be forwarded to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
issue the permit to the applicant.
(‘89 Code, § 92.06)
§ 95.41 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer, a fee to be
determined by the City Engineer or his or her representative. This fee shall
become part of the MVH Fund of the city. This fee will be based on the
following standard fees:
      Administrative      $10
      Initial Permit Review   $10
      Interim Inspection      $10
      Final inspection      $10
      Standard Permit Fee      $40
      (2)   The above listed fees are based on a per 500 linear foot of
excavation or any part thereof, each additional 500 linear feet of excavation
or any part thereof, shall require approximately two additional Interim
Inspections, and thus an additional $20 fee charge per 500 linear feet.
      Example:   1’ to 500’ = $40
               501’ to 1,000’ = $60
               1,001’ to 1,500’ = $80...and the like
   (B)   Exception.
      (1)   Pavement cuts shall be restricted on streets that have been
resurfaced within three years of the date of permit application, as well as
certain arterial or collector streets as listed below:
Street From To
Street             From             To
Calumet Avenue     Morgan Boulevard North City Limits
Campbell Street    U.S. 30          North City Limits
Chicago Street     Lincolnway       East City Limits
Evans Avenue       Campbell Street  East City Limits
Franklin Street    South Street     Glendale Boulevard
Garfield Avenue    Linwood Avenue   Elm Street
Glendale Boulevard Clover Lane      East City Limits
Indiana Avenue     Campbell Street  Garfield Avenue
Jefferson Street   Campbell Street  Roosevelt Road
Joliet Road        West City Limits Lincolnway
Lafayette Street   Brown Street     Glendale Boulevard
Laporte Avenue     Garfield Avenue  49 Bypass
Linwood Avenue     U.S. 30          Union Street
Michigan Street    Indiana Avenue   Jefferson Street
Morgan Boulevard   Union Street     Calumet Avenue
Napoleon Street    Brown Street     Glendale Boulevard
Roosevelt Road     Laporte Avenue   Calumet Avenue
Sturdy Road        Laporte Avenue   Vale Park Road
Vale Park Road     West City Limits East City Limits
Valparaiso Street  Evans Avenue     North City Limits
Washington Street  U.S. 30          Glendale Boulevard
 
      (2)   When alternative methods are not possible, such as in cases of
emergency repairs or taps on existing facilities located under pavement, fee
charges shall be adjusted as follows:
 
Pavement 0 to 12 months old  4 x standard fee
Pavement 12 to 24 months old 3 x standard fee
Pavement 24 to 36 months old 2 x standard fee
Pavement 36 months or older  standard fee
 
   (C)   Sidewalk permit. In the case of a permit issued for the purpose of
installing or replacing a sidewalk within the right-of-way, an inspection for
correctness of forms and grade will be required before any concrete can be
poured. This will usually be the only inspection required, therefore, fee
charges will be adjusted accordingly. A permit for sidewalk installation will
thus be $20. Exception: This permit and its associated fee shall be waived if
the sidewalk is reconstructed through the Valparaiso Street Department Sidewalk
Reconstruction Program.
   (D)   Residential driveway approach. In the case of a permit issued for the
purpose of installing or replacing a residential driveway approach within the
right-of-way, an inspection for correctness of forms and grade will be required
before any concrete can be poured. This will usually be the only inspection
required, therefore, fee charges will be adjusted accordingly. A permit for a
residential driveway approach installation will thus be $20. Exception: This
permit and its associated fee shall be waived if the driveway is reconstructed
through the Valparaiso Street Department Sidewalk Reconstruction Program.
   (E)   Commercial driveway approach. In the case of a permit issued for the
purpose of installing or replacing a commercial driveway approach within the
right-of-way, an inspection for correctness of forms and grade will be required
before any concrete can be poured. A final inspection will also be required;
therefore, fee charges will be adjusted accordingly. A permit for a commercial
driveway approach installation will thus be $30. Exception: This permit and its
associated fee shall be waived if the driveway is reconstructed through the
Valparaiso Street Department Sidewalk Reconstruction Program.
   (F)   Appeal. If applicant feels that denial of a permit is unjustified, he
or she may appeal that decision through the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(‘89 Code, § 92.07)
§ 95.42 TRAFFIC CONTROL PROCEDURES.  
   Traffic controls for utility construction and maintenance operations shall
conform with OSHA Standards and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways. All construction and maintenance operations should be
planned with full regard to safety and keeping traffic interference to an
absolute minimum. On arterial streets or streets within the Downtown Business
District, as defined by the Zoning Ordinance, construction or maintenance
operations interfering with traffic shall need to be coordinated with the City
Engineer in order to establish working hours.
§ 95.43 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   See Specifications and Standards for Acceptance of Municipal Improvements
Part F: Street Excavation Repair and Illustrations F01 — F07.
§ 95.44 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections. All repairs shall be made in accordance with the city’s
specifications and other applicable codes and requirements. Failure to install
facilities in accordance with these policies will result in immediate
suspension of further construction activities at the site until corrective
measures have been made to the satisfaction of the city, and/or forfeiture of
bond. Any inspection by the city shall in no way relieve the utility or
contractor of any duty or responsibility to the general public nor shall such
services and/or control by the city relieve the utility or contractor from any
liability for loss, damage, or injury to persons or adjacent properties.
   (B)   Interim inspection. All interim inspections are to be done by the
Engineer’s office.
   (C)   Final inspection.
      (1)   Upon completion of the work, the contractor/utility is required to
contact the Street Commissioner’s Office for a final inspection. The Street
Commissioner or his representative shall verify that all of the conditions of
the permit have been met and work is in compliance with city standards. Any
equipment, surplus materials and construction debris of any description shall
be removed and the entire area put in a neat and orderly condition. All
manholes, catch basins, or other structures disturbed or adjacent thereto shall
be examined, any debris caused by the contractor shall be removed therefrom, or
any damage caused by the contractor shall be repaired by the contractor.
      (2)   Upon acceptance by the Street Commissioner or his or her
representative, the date of completion shall be noted on the permit form along
with his or her signature. The contractor’s Performance and Damage Bond shall
guarantee the maintenance of the work for a period of one year from that date.
§ 95.45 EXCAVATION/PERMIT TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Upon approval of the Permit, the applicant shall have a three-month
(90 days) period in which to complete construction. In the event that
construction may require additional time for completion, a 30-day extension may
be granted to applicant at no additional cost provided said extension is
applied for prior to expiration of permit time. If extension request is not
submitted prior to permit expiration, construction will be halted until such
time as contractor/utility shall reapply for an additional Right-of- Way Cut
Permit, and all approvals and charges shall be necessary.
   (B)   No opening in any street, highway, alley or public grounds of the city
shall remain open for a period of more than ten consecutive days. If the
opening is made within the paved areas, the opening shall not remain open for
more than 24 hours. The Board of Public Works and Safety may grant an extension
of time on excavation openings upon presentation by the permit holder of good
and sufficient reason for the extension.
(‘89 Code, § 92.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.46 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect or place any building, fence or other obstruction,
such as a basketball pole, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way or
public grounds in the city.
(‘89 Code, § 92.09) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.47 MANUAL.
   The city shall publish for distribution to interested persons a manual
entitled A Manual on Proper Right-of-Way Cuts, which is incorporated herein by
reference and made part of this section the same as if set forth in full
herein.
(‘89 code, § 92.11)
§ 95.98 VIOLATION.
   In addition to any and all other remedies set forth in this ordinance for a
violation thereof, the City Engineer may, for any violation of this chapter,
levy a fine against the violator of up to $50 for each occurrence, each day
being a separate occurrence. The City Engineer shall notify the violator of
such fine, in writing, on a form approved by the Board of Public Works &
Safety. The violator shall pay the levied fine through the Local Ordinance
Violations Bureau. The City Engineer may levy a fine for each and every day
that the violation is continued.
APPENDIX: WAIVER OF OBJECTION TO INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALK AND ASSESSMENT
THEREOF
TO: The Board of Public Works and Safety and the Common Council of the City of
Valparaiso and the City of Valparaiso
The undersigned respectfully represent that they are the owners of certain real
estate located within the existing corporate boundaries of the City of
Valparaiso and which real estate is legally described as follows, to-wit:
(Insert legal description.)
That in consideration of the waiver of the requirements of the installation of
sidewalks serving the above premises before any structure is occupied thereon
as granted by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Valparaiso,
Indiana, we agree in our own behalf and in behalf of our heirs, executors,
administrators, assigns, grantees and successors in title that when and if the
said Board of Public Works and Safety proposes an improvement project ordering
the installation of sidewalks to serve said premises and the levying of
assessments for the payment thereof, we will not object or remonstrate against
such improvement project nor protest against the carrying out of said project
nor bring any action at law or in equity to restrain or stop the consummation
of said project.
      This Agreement shall be covenant running with the land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto affixed our hands and seals this ___ day
of ______, 20___.
STATE OF INDIANA)
   ) SS:
COUNTY OF PORTER)
Before me, the undersigned, a ___________, personally appeared ____________,
who acknowledged the execution of the above waiver of objection and consent to
sidewalk improvement for the purposes therein stated as their free and
voluntary act.
___________________________________
My Commission Expires: _____________
Accepted by the City of Valparaiso acting through its Mayor   and City Clerk-
Treasurer, this __________ day of _______, 20___.
_______________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________
Clerk-Treasurer
CHAPTER 96: NOISE
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   General prohibitions
   
96.03   Specific restrictions
   
96.04   Quantitative limits
   
96.05   Exemptions and permits
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Scientific Definitions
   
Appendix B: Octave-Band Breakdowns
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
terminology used in this chapter shall be in conformance with applicable
publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its
successor body.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The loudness of a sound measured through a filtering
device intended to simulate human hearing. The level is designated dB(A) or
dBA.
   COMMERCIAL ZONE. Areas within the city where commercial activity may
lawfully be conducted.
   DECIBEL (dB).  A unit for measuring the sound pressure level of a sound.
   FREQUENCY. An objective way to describe the pitch of a sound.
   HERTZ (Hz).  A unit for measuring the frequency of a sound (sometimes called
“cycles per second”).
   INDUSTRIAL ZONE.  Areas within the city where industrial activity may
lawfully be conducted.
   LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight less
than 8,000 pounds including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-
karts, minibikes, trail bikes and light trucks.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM.  Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered or replaced to produce more noise.
   NOISE.  Any unwanted sound.
   OCTAVE BAND.  A way to divide the entire frequency range of sound into
sections for more accurate measurements.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE.  Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONES.  Areas within the city where residential uses may
lawfully exist.
   SOUND LEVEL METER.  An instrument designed to measure sound pressure levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. An objective way to describe the loudness of a sound.
(Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-10-20)
§ 96.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restrictions listed in the following sections.
(Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-10-20)
§ 96.03 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, tape or record players,
amplifiers and similar devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any such device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. in such a manner
as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions
common to two or more persons within a building.
   (B)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
lawnmower, snowblower or similar device used outdoors between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:30 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby. Snowblowers shall be allowed after 5:00 a.m. to clear
newly fallen snow.
   (C)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tool or
equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 7:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby. Between the period of May 1 and September 30, the
time allowed to engage in construction activity shall be extended to include 30
minutes after sunset as such is determined by the U.S. Department of Commerce -
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   (D)   Horns and signaling devices. Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required
by law.
   (E)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. Participation in any
party or gathering between the hours 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. giving rise to
noise that is plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions
common to two or more persons within a building.
   (F)   Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which by causing frequent or
long continued noise shall disturb or annoy any reasonable person nearby.
(Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-10-20)
§ 96.04 QUANTITATIVE LIMITS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level of the noise emitted during the operation of a light motor vehicle to
exceed 80 dBA in speed zones of 35 mph or less within the corporate limits of
the city. The sound pressure level measurement shall be made at a distance of
not less than 15 feet from the edge of the lane of travel of the violator.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a light motor
vehicle which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified
exhaust system or as a result of an unnecessary rapid acceleration, de-
acceleration, engine revving or tire squealing.
   (B)   Stationary source. See Appendix B for octave-band breakdowns of the
dBA limits for each zone.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure
level to exceed the limits listed below at any point on the boundary of the
property where the person is located:
         (a)   If the person is located within a residential zone: 55 dBA
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.;
         (b)   If the person is located within a commercial zone: 65 dBA at all
times;
         (c)   If the person is located within an industrial zone: 75 dBA at
all times.
      (2)   If the property boundary lies between two zones, the lower limit
shall apply regardless of the zone in which the person creating the noise is
located.
      (3)   In addition to the above, no person within a residential or a
commercial zone shall make or cause to be made any earth-shaking vibrations
perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the property boundary of the
vibration source. No person within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be
made any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments
beyond the zone boundary of the zone in which the vibration source is located.
(Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-10-20)
§ 96.05 EXEMPTIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of work
to prevent or alleviate physical or property damage threatened or caused by a
public calamity or other emergency.
      (2)   Any activity allowed by federal and/or state law.
      (3)   Any activity or event that is either solely conducted by the city
or Valparaiso School Corporation or conducted in cooperation with another
organization by either the city or Valparaiso School Corporation, including
parades, sporting events, or concerts.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the authority to issue
permits to allow for certain activities that might otherwise be prohibited.
Permits may be issued for:
      (1)   Celebrations, concerts, parades or other special events (public or
personal).
      (2)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community or other persons and that the adverse impact on the health, safety
and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by such
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions (including a time limit) that are
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity. Noncompliance with any
condition of the permit shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to
the provisions of this chapter. The Board of Public Works and Safety may issue
guidelines defining the procedures to be followed in applying for a permit and
the specific criteria to be considered in deciding whether to issue a permit.
(Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 8-10-20)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of the motor vehicle noise limits set
forth in this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense; not less than $75 for
the second offense; and not less than $150 for the third or subsequent
offenses.
   (C)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   During any trial concerning the provisions of this chapter, the court
may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a sound level meter
which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for Type II equipment.
APPENDIX A: SCIENTIFIC DEFINITIONS
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.  The sound pressure level of a sound measured
through an A- weighting filter network. The level read is designated dB(A) or
dBA.
   DECIBEL (dB).  The unit used for comparing the sound pressure level of a
sound to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure
of 20 micropascals.
   FREQUENCY.  The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations or waves per
unit time (usually one second).
   HERTZ (HZ).  The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The
number of hertz is the number of cycles per second of a periodic sound pressure
wave.
   OCTAVE BAND.  A portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum contained
between two frequencies A and B such that A = 2B.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  Twenty times the logarithm (base 10) of the ratio of
the measured sound pressure to a reference pressure of 20 micropascals. The
sound pressure level is expressed in decibels (dB).
   SPL = 20 LOG10   sound pressure A
               sound pressure B
   Sound pressure A = measured sound pressure
   Sound pressure B = reference sound pressure (20 micropascals)
APPENDIX B: OCTAVE-BAND BREAKDOWNS
   The octave-band breakdowns of the dBA limits used in this chapter shall be:
   (A)   For a residential zone: (55 dBA)
Octave-band center frequency (Hz) Maximum boundary SPL (dB)
31.5                              72
63                                71
125                               65
250                               57
500                               51
1,000                             45
2,000                             39
4,000                             34
8,000                             32
 
   (B)   For a commercial zone: (64 dBA)
Octave-band center frequency (Hz) Maximum boundary SPL (dB)
31.5                              79
63                                78
125                               73
250                               67
500                               61
1,000                             55
2,000                             50
4,000                             46
8,000                             43
 
   (C)   For an industrial zone: (66 dBA)
Octave-band center frequency (Hz) Maximum boundary SPL (dB)
31.5                              80
63                                79
125                               74
250                               69
500                               63
1,000                             57
2,000                             52
4,000                             48
8,000                             45
 
CHAPTER 97: NONSMOKING AREAS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Application of chapter to city-owned facilities
   
97.03   Smoking prohibited in public places
   
97.04   Smoking in places of employment prohibited
   
97.05   Reasonable distance
   
97.06   Where smoking is not regulated
   
97.07   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
97.08   Posting of signs
   
97.09   Enforcement
   
97.10   Non-retaliation
   
97.11   Other applicable laws
   
97.12   Chapter to be broadly interpreted
   
97.13   Effective date and deadlines for exemption applications
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following have the following meanings unless
otherwise designated:
   BAR. Any establishment used for the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and which holds a beer-wine ("two-way"),
or a beer-wine-liquor ("three-way") retailer's permit under the laws of Indiana
including, but not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, and cocktail lounges.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the
floor to the ceiling.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, emotional, other medical, physiological,
or psychological conditions including, but not limited to, hospitals,
rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics including weight control clinics,
nursing homes, hospices, or homes for the aging or chronically ill.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment including, but not limited to, work areas, private offices, employee
lounges and restrooms, conference and class rooms, employee cafeterias and
hallways.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization exempt from federal income taxation under 26
USC § 501(c) and defined as a CLUB and eligible to receive a CLUB PERMIT under
I.C. 7.1-3-20-1 or as a FRATERNAL CLUB as defined by I.C. 7.1-3-20-7.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area used by the general public including, but
not limited to, retail stores and financial institutions, department stores,
banks, laundromats, beauty and barber shops, retail food production and
marketing establishments, retail service establishments, and other commercial
establishments, regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission to the
place.
   RESTAURANT. Any establishment used as or held out to the public as having
food available for payment to be consumed on the premises, including coffee
shops, cafeterias, cafes, luncheonettes, sandwich stands and soda fountains.
RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the RESTAURANT. An establishment of
this type which includes a bar and which chooses to apply for and receives an
exemption under §
97.06 shall not be a RESTAURANT, but shall be a BAR.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include retail stores where
food or beverages are sold for consumption on the premises or where an area has
been set-aside on the premises for customers to consume food or beverages.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The act of lighting, carrying, inhaling from, or leaving a
lighted or smoldering cigar, cigarette, or pipe of any kind.
   THEATER. Any enclosed facility, open to the public, which is primarily used
for or designed for the purpose of exhibiting any motion picture, stage
presentation, musical recital, dance, lecture or other similar performance.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   All enclosed facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or
operated by the city, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.03 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the
city including, but not limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums.
      (2)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public including, but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, and hotels or motels
(except as provided in §
97.06(B)).
      (3)   Bars, unless an exemption has been issued under §
97.06.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast facilities.
      (5)   Bingo facilities.
      (6)   Convention facilities.
      (7)   Elevators.
      (8)   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage
presentation, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance, unless
exempted by §
97.06.
      (9)   Health care facilities.
      (10)   Licensed childcare and adult day care facilities.
      (11)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities.
      (12)   Polling places.
      (13)   Public transportation facilities including buses and taxicabs,
under the authority of the city and ticketing, boarding, and waiting areas of
public transit depots.
      (14)   Private clubs unless an exemption has been issued under §
97.06.
      (15)   Restaurants. Smoking is also prohibited in any outside eating or
drinking areas provided by the restaurant to its patrons.
      (16)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-
use areas.
      (17)   Retail stores.
      (18)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the city.
      (19)   Schools.
      (20)   Service lines.
      (21)   Shopping malls.
      (22)   Sports or entertainment arenas, including enclosed places in
outdoor arenas or venues and in grandstands and other seating areas.
   (B)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person having control of the area.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.04 SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment. This includes, but is not limited to, common work areas,
auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles, and all other enclosed facilities.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.05 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited within a reasonable distance from an enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter, but in no event any closer
than 15 feet, so as to insure that tobacco smoke does not enter into
establishments designated as smoke-free under this chapter through entrances,
windows, ventilation intakes or other means.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.06 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   The prohibitions of §
97.03 shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as:
      (1)   A licensed childcare, adult day care, or health care facility; or
      (2)   Any business open to the public.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided however, that not more than 30% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (C)   A retail tobacco store provided that:
      (1)   It meets the definition of a “retail tobacco store” in §
97.01;
      (2)   It applies for and is granted an exemption by the city under the
deadlines provided in §
97.13; and
      (3)   If it is contained in a building which contains any other business
or residence, it supplies with its application for exemption on a form provided
by the city a signed affidavit from the authorized representative of a business
which designs, installs, or inspects heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning
systems and which is a business bonded in Porter County which affidavit states
that the retail tobacco store and its ventilation system is separated from the
rest of the building and from its ventilation system(s) such that smoke from
the store will not infiltrate these other areas.
   (D)   Family-owned and operated businesses in which all employees are
related to the owner, and offices of self-employed persons in which all
employees are related to the self-employed person, but only if the enclosed
areas these businesses and offices occupy are not open to the public.
   (E)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except for:
      (1)   Outdoor seating areas for patrons in restaurants; and
      (2)   Grandstands or other outside seating at public events.
   (F)   A bar provided that:
      (1)   It meets the definition of a "bar" in §
97.01;
      (2)   It applies for and is granted an exemption by the city under the
deadlines provided in §
97.13;
      (3)   It allows no customer to enter at any time who is under the age of
18;
      (4)   It employs no person under the age of 18; and
      (5)   If it is contained in a building which contains any other business
or residence, it supplies with its application for exemption on a form provided
by the city a signed affidavit from the authorized representative of a business
which designs, installs, or inspects heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning
systems and which is a business bonded in Porter County which affidavit states
that the bar and its ventilation system is separated from the rest of the
building and from its ventilation system(s) such that smoke from the bar will
not infiltrate these other areas.
   (G)   A private club provided that:
      (1)   It meets the definition of a "private club" in §
97.01;
      (2)   It applies for and is granted an exemption by the city under the
deadlines provided in §
97.13;
      (3)   If it is contained in a building which contains any other business
or residence, it supplies with its application for exemption on a form provided
by the city a signed affidavit from the authorized representative of a business
which designs, installs, or inspects heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning
systems and which is a business bonded in Porter County which affidavit states
that the private club and its ventilation system is separated from the rest of
the building and from its ventilation system(s) such that smoke from the
private club will not infiltrate these other areas.
   (H)   Any vehicle used by an employee while in the service of an employer
when the vehicle is occupied only by that employee.
    (I)   Smoking by actors on stage during and as part of a performance,
provided that the audience is warned prior to the start of the performance that
such will occur.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.07 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.08 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is permitted
under §
97.06 shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly warning
that smoking is permitted therein. The city shall make such signs available for
such places.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter may post signs stating that smoking is not permitted therein.
The city shall make such signs available for such places.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the City Administrator and the City
Legal Department, or their designees.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the City Administrator or his or her designee.
   (C)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.10 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
such employee, applicant, or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this chapter.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.11 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted to permit smoking where it is
otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supersede any local laws
which are more restrictive.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.12 CHAPTER TO BE BROADLY INTERPRETED.
   This chapter shall be construed broadly to effectuate the purposes described
in the preamble of Ordinance No. 15-2007.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.13 EFFECTIVE DATE AND DEADLINES FOR EXEMPTION APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall take effect on April 1, 2007.
   (B)   Any bar, private club, or retail tobacco store seeking exemption under
§
97.06 must request such on a form provided by the city. If all requirements set
forth in §
97.06 are fulfilled, the city shall grant such exemption in writing. The
exemption shall cover the following calendar year (except that in 2007, it
shall cover the balance of 2007). Such requests must be received by the last
business day of November of each year to cover the exemption for the following
year (except that in 2007, it must be received by March 1, 2007). To defray
administrative expenses in connection therewith, each application shall be
accompanied by a fee of $50.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $50.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation.
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year.
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation within one
year.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 49-2006, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 15-2007, passed 3-12-07)
CHAPTER 98: FIREWORKS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Discharge prohibited; exception
   
98.03   Nuisance; unsafe use; public/private property
   
98.04   Parental responsibility
   
98.05   Liability for fire and other damage
   
98.06   Local permit to sell fireworks
   
98.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks and pyrotechnics, see §§
94.130 et seq. and §
130.04
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following have the following meanings unless
otherwise designated:
   BANNED FIREWORKS.  All items listed in I.C. 22-11-14-8(a), as amended, or
any other type of fireworks prohibited by federal, state, or local law.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS, SPECIAL FIREWORKS, and FIREWORKS. All have the same
meanings as provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.02 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as provided below, it is unlawful for any person to ignite,
shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged, any fireworks
and/or banned fireworks within the limits of the city, or to allow another to
ignite, shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged, any
fireworks and/or banned fireworks on property owned or leased by them within
the limits of the city. Notwithstanding the preceding prohibition, use of
consumer fireworks and/or special fireworks shall be allowed as follows:
      (1)   Public displays where a permit is granted pursuant to I.C. 22-11-
14-2 or 22-11-14-3.5 and such display occurs on the days and times provided in
§
98.02(A)(2);
      (2)   Consistent with I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c)(3), as amended, consumer
fireworks on the following dates and times:
         (a)   Between 5:00 p.m. and 2 hours after sunset from June 29 to July
3;
         (b)   10:00 a.m. to midnight on July 4;
         (c)   Between 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset from July 5 to July
9; and
         (d)   10:00 a.m. on December 31 to 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
   (B)   Should I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c)(3) be amended to either expand or limit
the number of days and/or hours that a municipality cannot limit the use of
consumer fireworks, such change shall be incorporated by reference without need
to amend this section.
   (C)   Consumer fireworks and/or special fireworks on other dates and times
may be permitted by the Board of Works by special request.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.03 NUISANCE; UNSAFE USE; PUBLIC/PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Use or discharge of consumer fireworks, special fireworks, or banned
fireworks can cause serious annoyance to citizens by loud, frequent or habitual
noise, and is declared to be a public nuisance. Except as noted in §
98.02, it is unlawful for any person to conduct such activities.
   (B)   The use of consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks
in an unsafe manner or in a way that results in littering on public and/or
private property is also considered a public nuisance.
   (C)   Except by specific permission granted under §
98.02(C), it shall be illegal to use consumer fireworks, special fireworks or
banned fireworks on public property or to use consumer fireworks, special
fireworks or banned fireworks in such a manner that it is reasonably likely
that remnants of the consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks
will land on, litter or otherwise end up on the following:
      (1)   Public property; or
      (2)   Private property, unless the private property owner has consented
and such act does not violate any other provision of this section.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 (“minor”) to ignite,
shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged any consumer
fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks within the limits of the city
without the direct supervision of the minor’s parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care, custody and control of the minor.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.05 LIABILITY FOR FIRE AND OTHER DAMAGE.
   Any person shall be liable for damage to person or property caused by the
use of consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks, and shall
also be liable for costs of fire service by a responding fire department or
other emergency services necessitated by the use or discharge of fireworks.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.06 LOCAL PERMIT TO SELL FIREWORKS.
   Absent compliance with the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful
to sell or otherwise distribute any fireworks and/or banned fireworks within
the city unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Retailer complies with all requirements of I.C. 22-11-14-4.5, 22-11-
14-7 and 22-11-14-11, including the obtaining of a valid certificate of
compliance;
   (B)   Retailer obtains a valid permit from the city. Such permits shall be
valid for one year. The city shall prepare application forms and establish the
process fee for obtaining the permit. A fee of $50 shall be collected to
reimburse the city for its administrative costs. As part of the application,
the retailer/property owner shall consent to inspection to the Police
Department and/or Fire Department to ensure the general health, safety and
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, any person
convicted of violating any provision under this chapter shall be subject to a
fine in an amount up to $25 for the first occurrence, $50 for the second
occurrence and $100 for the third occurrence.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
98.06 by not having a valid permit shall be punished by a fine in amount of
$1,000 per occurrence with each day of noncompliance being deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   An action to abate such nuisance or otherwise seek compliance with
this chapter may be brought as provided under state law. All legal costs,
including attorneys’ fees shall be added to any judgment award obtained by the
city.
(Ord. 15, 2008, passed 4-28-08)
CHAPTER 99: PROHIBITION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
99.01   Prohibited activity
   
99.02   Enforcement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following conduct shall be prohibited
within the city:
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“Products”), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one of more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR,I0aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimenthyI-3-2methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,
7, 10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c] chromem-1-o1, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoy)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale with the city; and
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“Products”) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 33-2010, passed 9-27-10)
§ 99.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney, to whom the Police
Department shall report any violation of the provision of this chapter, to
cause proceedings to commence against the person violating the provision of
this chapter and to prosecute to final termination.
(Ord. 33-2010, passed 9-27-10)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B Infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this chapter shall be in force by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter within the city shall be a Class B
Infraction and upon conviction shall be punishable by a judgment of up to
$1,000.
   (C)   The City Attorney is authorized to bring a civil action pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-6-4 to enjoin any person or business from violating this chapter.
(Ord. 33-2010, passed 9-27-10)
CHAPTER 100: FUNERAL PROTESTS
Section
   
100.01   Funeral protests
   
100.02   Enforcement
 
   
100.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Cemeteries, see
Chapter 92
§ 100.01 FUNERAL PROTESTS.
   (A)   Prohibited activity. Every citizen may freely speak, write and publish
the person’s sentiments on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of the
right, but no person shall picket or engage in other protest activities, nor
shall any association or corporation cause picketing or other protest
activities to occur within 300 feet of any residence, cemetery, funeral home,
church, synagogue, or other establishment during or within one hour before or
one hour after the conducting of any actual funeral or burial service at that
place.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   FUNERAL and BURIAL SERVICE. The ceremonies and memorial services
held in conjunction with the burial or cremation of the dead, but this section
does not apply to processions while they are in transit beyond any 300 foot
zone that is established in division (A) above.
      (2)   OTHER PROTEST ACTIVITIES. Any action that is disruptive or
undertaken to disrupt or disturb a funeral or burial service.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 5-13-13) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the City of Valparaiso Police
Department or the City Attorney’s Office.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 5-13-13)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4.
This chapter shall be in force by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter shall be a Class B infraction and upon
conviction shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.
   (C)   The Valparaiso City Attorney is authorized to bring a civil action
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4 to enjoin any person from violating this chapter.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 5-13-13)
CHAPTER 101: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
101.01   Purpose
   
101.02   Definitions
   
101.03   Compliance/registration of alarm systems required
   
101.04   Alarm system permit fees
   
101.05   Alarm system registration permits
   
101.06   False alarms
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the registration and
reasonable regulation of alarm systems within the city so as to protect the
public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. An audible or mechanical or electrical signal from a detection system
which indicates a disturbance of the detection system or some other activity
that summons law enforcement.
   ALARM SITE. The location where an alarm or alarm system is located.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any assembly of equipment which is designed or functions to provide
an audible or mechanical or electrical signal which indicates a disturbance or
some other activity that summons law enforcement or the Fire Department.
      (2)   An ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
         (a)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle;
         (b)   A smoke detector not connected to an automatic dialing device;
or
         (c)   An alarm system located in a private residence if the only
response upon activation of the alarm system is an external sounding alarm that
automatically stops within 15 minutes after activation.
   ALARM USER. Any individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
in ownership or control of an alarm system.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. Any device connected to an alarm system which
automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal to a selected
telephone number indicating the need for an emergency response.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL. An employee or employees of the Police
Department or Fire Protection Territory who routinely respond to a summons for
assistance when there is a reasonable belief that the need exists.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting an emergency response when the situation
does not require emergency services. For the purposes of this chapter, this
does not include alarms triggered by severe atmospheric conditions or other
circumstances not reasonably under the control of the alarm user, installer or
maintained If cancellation of the alarm occurs prior to emergency response
personnel's arrival at the alarm site, the response shall not be considered a
false alarm.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   REGISTRATION PERMIT. The permit issued by the Police Department or its
designee upon registration of each alarm system.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.03 COMPLIANCE/REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No alarm user shall operate an alarm system within the city unless
done in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No alarm user within the city shall own or operate an alarm system
after March 31, 2018, without registering each alarm system with the Police
Department or its designee. All alarm systems within the city shall be
registered with the Police Department or its designee on or before March 31,
2018. In all subsequent years, all alarm systems within the city shall be
annually registered with the Police Department or its designee before January
31 of each year.
   (B)   The registration with the Police Department shall be affected by
furnishing to the Police Department or its designee a complete and accurate
application upon forms prescribed by the Police Department setting forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of each person in possession
or control of the property;
      (2)   The street address of the property on which the Alarm System is
installed and operational;
      (3)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system
is installed and operational;
      (4)   The name of the person or business who installed the alarm system;
      (5)   The names and telephone numbers of two persons or of an alarm
system business which is able to and has agreed to:
         (a)   To receive notification at any time; and
         (b)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from emergency response personnel to do so; and
         (c)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the alarm
system if such becomes necessary.
   (C)   The registration application shall be signed by the alarm user. To the
extent permitted by law, all information contained in the application shall be
protected as confidential information; provided, however, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the use of such information for legitimate law
enforcement purposes and/or for administration or enforcement of this chapter
by the Police Department or its designee. After the receipt of the application
for a registration permit and payment of the permit fee, the Police Department
or its designee shall record the application data for use by emergency response
personnel.
   (D)   Whenever ownership or responsibility for operation of an alarm system
changes or a new alarm system is installed within the city, the new alarm user
shall have the responsibility to obtain a new registration permit within 30
days of the change in ownership/operation. Previously issued registration
permits shall automatically expire 30 days following transfer of ownership/
operation of an alarm system. Issuance of a registration permit is not evidence
that a alarm system meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Notification to the alarm user or his agent at the telephone number or
address shown on the registration application shall constitute sufficient
notice pursuant to any provision of this chapter. Registration of an alarm
system shall be evidenced by issuance of a registration permit.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.04 ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT FEES.
   There shall be a $25 registration fee assessed for each alarm system
registered after March 31, 2018. No registration fee shall be paid for all
alarm systems located within the city and registered with the Police Department
or its designee before March 31, 2018. In all subsequent years the above-
referenced registration fee shall be waived for all alarm systems located
within the city and registered with the Police Department or its designee
before January 31 of each year. The above-referenced registration fee shall be
also waived for all alarm users who registered their alarm systems within 30
days after the change in ownership/operation of installation of a new alarm
system.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.05 ALARM SYSTEM REGISTRATION PERMITS.
   For all registered alarm systems, the Police Department or its designee
shall issue a registration permit stating the date of the system's
registration. Each alarm user shall be responsible for continuously maintaining
a copy the registration permit for each alarm system. Each alarm user shall
provide the members of the Police Department with a copy of registration permit
upon request.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.06 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an alarm user to permit an
alarm system to emit more than two false alarms in any one calendar year.
Provided, however, this section shall not apply to an alarm system which emits
a false alarm within 30 days after the installation of the alarm system.
   (B)   An alarm user shall receive a written warning from the Police
Department or its designee following each of the first two false alarms emitted
by the alarm user's alarm system during one calendar year. If any alarm system
emits more than two false alarms in a calendar year, the alarm user shall
receive written notice of the user's violation of this chapter and be subject
to the penalties provided in this chapter.
   (C)   All alarm users shall be responsible for maintaining their alarm
systems in good working condition and in accordance with all applicable local,
state and federal regulations. It shall be a violation of this chapter for an
alarm user to fail to maintain their alarm system in good working condition and
in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   The Police Chief of the Police Department, or his/her designee, shall be
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter. The Police Department
may impose the following penalties on and all alarm users, individuals or
corporate entities found to be in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   For submitting any false or materially incomplete information on an
application or any other information submitted under this chapter, a fine of
$25, unless the violator has been fined for a previous violation for submitting
any other false or materially incomplete on an application or any other
information under this chapter, in which case the fine will be $100;
   (B)   For operation of an alarm system without first obtaining or continuing
to have a valid registration permit, a fine of $25 for each day the alarm user
is in violation, unless the violator has been fined for a previous violation
for operating an alarm system without obtaining or continuing to have a valid
registration permit, in which case the fine will be $100 for each day the alarm
user is in violation. Prior to imposing a fine against an alarm user for
failing to obtain or continuing to have a valid registration permit, the alarm
user shall be given ten days in which to obtain a valid registration permit;
   (C)   For failure to maintain an alarm system in good working condition, a
fine of $100 for each day the alarm user is in violation, unless the violator
has been fined for a previous violation for failing to maintain an alarm
system, in which case the fine will be $250 for each day the alarm user is in
violation;
   (D)   For violation of any other provision of this chapter, a fine of $100
for each day such violation exists.
   (E)   The following fines shall be assessed against alarm users who exceed
two false alarms in one calendar year:
      (1)   Third false alarm in a calendar year            $75
      (2)   Fourth false alarm in a calendar year            $100
      (3)   Fifth false alarm in a calendar year            $125
      (4)   Sixth and subsequent false alarms in calendar year      $250
   (F)   In addition to the civil penalties set forth above, the Police Chief,
or his/her designee, may request that the City Attorney's office take legal
action including, but not limited, filing a formal lawsuit against an alarm
user or other individual or corporate entity in order to obtain their
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 1-8-18)
CHAPTER 102: COLLECTION BOXES
Section
   
102.01   Definitions
   
102.02   Process, requirements, prohibitions
   
102.03   Collection box permit
   
102.04   Application for a permit
   
102.05   Requirements for permit
   
102.06   Term of permit and renewal of permit
 
   
102.99   Penalty
§ 102.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION BOX . Any container, receptacle, or similar device that is
located on any parcel or lot of record within the city and is used for
soliciting and/or collecting of clothing, household items, books or other
salvageable personal property. This term does not include recycle bins for the
collection of recyclable material, any rubbish or garbage receptacle or any
collection box located within an enclosed building.
   OPERATOR. A person who owns, operates or otherwise is in control of a
collection box to solicit collection of salvageable personal property.
   PROPERTY. A parcel or lot of record within the City of Valparaiso.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.02 PROCESS, REQUIREMENTS, PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person or legal entity shall place or maintain a collection box
within the City of Valparaiso unless the items collected are utilized for
charitable purposes. Should a question of whether items collected are being
used for a charitable purpose, the city's Board of Public Works and Safety
shall have jurisdiction to make such determination;
   (B)   No person or legal entity shall place or maintain a collection box on
any property open to the public except when issued a permit by the Building
Department;
   (C)   No person or legal entity shall place or maintain a collection box on
property of which they are not the legal owner or tenant, unless a notarized
affidavit signed by the property owner granting permission for the placement of
the collection box is submitted with the collection box permit application
("application"). For purposes of this section, the affidavit may be executed by
an individual who is an authorized officer, director, member or manager of the
property owner;
   (D)   The Building Commissioner is authorized to prepare and promulgate
forms concerning collection boxes including the application and affidavit;
   (E)   A collection box shall not be permitted on any property zoned or used
for residential purposes;
   (F)   A collection box shall not be permitted on any property that has been
closed or unoccupied for more than 30 days;
   (G)   A collection box shall not exceed six feet in height, six feet in
width and six feet in depth;
   (H)   A collection box shall not create a visual obstruction to vehicular
and pedestrian traffic;
   (I)   A collection box shall not be placed closer than ten feet to a paved
street, a driveway, a sidewalk, the nearest easement line, the nearest property
line, or the nearest right-of-way line as established by the city's official
Thoroughfare Plan;
   (J)   A collection box shall be located on the side or rear of the primary
structure on the property;
   (K)   A collection box shall not be placed in required parking spaces;
   (L)   A collection box shall not be placed on a vacant parcel of property;
   (M)   A collection box shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
circulation, nor be located in public rights-of-way, landscaped areas, drive
aisles, fire lanes, loading zones, or any other location that may cause
hazardous conditions, constitute a threat to the public safety, or create a
condition detrimental to surrounding land uses and developments; and,
   (N)   A collection box must be located on a hard, level surface and not
within 600 feet from any other collection box.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.03 COLLECTION BOX PERMIT.
   Before the placement of a collection box on any property, the operator shall
be required to apply for and obtain a collection box permit ("permit") from the
Building Department. A permit is required for each collection box. For any
collection box placed within the city prior to adoption of this section, an
application shall be filed on or before April 1, 2020. The Building
Commissioner shall take steps to notify the operators of all existing
collection boxes concerning the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.04 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT.
   Applications shall be signed by an individual who is an officer, director,
or member of the entity seeking a permit. An application shall contain the
following:
   (A)   The operator's name, address, email, phone number and a brief
description of how the collected items are used for a charitable purpose.
   (B)   Whether or not the applicant has previously received a permit for a
collection box in the city or currently operates a collection box.
   (C)   The name, address, email address and phone number of a contact person
accepting responsibility for all matters relating to a collection box.
   (D)   The physical address of the property where the collection box is
proposed to be located.
   (E)   A site plan showing the proposed location of the collection box,
dimensions of the collection box and all other requirements listed in §
102.05 of this chapter.
   (F)   Elevations showing appearance, materials, and dimensions of the
collection box.
   (G)   A notarized affidavit signed by the property owner (or its legal
designee) granting permission for the placement of the collection box on the
property owner's property;
   (H)   A nonrefundable application fee of $50.00 for each collection box.
   (I)   Any other requested information reasonably necessary for the Building
Commissioner to review the application and determine that the application is
consistent with this chapter.
   (J)   No permit fee shall be required for a collection box that is placed on
property owned by the operator, if the items collected are used for the
operator's specific benefit.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Maintenance standards. An operator shall operate and maintain all
collection boxes located in the city as follows:
      (1)   A collection box shall be metal or other appropriate material as
approved by the Building Department, and shall further be maintained in good
condition and appearance with no structural damage, holes or visible rust and
shall be free of graffiti;
      (2)   A collection box shall be locked or otherwise secured in such a
manner that the contents cannot be accessed by anyone other than those
responsible for the retrieval of the contents;
      (3)   A collection box shall have, at minimum, two-inch type visible from
the front of each collection box the name, address, website and phone number of
the operator. The collection box shall not have information, advertising or
logos other than those relating to the operator.
      (4)   A collection box shall be serviced and emptied at least every 14
days.
      (5)   No donated items or materials shall be left outside of the
collection box.
      (6)   The operator and/or property owner shall maintain the area
surrounding the collection box free from any junk, debris, overflow or other
material.
   (B)   Annual renewal. The operator must reapply for the collection box
permit on an annual basis. The renewal fee for each collection box shall be
$25.
   (C)   Size. Each collection box shall have a firmly closing lid and shall
have a capacity no greater than six cubic yards.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.06 TERM OF PERMIT AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on April 30
of each year regardless of when the permit was issued; however, permits issued
after March 1 of a given year shall be effective until April 30 of the
following year.
   (B)   A collection box permit shall be renewed annually. The application for
renewal must be filed not later than April 1 of the year the permit expires.
   (C)   A permit renewal fee shall be submitted with the application for
renewal.
   (D)   If the permit expires and is not renewed, the collection box must be
removed from the property within ten days after expiration of the permit.
   (E)   No permit shall be transferred, assigned or conveyed to another person
or legal entity.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
§ 102.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to obtain the
appropriate permit can lead to suspension or revocation of a collection box
permit. The property owner and operator shall be jointly and severally liable
for each violation and for payment of any penalty.
   (B)   All collection boxes existing within the city at the effective date of
this chapter shall apply for a permit on or before April 1, 2020. Any
collection box within the city that a permit has not been requested, shall be
subject to all remedies for violation as provided herein.
   (C)   In the event that a collection box is in violation of this chapter, a
$50 fine shall be applied, each day of noncompliance being considered a
separate violation of this chapter. Violation notices shall be sent to the
operator, at the address provided on the application, and the property owner at
the address that appears on the application and (if different) the address
listed by the Porter County Treasurer, as to where property tax bills are sent.
Absent the collection box being brought into conformity with this chapter
within 30 days of notice being sent, the city shall have the right to enter the
property for the limited purpose of removing the collection box. Any
salvageable items from the collection box shall be donated to a charity. Any
costs incurred by the city in the removing of the collection box shall become a
lien against the property and the city may avail itself of any legal remedy to
collect such costs, including any court costs and legal fees incurred.
(Ord. 31, 2019, passed 11-25-19; Am. Ord. 4, 2020, passed 3-30-20)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   AUCTIONS
   
111.   BOWLING AND BILLIARDS
   
112.   JUNK DEALERS
   
113.   MOBILE STORES
   
114.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
   
115.   AUTOMOBILE SALES
   
116.   TAXICAB OPERATIONS
   
117.   THEATERS
   
118.   POPCORN FESTIVAL AND OTHER CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES
   
119.   CABLE SERVICES
      
APPENDIX: CREDITS TO CUSTOMERS
CHAPTER 110: AUCTIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required; exceptions
   
110.02   License fee and issuance
   
110.03   Auctions prohibited on Sunday
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall hold or conduct any auction sale within the city
without first procuring a license to do so.
(‘89 Code, § 40.01)
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any person from
disposing of the goods, wares and merchandise of a business at auction sale if
the person has been engaged in the retail or wholesale business continuously
for a period of one year in the city immediately preceding the auction sales;
provided, however, that such a person shall be entitled to hold an auction sale
without license to do so only for a period of one week out of any year. After
an auction sale has been conducted for one week or any part of the week by the
person, all subsequent auction sales during that year must be licensed
according to division (A) above. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent any person from selling any and all goods, wares or merchandise which
are to be sold either at public auction or private sale, by virtue of any
lawful order of any court having jurisdiction of the subject matter of the
sale.
(‘89 Code, § 40.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEE AND ISSUANCE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to license under his or her hand, attested by
the Clerk-Treasurer under the seal of the city, any person to hold or conduct
an auction sale upon receipt of $50 for each and every day the auction sale is
held or conducted.
(‘89 Code, § 40.02)
§ 110.03 AUCTIONS PROHIBITED ON SUNDAY.
   No auction sale shall be conducted within the city on Sunday.
(‘89 Code, § 40.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 111: BOWLING AND BILLIARDS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   License fee; period
   
111.03   Time restrictions
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep for hire or gain within the city any billiard table,
pool table, pigeon hole table, bagatelle table, pin alley, nine or ten pin
alley, box alley or table, or any other ball table or ball alley game or
shooting gallery without first having obtained from the city a license to do
so.
(‘89 Code, § 41.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 LICENSE FEE; PERIOD.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license as above required shall pay a fee to the
Clerk-Treasurer as follows:
      (1)   For each billiard table, pool table, pigeon hole table, bagatelle
table, pin alley, box ball alley or table, or any other ball table or ball
alley game, a fee of $10 for the first table or alley and $5 for each table or
alley in addition thereto;
      (2)   For each shooting gallery, $25 for one year; or if issued for a
lesser period than one year, $5 per week or fraction thereof;
(‘89 Code, § 41.02)
   (B)   No license shall be granted for a shorter period than one year except
for shooting galleries.
(‘89 Code, § 40.03)
§ 111.03 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall keep or operate any billiard, pool, bagatelle or pigeon hole
table, or any box ball alley or table under a license issued by the city, or
permit any person in the room in which the table or alley is kept or operated
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(‘89 Code, § 41.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   License required for house to house collections
   
112.02   License fee; issuance; transfer prohibited
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTIONS.
   No person shall go from house to house in the city and purchase old iron,
rags, shoes, boots, or rubber without first having obtained a license to do so
from the city.
(‘89 Code, § 43.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE; TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The fee for the license shall be $5 per week or $50 per year.
(‘89 Code, § 43.02)
   (B)   Upon payment to the Clerk-Treasurer by an applicant of the license fee
provided in division (A) above, the Clerk-Treasurer may make out and deliver to
the applicant a license signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer,
and sealed with the corporate seal of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 43.03)
   (C)   No license granted under this chapter shall be transferred.
(‘89 Code, § 43.04)
CHAPTER 113: MOBILE STORES
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Requirements for issuance of license
   
113.03   License fee; transfer prohibited
   
113.04   Operators to stay in vehicle
   
113.05   Application of other relevant laws
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who owns or operates any completely self-contained mobile unit
upon the streets of the city, which unit shall be in the nature of a store,
market or shop in which the articles are stored, processed or serviced and from
which the articles are sold and/or services are rendered, shall obtain a
license for the operation from the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 44.01)
§ 113.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The owner or operator shall procure all licenses, permits and approvals
required by law, and liability insurance complying with financial
responsibility laws, including, but not in limitation thereof, a state store
license and Fire Chief approval, before applying for a license.
(‘89 Code, § 44.02)
§ 113.03 LICENSE FEE; TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The fee for a mobile sales license shall be $5 per week or $50 per
year.
(‘89 Code, § 44.05)
   (B)   No license granted under this section shall be transferred.
(‘89 Code, § 44.06)
§ 113.04 OPERATORS TO STAY IN VEHICLE.
   In the operation of the unit, the owner or operator and his or her employees
shall remain within the unit while conducting business and shall not leave the
same for the purpose of soliciting business.
(‘89 Code, § 44.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.05 APPLICATION OF OTHER RELEVANT LAWS.
   The issuing of any license shall not be deemed to be permission to the owner
or operator to violate any other ordinance of this city in the operation of the
unit, nor shall the issuing of any license hereunder stop the city from
enforcing its Zoning Ordinance in the event that the unit shall be operated in
a manner that is in violation of any provision thereof.
(‘89 Code, § 44.04)
CHAPTER 114: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Exemptions
   
114.04   Waiver
   
114.05   License requirement
   
114.06   Application; contents
   
114.07   Fees required
   
114.08   License issuance; contents and application
   
114.09   Restrictions on merchants and vendors
   
114.10   Regulation of merchants and vendors
   
114.11   Records
   
114.12   Permitted hours of solicitation
   
114.13   Street vending
   
114.14   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
114.15   Violations
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of regulating all transient or
itinerant merchants, commercial solicitors, peddlers and hawkers by requiring
licenses to engage in the activities in order to prevent fraud, crime, undue
annoyance and harassment and to protect the privacy, safety, health and welfare
of the citizens of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 45.01)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARENT ORGANIZATION. The person, firm, corporation, proprietorship or
partnership that the vendor is representing and/or is employed by. This
definition includes the principal manufacturer and distributor of goods and the
primary supplier of services being sold or offered.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR/ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person traveling by foot, wagon,
automobile or other type of conveyance within the city from place to place,
residence to residence, or street to street for the sale of goods, wares,
personal property or other merchandise or services for immediate or future
delivery, whether or not the vendor carries or presents the samples for sale.
(‘89 Code, § 45.02)
§ 114.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Members of religious or church organizations or nonprofit
organizations are exempt from this chapter provided that they are pursuing
legitimate religious activities, and provided that the activities are conducted
in an orderly manner without annoyance or harassment to the persons solicited.
   (B)   Parochial, private or public school children attending school within
the city, or members of a fraternal or veterans organization or a nonprofit
organization, so long as that organization operates a chapter, post lodge, camp
or local organization within the city are exempt from this chapter only to the
extent that they vend or solicit in conjunction with an authorized activity of
the organization of which they are members or the schools they attend.
(‘89 Code, § 45.03)
§ 114.04 WAIVER.
   The Board of Works, upon written request and adequate proof that the
transient vendor or itinerant merchant is involved in a charity or a
charitable-type business operation, may waive requirements of this chapter or
any portion thereof. Parties aggrieved by the failure of the Board of Works to
so waive must appeal the decision of the Board of Works pursuant to §
114.08(A)(4).
(‘89 Code, § 45.04)
§ 114.05 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   It will be unlawful for any person within the jurisdiction of this chapter
to act as a peddler, vendor or solicitor, as defined herein, without first
obtaining a license therefore from the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 45.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.06 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   An Application for vending or soliciting may be obtained from the City
Clerk-Treasurer and upon completion, be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer with
the appropriate processing fee. The application for an itinerant merchant’s
license shall include the following information:
   (A)   Personal information shall be provided by the applicant including date
of birth, driver’s license number, state identification or military
identification, a copy of the individual’s birth certificate, permanent and
local address and telephone number and a physical description including height,
weight, color of hair and eyes;
   (B)   The name(s) of the corporation(s), firm(s) or person(s) which the
applicant proposes to represent and the name(s) of the person(s) managing or
supervising the solicitors; the local and permanent addresses of the
aforementioned person(s); and the telephone numbers at which the person(s) can
be reached. Also include shall be where and when the parent organization was
established or incorporated;
   (C)   The applicant must supply credentials from the parent organization for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as a representative;
   (D)   Copies of any state or county licenses which are also required to
operate or conduct activities proposed by the applicant must be attached to the
application;
   (E)   A description of the merchandise or services offered for sale;
   (F)   Information as to whether the parent organization or the solicitor/
itinerant merchant has ever been enjoined from soliciting;
   (G)   Information as to whether the solicitor or parent organization named
in the application has been convicted of a crime, the misdemeanor or violation
of any municipal ordinance involving moral turpitude, (an example of these
crimes being theft, burglary, robbery, fraud, deceit or any crime of violence)
and if so, a brief explanation;
   (H)   The names and identification information of all individuals who will
be working for the applicant within the area. The identification information
for these individuals shall include names, local and permanent addresses and
phone numbers and a physical description including height, weight, hair and eye
colors. Each of the individuals listed in this section are required to obtain a
license application and submit it along with the application processing fee
subject to investigation and approval or denial;
   (I)   A photograph of the applicant who will sell or solicit is required and
must have been taken within 60 days immediately prior to the date of the filing
of the application, which picture shall be two inches by two inches, showing
the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
and
   (J)   The applicant shall sign a disclaimer of city liability relating to
any action cause or charged against the applicant. All individuals soliciting
or selling door-to-door or business-to-business must fill out applications for
their individual license. The same application information as above must be
completed and returned to the Clerk-Treasurer whereupon an investigation of the
individual will occur. A decision will be rendered in relation to the
information provided on the individual’s application. However, no permit shall
be issued until a processing period of five working days has elapsed.
(‘89 Code, § 45.06)
§ 114.07 FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of filing the application, each individual applicant who
will be soliciting shall pay a non-refundable application fee of $15 to the
Clerk-Treasurer to cover costs in the administration of this chapter. The
application fee must be paid with cash or certified funds.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police or his or her designee, after investigating the
application, grants a license, each individual applicant who will be soliciting
shall then obtain a license from the Clerk-Treasurer. Each applicant must pay
the fee at the time the license is issued. The license fee must be paid with
cash or certified funds. The fees for the above-stated license shall be as
follows:
      (1)   A $200 fee per year;
      (2)   A $120 fee every six months;
      (3)   A $50 fee per month; or
      (4)   A $25 fee per day.
(‘89 Code, § 45.07)
§ 114.08 LICENSE ISSUANCE; CONTENTS AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   If as a result of the investigation of the individual’s
application, the applicant character and business responsibility are found to
be unsatisfactory by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, the
application shall be denied and a license shall not be issued. If, as a result
of the investigation, the applicant’s character and business reputation appear
to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall allow the Clerk-Treasurer to
issue the requested permit.
      (2)   A license shall not be issued to any applicant where any of the
following has been determined during the initial investigation and review of
the application:
         (a)   If the applicant has been convicted of a crime.
         (b)   Any previous history relating to the manner in which the
applicant made door-to-door sales which resulted in a violation of law.
         (c)   Providing false information on the application form.
         (d)   A failure to comply with any condition, standard or requirement
of this chapter or any city, county or state regulation.
      (3)   If an applicant is denied a permit, written notice of denial and
the reasons therefore upon request shall be given to the applicant when the
individual returns to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office seeking the decision
regarding the application.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to approve or deny any
application for a license to be issued under this chapter. Any application
which is denied by the Chief of Police may be appealed to the City Council. The
City Council may accept or reject the decision of the Police Division. All
appeals must be made by submitting a formal request of an appeal to the Clerk-
Treasurer, together with a $50 non-refundable processing fee.
(‘89 Code, § 45.09)
   (B)   The license shall bear the number of the license, the date it is
issued, the name and address of the parent organization, if any, and the name,
address and photograph of the itinerant merchant, the expiration date of the
permit and a statement that the license does not constitute an endorsement by
the city of the purpose or products involved or of the persons or of the parent
organization conducting the solicitation. Licenses shall be signed by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 45.10)
   (C)   All licenses hereunder shall expire in accordance with the license fee
schedule of
114.07(B).
(‘89 Code, § 45.08)
§ 114.09 RESTRICTIONS ON MERCHANTS AND VENDORS.
   (A)   While carrying on solicitations, an itinerant merchant shall display
the license issued under this chapter so that it shall be visible to any person
dealing with the itinerant merchant.
   (B)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be non-transferable and
may not be given to any other individual for the purpose of soliciting.
   (C)   No person shall represent that a granting of a license under this
chapter is an endorsement by the city and any representation of this kind is
hereby declared to be a misrepresentation of fact, a violation of this chapter
and subject to revocation of the license.
   (D)   Licenses issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk-
Treasurer after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the course
of carrying on business as an itinerant merchant;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any felony, crime or misdemeanor; and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of an itinerant merchant in an unlawful
manner or in a manner so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
   (E)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date
set for hearing.
(‘89 Code, § 45.11)
§ 114.10 REGULATION OF MERCHANTS AND VENDORS.
   (A)   Once a license has been issued, an itinerant merchant must report any
material changes of information previously provided in the application to the
Clerk-Treasurer within seven calendar days.
   (B)   No itinerant merchant may remain on private property after the lawful
occupant of the premises directs the merchant to leave the premises.
   (C)   An itinerant merchant shall not, without permission, accost, interfere
with or touch any member of the public in any manner, nor shall the merchant
interfere with traffic.
   (D)   A license under this chapter shall not be used or represented in any
manner as an endorsement by the city or by any department, officer or employee
thereof.
   (E)   No fraudulent or misleading representations to any person shall be
made in connection with any sale or solicitation, including but not limited to
any misleading representation concerning the true product or service involved,
the name of the itinerant merchant, the trade name and the nature of the parent
organization.
   (F)   Unless invited by the lawful occupant, an itinerant merchant may not
sell or solicit door-to-door where “No Solicitors,” “No Trespassing,” or other
similar notice is posted.
(‘89 Code, § 45.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.11 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the application, the
determination thereon and of all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter. The
record shall contain the name and residence of the individual licensed and the
amount of licenses that have been revoked.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall submit a copy of this record to the Chief of
Police.
   (C)   When an itinerant merchant obtains a conviction for violating this
chapter, the Chief of Police shall report the same to the Clerk-Treasurer, and
the Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record for each permit issued and reports
of violations.
(‘89 Code, § 45.13)
§ 114.12 PERMITTED HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   Itinerant merchants may operate only from 9:00 a.m. until sunset, Monday
though Saturday.
(‘89 Code, § 45.14)
§ 114.13 STREET VENDING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERMANENT BUSINESS. A business which is established within any building
for a period of time exceeding 30 days;
      UNOBSTRUCTED CORNER. A triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points 25 feet from the intersection of the
street lines or, in the case of a rounded property corner, from the
intersection of the street property lines when extended.
   (B)   If the business of the applicant is to be carried on by selling goods,
wares and merchandise on or from a city sidewalk, the following provisions
shall be complied with in addition to the other provisions contained in this
chapter:
      (1)   No more than one transient vendor or itinerant merchant shall
occupy each side of a city block;
      (2)   No transient vendor or itinerant merchant shall offer for sale his
or her goods, wares and merchandise wherein 70% of the product is in direct
competition with a business within 100 feet of the location wherein the product
is being offered for sale or display.
      (3)   There shall be a five-foot setback from the curb of a street
wherein no merchandise, goods or wares shall be displayed or sold or within
which no transient vendor or itinerant merchant may stand or sell the goods,
wares or merchandise;
      (4)   There shall be a triangular area of each corner where two city
streets intersect wherein no wares or merchandise shall be sold or displayed;
and
      (5)   Street vendors must provide receptacles for waste disposal and
shall not obstruct storefronts or entrances thereto.
(‘89 Code, § 45.15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.14 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No transient vendor or itinerant merchant under this chapter, nor anyone on
his or her behalf shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use
any other sound device including, but not limited to, any loud speaking radio
or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public
places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of
sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly
heard on the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or at other public places for
the purposes of attracting attention to the goods, wares or merchandise which
the transient vendor or itinerant merchant proposes to sell.
(‘89 Code, § 45.16)
§ 114.15 VIOLATIONS.
   All violations of this chapter shall be misdemeanors, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable by a fine. If the itinerant merchant is convicted
and fails to pay the fine, the right to solicit or sell merchandise or services
door-to-door will automatically terminate.
(‘89 Code, § 45.18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 115: AUTOMOBILE SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Off-premises sales of motor vehicles
   
115.03   Violations
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEALER. A person licensed to engage in the business of buying or selling
motor vehicles.
   ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS. A permanent enclosed building or structure
owned or leased for the purpose of bartering, trading and selling motor
vehicles. The term ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS does not include any
residence, tent, temporary stand or permanent quarters temporarily occupied.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle, other than a semitrailer, for
which the owner would be required to obtain a certificate of title pursuant to
I.C. 9-17-2-1 et seq.
   TEMPORARY LOCATION. A site, other than an established place of business, at
which a dealer exhibits for sale more than six motor vehicles.
(‘89 Code, § 45.20)
§ 115.02 OFF-PREMISES SALES OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No dealer may sell or exhibit for sale any motor vehicle at any temporary
location within the city unless the dealer has an established place of business
located in the city.
(‘89 Code, § 45.19)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any dealer who violates the prohibition of §
115.02 shall be subject to a fine for each day the dealer is in violation of
the section.
(‘89 Code, § 45.21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 116: TAXICAB OPERATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   License application
   
116.04   License fee; notification of termination of taxicab service and
performance bond; transfer prohibited
   
116.05   Persons ineligible for license
   
116.06   Number of cabs required for license
   
116.07   No limit on licenses
   
116.08   License suspension and revocation
   
116.09   Safety check required
   
116.10   Passenger limitations
   
116.11   Exterior identification required
   
116.12   Insurance required
   
116.13   Character references for drivers
   
116.14   Display of photograph required
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB.  Any motor vehicle used or carrying passengers for hire within the
limits of the city to destinations designated by the passenger, and not on
regular routes.
   TAXICAB SERVICE. The business or occupation of operating taxicabs and
furnishing taxicab service to the public.
(‘89 Code, § 46.01)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business or occupation of operating a taxicab
service, or shall operate, propel or cause to be operated or propelled any
taxicab on or along any of the avenues, streets or alleys within the city until
he or she shall have obtained a license signed by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 46.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person operating a taxicab service shall submit the name under which the
business shall be carried on at the time of application for a license, and must
operate under the name only. The applicant must be the bonafide owner of each
vehicle for which he or she applies for a taxicab license, and the name of the
applicant owning and operating the vehicle shall be registered with the Clerk-
Treasurer together with the automobile license number, description, make and
model of the vehicle and the record of inspections. This record shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(‘89 Code, § 46.03)
§ 116.04 LICENSE FEE; NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OF TAXICAB SERVICE AND
PERFORMANCE BOND; TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The initial license fee for each person, desiring to qualify and be
licensed to operate a taxicab service shall be $6 to be paid upon the granting
of the license. Thereafter, $6 per quarter shall be paid in advance on the
first day of the next following months of January, April, July and October of
each year. No refund shall be allowed for any unexpired part of any license fee
for operating a taxicab service or for operating any taxicab.
   (B)   In order that the Common Council or the Mayor shall receive reasonable
and proper notice in writing of the termination of a taxicab service at least
60 days prior to the actual termination thereof, the owner or owners or holder
of the license shall, at the time of application for a taxicab license, execute
a good and sufficient bond to the city in the amount of $5,000. The bond shall,
by its terms and conditions, directly inure to the benefit of the city in the
event that the licensee fails to give reasonable and proper notice of
termination of taxicab service as herein provided. The bond shall provide that
the bonding company or surety shall manage, operate, or otherwise provide the
management of the taxicab service for a period of 60 days after the actual
notification date of termination of service in the event that the taxicab
service company is unable to continue in operation for that 60-day period.
   (C)   The bond shall be executed only for the purpose of assuring the timely
notice of termination of a taxicab service or firm, and neither the existence
nor the payment thereof nor the operation of the service by the bonding company
or surety shall obligate the city, the surety or sureties, or the taxicab
owner, owners, or licensee, their agents and assigns, to make any payment to
any person for any other reason.
   (D)   Any suit or action against the surety or sureties on the bond shall be
brought after the filing of a verified statement of failure of proper notice of
termination, and shall be commended within 60 days of the date of the actual
termination of the taxicab service.
(‘89 Code, § 46.04)
   (E)   No license shall be transferred from one taxicab to another or from
one person to another.
(‘89 Code, § 46.05)
§ 116.05 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license to engage in the business or occupation of operating a taxicab
service or of operating a taxicab shall be issued to or held by anyone who is
not a person of good character or who has been convicted of a felony, or who
shall be in violation of any zoning ordinance or regulation of the city in the
operation of his or her taxicab service or taxicab; nor shall any license be
issued to or held by any group of persons, firm or corporation if any member of
the group or firm, or any officer, director or stockholder of the corporation
is ineligible for a license under the provisions of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 46.06)
§ 116.06 NUMBER OF CABS REQUIRED FOR LICENSE.
   No person shall be qualified and licensed to operate a taxicab service
unless he or she presents a minimum of three taxicabs for licensing at the time
of initial licensing and each quarter thereafter.
(‘89 Code, § 46.07)
§ 116.07 NO LIMIT ON LICENSES.
   There shall be no limit on the number of persons to which a license to
operate a taxicab service may be issued and no limit to the number of taxicabs
for which any person may obtain licenses so long as the provisions of this
chapter are complied with.
(‘89 Code, § 46.08)
§ 116.08 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor in the event the taxicab is found not to be in a safe and clean condition
and not in compliance with inspection requirements and the terms of this
chapter. The Mayor shall have the further right, privilege and power to revoke
all the permits owned by any person operating one or more cabs in violation of
the terms of this chapter where one or more of that person’s taxicabs fail to
meet the requirements of this chapter.
(‘89 Code, § 46.09)
§ 116.09 SAFETY CHECK REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of the presentation of an application for a license, or at
the time of renewal of a permit, a thorough and complete check and inspection
shall be made of each taxicab by authorized agencies of the city to determine
if each taxicab is in safe condition for the transportation of passengers.
Accompanying the application shall be a certificate signed by the proper city
authorities indicating that an inspection had been made of the vehicle for
which a license is requested and that the vehicle is in a safe condition and
suitable for use as a public conveyance.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall not issue a permit either originally or as a
renewal unless the certificate is presented with the application. The
certificate shall at all times be prominently displayed in each taxicab.
(‘89 Code, § 46.10)
§ 116.10 PASSENGER LIMITATIONS.
   No taxicab shall at any time carry more than five passengers in addition to
the driver thereof.
(‘89 Code, § 46.11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.11 EXTERIOR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Each taxicab operated by a person pursuant to this chapter must be painted
the same color and in the same design, and shall have the name of the company
painted on both sides of the exterior of the body in letters of suitable size
so that the name can be read and the taxicab readily identified when in motion.
(‘89 Code, § 46.12)
§ 116.12 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a taxicab in the city unless he or she has
placed on file with the Clerk- Treasurer, prior to the issuance of a license, a
policy of insurance in full force and effect, issued by a responsible and
reputable company authorized to do business in the state, insuring the operator
and driver against personal liability to the extent of $15,000 for injury or
death to any one person, $30,000 for one accident, and $5,000 property damage.
   (B)   The policy of insurance must remain in full force and effect at all
times and shall be retained by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 46.13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.13 CHARACTER REFERENCES FOR DRIVERS.
   No taxicab shall, at any time, be operated by any driver until there shall
have been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer a written character reference stating
that he or she is of good moral character, which reference shall be signed by
two or more reputable residents of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 46.14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.14 DISPLAY OF PHOTOGRAPH REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall be operated at any time unless a photograph of the driver
operating the taxicab is prominently displayed so as to be visible to all
passengers riding in the taxicab, under which photograph shall be printed the
driver’s name, address and the name of the owner of the taxicab.
(‘89 Code, § 46.15)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 117: THEATERS
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   License application
   
117.04   License fee; period
   
117.05   Violations
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANCE HALL. Any public room or place where any person or persons engage in
dancing either for their own entertainment or for exhibition purposes.
(‘89 Code, § 47.06)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Each building, room or hall within the city used for plays, theaters, shows
or exhibitions for public entertainment, at which an admittance fee is charged,
and every skating rink or dance hall shall be licensed according to the
provisions of this chapter. However, §§
117.03 through
117.05 shall not apply to any church or school building within the city.
(‘89 Code, § 47.01)
§ 117.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The owner, manager or lessee of any building, hall or room, in order to
obtain a license thereon, shall pay the required license fee and present a
particular description in writing of the building, hall or room to the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the Clerk-Treasurer may then issue to the applicant a license.
The license shall contain a particular description of the building, hall or
room on which it is granted, and the starting and expiration of the license.
The license shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 47.02)
§ 117.04 LICENSE FEE; PERIOD.
   (A)   The license fee for each skating rink, or for each building, hall or
room in the city wherein any play, theater, show or exhibition is given shall
be $25 per year. The license fee for a dance hall shall be $50 per year.
(‘89 Code, § 47.03)
   (B)   No license issued under this chapter shall be granted for a shorter
period than one year.
(‘89 Code, § 47.04)
§ 117.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person owning, managing or controlling any dance hall or skating
rink shall use the same or permit the same to be used for dancing or skating,
respectively, without a license.
   (B)   No person owning, managing or controlling any building, hall or room
shall use the same or permit the same to be used for any play, theater, show or
exhibition without a license.
(‘89 Code, § 47.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 118: POPCORN FESTIVAL AND OTHER CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES
Section
   
118.01   Temporary activities
   
118.02   General area permits
   
118.03   Superceding effect
§ 118.01 TEMPORARY ACTIVITIES.
   The City Board of Public Works and Safety, upon written request, may issue
temporary licenses pursuant to this chapter to charitable, nonprofit and
similar organizations, authorizing the organizations to sell and otherwise
distribute goods, wares and merchandise on public property, and may further
issue the temporary permits without cost to the applicant for the conducting of
the activities.
(‘89 Code, § 48.01)
§ 118.02 GENERAL AREA PERMITS.
   Any organization, association, corporation or other entity receiving a
permit pursuant to this section shall be authorized to control the operation of
all activities in the area included in their permit and during the time that
their permit is in effect. The control shall include, but not be limited to,
the right to temporarily designate no parking, rerouting, traffic and other
crowd control activities subject to public safety requirements.
(‘89 Code, § 48.02)
§ 118.03 SUPERCEDING EFFECT.
   This section shall supercede any other portion of this code should any
conflict exist.
(‘89 Code, § 48.03)
CHAPTER 119: CABLE SERVICES
Section
   
119.01   Applicability
   
119.02   Customer services plan
   
119.03   Customer service standards
   
119.04   Subscriber complaints
   
119.05   Outages and service interruptions
   
119.06   Pre-construction information
   
119.07   Solicitation of customers by the grantee
   
119.08   Requests for installation
   
119.09   Program guides
   
119.10   Employee identification
   
119.11   Nondiscrimination
   
119.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Credits to Customers
§ 119.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall supersede any contradictory or
inconsistent provision in federal, state or local law, or in an initial or
renewal franchise agreement. Any provision in federal, state or local law, or
in an initial or renewal franchise agreement, that imposes a higher obligation
or requirement on the grantee than is imposed by this chapter, or that imposes
an obligation or requirement on the grantee not imposed by this chapter, shall
not be deemed to be contradictory or inconsistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Unless superseded by this chapter, a grantee shall comply with the FCC
Customer service obligations, 47 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 76.309, as amended.
§ 119.02 CUSTOMER SERVICES PLAN.
   A grantee shall submit to the Cable Commission a detailed Customer Services
Plan 60 days prior to commencement of service to its first subscriber, and
shall update the Plan as necessary to keep it accurate and complete. Such Plan
shall, at a minimum, demonstrate that the facilities, personnel, repair,
complaint and adjustment procedures, telephone and other information systems of
the grantee are sufficient to ensure timely, efficient and effective services
to customers. The grantee’s Customer Services Plan shall also be consistent
with the highest standards of the cable television industry and the
requirements set forth in this chapter.
§ 119.03 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Cable system customer service/call center hours and telephone
availability.
      (1)   For purposes of this chapter, the term NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS shall
mean those hours during which most similar businesses in the community are open
to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must include some
evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend hours.
      (2)   A grantee shall establish and maintain such business offices and
customer service/call centers and provide personnel, telephone service and
other equipment, as needed, to ensure timely, efficient and effective service
to customers. Such personnel shall include one person designated by the grantee
to act as a liaison between the grantee and the City regarding customer service
issues. All customer service/call centers of the grantee shall have a locally
listed, toll-free or collect telephone number with an access line available to
subscribers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Trained company representatives
will be available to respond to customer telephone inquiries 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.
      (3)   The grantee’s customer service/call center and bill payment
locations will be open at least during normal business hours and will be
located within the city. The grantee’s business offices shall be open, at a
minimum, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. for six days a week. Upon a showing of
changed circumstances or for other good cause shown, the Cable Commission may
permit a reduction in the grantee’s business office hours, and such permission
shall not be unreasonably withheld. Additionally, at various times during the
day, the grantee shall cablecast the address, telephone number and office hours
of its business offices, customer service/call centers and bill payment
locations on a local origination channel received by all subscribers.
   (B)   Telephone answer time.
      (1)   Normal operating conditions. For purposes of this section, the term
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS shall mean those service conditions which are
within the control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters,
civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or
unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the
control of the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions,
pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods,
and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
      (2)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
      (3)   The grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless the Cable Administrator determines that a sufficient record of
complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
      (4)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
   (C)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four standards will be met no less than 95%
of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed. “Standard” installations are those that are
located up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system.
      (2)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a three-hour time block between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
six days a week. The grantee may schedule service calls and other installation
activities outside of the above days and hours for the express convenience of
the customer.
      (3)   The grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
      (4)   If a grantee representative is running late for an appointment with
a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
for the specific day and time requested by the customer. The customer may
request that the appointment take place anytime between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday.
   (D)   Communications between grantees and cable subscribers.
      (1)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         (a)   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
         (b)   The return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if service
is terminated.
      (2)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer’s next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
§ 119.04 SUBSCRIBER COMPLAINTS.
   The grantee shall promptly respond to and resolve all subscriber complaints.
The grantee shall maintain records of such complaints setting forth the date
and nature of the complaint and any action taken in response thereto. Such
records shall be available to the City during the grantee’s normal business
hours and retained in the grantee’s files for not less than three years. A
statistical summary of such records shall be prepared by the grantee and
submitted to the Cable Commission on a monthly basis for the life of the
franchise. Complaints will be broken out by type of service that is the subject
of the complaint, and by franchise area of the city.
§ 119.05 OUTAGES AND SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUNDLED SERVICES. Cable television service provided to a subscriber in
conjunction with one or more cable and/or telecommunication-related services,
including but not limited to cable modem and telephone service.
      OUTAGE. A service interruption affecting three or more subscribers of the
grantee. The term OUTAGE shall include loss of service of cable television,
telephone, or cable modem, or any combination thereof.
      SERVICE INTERRUPTION or INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one
or more cable television channels.
   (B)   Recordkeeping. The grantee shall maintain records of all service
interruptions. Such records shall indicate the type of service interrupted
(such as cable television, telephone, or cable modem), estimated number of
subscribers affected, the date and time of first notification of the
interruption, the date and time service was restored, the cause of the
interruption and a description of the corrective action taken. Such records
shall be available to the City during the grantee’s normal business hours and
retained in the grantee’s files for not less than three years. Such records
shall be submitted to the cable administrator on a monthly basis, commencing 12
months after service is provided to the first subscriber. The grantee shall
provide such records in paper documentary form, as well as in such electronic
forms and formats as the Cable Administrator may require. The cable
administrator shall provide service interruption information, as appropriate,
to federal and/or state regulatory authorities.
   (C)   Response time. Excluding conditions beyond the control of the grantee,
the grantee will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no
event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee
must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business day
after notification of the service problem.
   (D)   Customer credits. The grantee shall provide a credit or, in the case
of a customer terminating service, a refund, to each customer of the grantee
subject to a service interruption. The credit or refund shall be for the entire
day on which the interruption occurs and for each additional day the
interruption continues. The credit or refund shall apply to all services
interrupted by the interruption. The grantee shall provide such credit or
refund regardless of whether the customer requests a credit or refund or
otherwise contacts the grantee. The grantee shall provide each such credit or
refund pursuant to the schedule required by §
119.03(D).
§ 119.06 PRE-CONSTRUCTION INFORMATION.
   Prior to commencement of construction of an area, the grantee shall exercise
its best efforts to inform the residents thereof of the nature and timetable
for such construction and shall provide the residents with the procedures for
filing complaints. The information and materials required by this section shall
also be available in the Spanish language.
§ 119.07 SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS BY THE GRANTEE.
   At the time the grantee solicits the residents of an area for subscription
of cable television services, and again upon actual installation of service,
the grantee shall provide such residents a simple written explanation of all
products and services offered, the options for and prices of such products and
services, the parental lock-out device, installation and service maintenance
procedures, cable television services use instructions, programming channel
positions, billing, late fee and complaint procedures and privacy rights of the
subscriber. The information and materials required by this section shall also
be available in the Spanish language.
§ 119.08 REQUESTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   The grantee shall fill all reasonable orders for a standard installation of
its services within seven business days and all other reasonable orders within
30 days after the date of such order. For purposes of the time period for
installation as opposed to any costs charged, “standard” installations are
those that are located up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system. A
request shall be deemed reasonable if (i) the services requested are uniformly
available on the grantee’s cable television system; (ii) the services are
requested in a portion of the franchise area where the grantee’s cable
television system has been constructed and activated; (iii) the grantee in
cooperation with appropriate agencies can accomplish a proper physical
extension of its cable television system to a person’s premises within such
seven or 30 days; and (iv) the grantee can obtain access to a person’s
premises. If the grantee fails within such seven- or 30-day period to provide
the service requested, the grantee, upon request of the person requesting
service, shall within 30 days thereafter promptly refund any and all deposits
or advance payments made by such person. The grantee shall maintain a record of
all installation requests detailing when and what action was taken.
§ 119.09 PROGRAM GUIDES.
   In the event the grantee or an agent of the grantee provides to the
grantee’s subscribers program guides, such guides shall list, at a minimum, all
non-must carry channels carried on the grantee’s cable television system and
shall, to the extent reasonable as determined by the grantee, list all programs
carried on all non-must carry channels.
§ 119.10 EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION.
   Each employee of the grantee when entering private property or working on
public ways shall be required to wear an employee identification card issued by
the grantee bearing the name and a photograph of said employee.
§ 119.11 NONDISCRIMINATION.
   The grantee shall not discriminate against any person in the solicitation or
provision of any service or equipment on the basis of age, sex, race, color,
creed, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, marital status or physical or mental
impairment.
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies provided for in this chapter or
otherwise available by law, the commission or the cable administrator shall
have the power to impose monetary penalties in the event a grantee violates any
provision of this chapter or other provision of the municipal code, a
franchise, or any rule or regulation lawfully adopted thereunder. The amounts
of such penalties shall be specified in division (E) of this section and in the
franchise and shall be based on the following principles.
      (1)   Penalties shall exceed the financial benefits to a grantee delaying
or failing to comply with the applicable requirement;
      (2)   Even where such benefits are not easily discernible, the penalties
shall be high enough to have a significant deterrent effect on a grantee; and
      (3)   Penalties shall be sufficient to protect the city, and other
affected parties against loss of revenues resulting from violations.
   (B)   A franchise shall also provide for fines, liquidated damages and other
monetary sanctions, the amounts of which shall also reflect the foregoing
principles.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or organization adversely affected by a violation, or
by a pattern and practice of violations, shall have the right to sue a grantee
in a court of competent jurisdiction for damages and for injunctive and other
relief to require enforcement of the franchise. Organizations shall be entitled
to sue on behalf of themselves or their members.
      (2)   The remedy herein provided shall be in addition to any remedies
provided by law.
      (3)   Except in emergency situations in which immediate relief is
required, private litigants shall notify the corporation counsel not fewer than
ten days prior to filing suit. However, suit by the city shall not preempt the
private litigant’s right to proceed.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or affix, or to cause to
be attached or affixed, any equipment or device which allows access to or use
of the cable television system without payment to the grantee for same.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who violates any
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750 for
each offense; each day of said violation shall constitute a separate offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed to be committed as to each affected
customer. In addition, a grantee shall be subject to the schedule of credits to
customers set forth in the Appendix.
   (F)   Upon the cable commission’s or cable administrator’s transmittal of a
notice of violation to the department of administrative hearings, the
department of administrative hearings shall adjudicate the notice of violation.
APPENDIX: CREDITS TO CUSTOMERS
Standards of Customer Service Minimum Compensation for Noncompliance
Standards of Customer Service                                                    Minimum Compensation for Noncompliance
Responsiveness
Guaranteed Seven Day Residential Installation and Service
Grantee shall complete Standard Installations and service requested by a         Free installation, or, if the installation fee has been waived for promotional
Customer within seven business days after order has been placed.                 reasons, then one month’s basic service; for a service violation, $15 credit
Grantee shall provide Customers seeking Non- Standard Installations with a total Free installation, or, if the installation fee has been waived for promotional
installation cost estimate and an estimated date of completion.                  reasons, then one month’s basic service
All underground cable drops shall be buried no less than 12 inches deep and work $10 credit
shall be completed in no more than three calendar weeks from the installation.
Residential Installation and Service Appointments
All Grantee Customers wanting installation of cable or service may choose any    $25 credit
available three hour time block between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. six days a week.
The Grantee may not cancel an appointment with a Customer after 5:00 p.m. on the $25 credit or the guarantee offered by the Grantee, whichever is greater
day before the scheduled appointment.
If the Grantee cannot make an appointment for any reason, the Grantee shall
contact the Customer before the end of the scheduled appointment and reschedule  $25 credit, or the guarantee offered by the Grantee, whichever is greater
at the convenience of the Customer.
If the Grantee technician arrives within the agreed-upon time, and the Customer
is absent, the technician shall leave written notification of arrival and return $10 credit if the customer is not contacted within 48 hours
time, and the Grantee shall contact the Customer within 48 hours to reschedule.
TV Reception Difficulties and Cable Modem Internet Connection
All Grantees shall make repairs promptly, and interrupt service only for good    One day’s free service for each day in which there is a service interruption
cause, during periods of minimum use of the system, and for no more than 24      for each Customer in the affected area
hours, except where unavoidable.
All Grantees shall provide clear television reception that meets or exceeds FCC  One day’s free service for each day in which reception falls below FCC
technical standards.                                                             standards
All Grantees shall meet all specifications advertised for Internet services.     One day’s free service for each day in which any advertised specification is
                                                                                 not met for affected Customers
If a Customer experiences poor video or audio reception due to Grantee           One day’s free service for each day after the Customer has called and the
equipment, the Grantee shall repair the problem no later than the next day,      problem remains uncorrected
unless otherwise agreed to with the Customer.
Problem Resolution
All Grantees shall be able to provide credit, waive fees, schedule appointments
and change billing cycles. Any difficulties that cannot be resolved by the       $10 credit
Customer service representatives shall be referred to a
supervisor who shall make best efforts to contact the Customer within 24 hours.
In the case of difficulties that cannot be resolved, the supervisor shall make
best efforts to contact the Customer within four hours and resolve the problem   $10 credit
within 48 hours or within such other time frame as is acceptable to the Customer
and Grantee.
Billing, Credits and Refunds Customers shall receive a clear and concise bill
monthly. The Grantee shall respond to a Customer’s billing inquiry made by     $10 credit
telephone or e-mail within 48 hours, and to a written billing inquiry within two
weeks of receipt of the inquiry.
All Grantees shall allow 30 days from the date a subscriber bill is sent before  $10 credit
imposing an administrative fee not to exceed $1.50 per bill.
If a Customer requests disconnection of any or all services, billing for
affected services shall end on the same day, or on the future date for which the
disconnect is ordered. All Grantees shall issue a credit or refund within 15     $10 credit or refund if the Customer’s account has closed
business days after the close of the Customer’s billing cycle following the
return of the equipment and request for disconnection.
Deposits shall accrue interest at a fair market rate. Within ten days after
termination of service for any reason, the Grantee shall repay any deposit with  $10 credit or refund if the Customer’s account has closed
a statement showing accrued interest to the Customer less any sums owed to the
Grantee.
Respectful Treatment of Property
Grantees shall replace any trees or shrubs damaged during any installation or    $25 credit plus any additional repairs or reimbursement if the Grantee fails
repair.                                                                          to replace or repair the damage
Grantees shall restore any damaged property to the same condition it was before  $25 credit plus any additional repairs or reimbursement if the Grantee fails
damage occurred.                                                                 to replace or repair the damaged property
Grantees will give notice to property owners before entering premises,
specifying the work to be done. In the event of an emergency, the Grantee shall  $15 credit if the Grantee fails to provide notice or enters premises without
attempt to contact the property owner or legal tenant in person, and shall leave permission, plus any additional repairs or reimbursement
a door hanger notice in the event personal contact is not made.
All Grantee personnel shall clean up debris caused by the Grantee’s activities $15 credit plus cleanup and disposal of debris
at a work site and properly dispose of cable materials.
Services for Customers with Disabilities
All Grantees will deliver and pick up converters at the home of Customers with
disabilities. In the case of a malfunctioning converter, the technician shall    $25 credit
provide another converter, hook it up and ensure that it is working properly,
and shall return the defective converter to the Grantee.
All Grantees will provide TDD/TYY service through trained operators who can      $25 credit
provide any assistance regularly available from a CSR at no charge.
Grantees will install, at no charge, any closed captioning device purchased by a $25 credit
hearing- impaired Customer.
Grantees will provide free use of a converter remote control unit to mobility-   $25 credit and provision of remote control unit
impaired Customers.
Customer Information
Upon installation, or at a Customer’s request, Grantees will provide the
following requested information and credit information:
A. Products and services offered;
B. Complete range of service options and prices;
C. Customer service standards;
D. Instruction on use of cable TV, interactive TV, Internet service, remote and
on standard VCR hookups;
E. Billing, collection and disconnect policies;                                  Provide Customer with the information. $10 credit for failure to provide
F. Customer privacy requirements;
G. Complaint procedure, containing the City of the designated agency to whom the
Complaints should be addressed;
H. Use and availability of A/B switch;
I. Use and availability of parental control/lock- out device;
J. Special services for Customers with visual, hearing or mobility disabilities;
K. Days, times of operation, and locations of the service centers;
L. A copy of Chapter 4-280 of the Municipal Code and all appendices thereto.
Grantees shall provide customers and the City with written notification of any
change in rates, programming, or channels at least 30 days before the date of    $10 credit for each affected Customer
the change.
All officers, agents, and employees of the Grantee, its contractors and
subcontractors in personal contact with the Customer shall have a visible        $10 credit
identification card with their name and photograph and shall orally identify
themselves upon first contact with the Customer.
All CSRs shall identify themselves orally to callers immediately following the   $10 credit
greeting during each telephone contact with the public.
Each CSR, technician, or employee of the Grantee in each contact with a Customer
shall state the estimated cost of the service, repair, or installation orally
prior to delivery of the service or before any work is performed, and shall      $10 credit
provide the Customer with an oral statement of the total charges before
terminating the telephone call or before leaving the location at which the work
was performed.
Customer Privacy
For any violation of privacy per federal law or Municipal Code                   The Customer has the choice of either a check for $150, or a credit to
                                                                                 Customer account in the same amount.
Safety
When the Grantee receives notice that an unsafe condition exists with respect to At least $40 a day for each 24 hours’ delay in responding to the Customer
its equipment, Grantee shall investigate such condition immediately, and shall   safety concerns
take such measures as are necessary to remove or eliminate any unsafe condition.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
Grantees will guarantee Customer satisfaction for every Customer who requests
new or upgraded Cable Service or Other Service of receiving the service and
receive a pro rata credit in an amount equal to the pro rata charge for the      The Customer will have the opportunity to cancel upgraded Cable Service or
remaining days of service being disconnected if the Customer is dissatisfied     Other Service within 30 days
with the service, except where a free promotion has been offered, there shall be
no charge of any kind for the service or for disconnection of the service.
 
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Exhibition, sale or offer of sexually explicit material prohibited
   
130.02   Loud and continuing noises prohibited
   
130.03   Sound trucks restricted
   
130.04   Fireworks prohibited
   
130.05   Shooting of firearms prohibited; discharge of bow and arrow restricted
   
130.06   Discharge of air rifles and pellet guns prohibited
   
130.07   Fires prohibited on asphalt streets; smoke emission prohibited
   
130.08   Flower picking prohibited
   
130.09   Spitting prohibited
   
130.10   Obstructing trees and vegetation prohibited
   
130.11   Graffiti prohibited
   
130.12   Discriminatory conduct prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks and pyrotechnics, see §
94.130 et seq. and
Chapter 98
   Prohibition of synthetic cannabinoids, see
Chapter 99
§ 130.01 EXHIBITION, SALE OR OFFER OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, lend, give away or offer to sell, lend or give
away or in any manner exhibit any patently offensive representations or
descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the
genitals or of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated
unless the representations or descriptions, taken as a whole, have serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   (B)   When an indictment is found or an affidavit filed against a person
charging him with the violation of any of the provisions of this section, the
court or judge thereof shall examine the indictment or affidavit to determine
if the allegedly obscene material referred to in the indictment or affidavit is
sufficient to justify further proceedings in the prosecution thereof. If the
judge determines that the allegedly harmful material is not, on its face,
unlawful, he or she shall dismiss the indictment or affidavit. If the judge
determines that the allegedly obscene material set out in the indictment or
affidavit does, on its face, constitute sufficient cause to proceed with the
prosecution, the judge shall fix a time and place for a hearing to determine
whether probable cause exists for the issuance of a warrant of arrest and the
court shall direct the clerk of the court to issue notice immediately with a
copy of the indictment or affidavit filed, giving the person at least five days
notice of the hearing and informing the person that he or she may subpoena
witnesses and present evidence at the hearing. The hearing shall, in no event,
be held later the ten days following the issuance of the notice.
   (C)   If, after hearing evidence, the judge finds that probable cause exists
for the issuance of a warrant of arrest, he or she shall direct the clerk to
issue immediately a warrant of arrest returnable forthwith. If, after hearing
evidence, the judge finds that no probable cause exists for the issuance of a
warrant of arrest, he or she shall enter the findings of record and dismiss the
indictment or affidavit.
   (D)   It is the purpose of this section to provide any person charged with
the commission of an offense under this section a prior adversary hearing
before the issuance of a warrant for the arrest of the person and the seizure
of the evidence incidental to the arrest. Any person found guilty of violating
this section shall be fined.
(‘89 Code, § 110.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 LOUD AND CONTINUING NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The making, continuing, causing or aiding to be made or continued any
loud, unnecessary or unusual noises whatsoever, which either annoy, injure or
endanger the comfort, repose, health or safety of others unless the making or
continuing of the same is necessary for the protection or preservation of
property or the health, safety or life or limb of some person is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
   (B)   The following acts constitute a public nuisance:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn, signal device or attachment on an
automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, truck, bus or other vehicle except as a
necessary warning of danger to person or property;
      (2)   The creation of grating, screeching, grinding, squeaking, loud
reports or shots, or other noises in the use of automobiles, motorcycles or
other vehicles or appurtenances attached thereto;
      (3)   The creation of loud noises by the manipulation, handling and
playing of musical instruments, except in conjunction with authorized parades
or public functions, a permit for which has been issued by the Board of Public
Works and Safety;
      (4)   The keeping of an animal, bird or fowl which by causing frequent or
continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in any
dwelling or apartment house or residence. It shall constitute a nuisance to
harbor or keep at a single-family residence, more than three dogs, provided,
however, that a dog under the age of two months shall not be counted or deemed
to be a dog for the purpose of this division; and/or
      (5)   The creation of noise, as hereinabove defined, by any radio,
phonograph or any musical instrument, or the making of any loud, unnecessary or
boisterous noises at any hour whatsoever of the day.
(‘89 Code, § 110.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 SOUND TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall create noise by the use of any radio, sound truck,
public address system or other like devices upon the streets or public places
of the city, or use any like devices or any window tapping or rattling devices
upon or from any building or private property for the purpose of advertising or
attracting attention, without first obtaining a permit from the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
   (B)   Upon application to the Board of Public Works and Safety, a permit may
be issued to any responsible person or organization to broadcast programs of
music, speeches or other general entertainment as part of and in conjunction
with any civic enterprise or celebration of a non-commercial character, or to
use a sound truck or public address system. The Police Department may use a
sound truck or public address system upon the streets and public places for the
purpose of directing or educating all vehicular traffic upon the streets and
public places.
(‘89 Code, § 110.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, shoot or set off any
firecrackers, bombs or fireworks of any nature in the city.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to licensed and supervised display
of fireworks. Any person desiring to have a licensed display of fireworks shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtain a permit from the Chief of the Fire Department;
      (2)   The permit must be signed by the State Fire Marshal; and
      (3)   The display must be under the direct supervision of the Chief of
the Fire Department.
(‘89 Code, § 110.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 SHOOTING OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED; DISCHARGE OF BOW AND ARROW
RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or
firearm of any type within the city. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any police officer while in the discharge of his or her police duty.
   (B)   No person shall discharge any bow and arrow or other type of
instrument used to facilitate the projection of any object, in any manner so as
to endanger the safety or the property of others within the city limits.
(‘89 Code, § 110.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.06 DISCHARGE OF AIR RIFLES AND PELLET GUNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge any air rifle, air pistol or revolver, or any gun
operated by CO2 or other gaseous propellents within the city.
(‘89 Code, § 110.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.07 FIRES PROHIBITED ON ASPHALT STREETS; SMOKE EMISSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Includes any dry or drained kitchen and table refuse, fruit,
vegetable and animal waste, or anything whatsoever that will or may decompose
and become offensive or dangerous to health.
(‘89 Code, § 110.12)
   (B)   No person shall kindle or cause to be kindled any fire for the purpose
of burning any leaves, shavings or other combustible matter on any street in
the city which is paved with asphalt or other material susceptible to burning
or otherwise affected by fire.
(‘89 Code, § 110.09)
   (C)   The emission of dense, black or gray smoke, suspended solids, noxious
odors, and/or the burning of garbage or rubber goods in a fire outside a
building shall be deemed and is a public nuisance and is unlawful.
(‘89 Code, § 110.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.08 FLOWER PICKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pick or remove any flowers from any of the flower beds on
any of the streets or public grounds within the city.
(‘89 Code, § 110.10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.09 SPITTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge upon any sidewalk, or upon any floor of any public
hall, vestibule or stairway within the city, any phlegm, mucous or other matter
by coughing, hawking or spitting.
(‘89 Code, § 110.11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.10 OBSTRUCTING TREES AND VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall plant any shrubs, bushes, trees or other forms of
vegetation at any intersection of any roads or highways within the city which,
in the opinion of the Board of Public Works and Safety, obstructs the vision of
motorists or pedestrians approaching the intersection. The Board of Public
Works and Safety shall have the authority to determine where violations exist
and shall have the right to have the obstruction removed in the event the
property owner or occupant, after reasonable notice, refuses to remove the
obstruction.
   (B)   In the event the city removes any obstruction as determined by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, the cost thereof shall be taxed against the
offending property owner and placed upon the tax records for collection.
(‘89 Code, § 110.13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic regulations, see
Title VII
§ 130.11 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Graffiti defined.  GRAFFITI means any unauthorized inscription, word,
figure, painting or other defacement that is written, marked, etched,
scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any
surface of public or private property provided that such graffiti was not
expressly permitted by the city.
   (B)   Graffiti prohibited. It shall be the duty of all owners of property
within the city to which graffiti has been applied to have such graffiti abated
in conformance with the requirements of this section. The existence of all
graffiti on public or private property within the city in violation of this
section is expressly declared a public nuisance.
   (C)   Reporting graffiti within the city. All graffiti within the city shall
be reported to the Police Department. Upon receiving a report of graffiti
within the city, the Police Department shall take pictures, as necessary, and
prepare a formal police report. The Police Department shall forward copies of
all such police reports to the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Graffiti removal. Upon receiving a police report of graffiti on public
property, the Department of Public Works shall have such graffiti abated as
soon as possible. Upon receiving a police report of graffiti on private
property, the Department of Public Works shall notify the property owner, in
writing, and demand the following:
      (1)   That the property owner abate the graffiti within five days of the
date of such notice at the property owner’s sole expense; or
      (2)   That the property owner sign and return a waiver of liability to
the Department of Public Works within five days of such notice permitting the
Department of Public Works to abate the graffiti at no cost to the property
owner.
   (E)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for a property
owner to fail to either abate the graffiti within five days of being notified
by the Department of Public Works or to sign and return a wavier of liability
to the Department of Public Works within five days of such notice.
   (F)   Removal by the city. In addition to any fine which may be imposed
under §
130.99 of this chapter, if the property owner fails to abate the graffiti in
conformance with the requirements of division (D) above of this section, the
city, by and through its Department of Public Works, may enter upon the
property and abate the graffiti by any means necessary. The cost of such
removal shall be the responsibility of the property owner and the costs thereof
shall be taxed against the offending property owner and placed upon the tax
records for collection.
(Ord. 22-2010, passed 7-26-10)
§ 130.12 DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibited acts of discrimination. It is hereby declared by the city
that no person, corporation, partnership, company, or other individual or
entity located within, or conducting business within, the city's corporate
limits shall discriminate against any other person in the provision of and/or
opportunity to participate in or enter into a place of business, obtain
housing, use public accommodations, obtain an education, obtain and maintain
employment, enter into a contract, and/or participate in or obtain any program,
service, or amenity provided to the general public on the basis of the latter's
race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual
orientation, gender identity, age, veteran status, and familial status.
   (B)   Interference with rights. No person, corporation, partnership, company
or other individual or entity located within, or conducting business within the
city's corporate limits may coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
other person:
      (1)   In the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
this section; or
      (2)   Because the person has exercised or enjoyed, or has aided or
encouraged another person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by this section.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Protections in this section against discriminatory activities shall
not apply to:
         (a)   Any not-for-profit corporation or association organized for
primarily religious purposes or for any school, educational or charitable
institution owned, or conducted by, or affiliated with a church or religious
institution, society or order:
            1.   Giving preference to members of such entities; or
            2.   In an educational setting, promoting the religious principles
for which the entity is established or maintained;
         (b)   Religious worship and clergy while engaged in religious duties
or activities;
         (c)   A not-for-profit membership club organized exclusively for
fraternal or religious purposes and/or any not-for-profit social club that is
not open to the general public, so long as the same is exempt from taxation
under the Internal Revenue Code, as amended;
         (d)   Any persons or property expressly exempted under I.C. 22-9 et
seq., I.C. 22-9.5 et seq., or any other applicable and binding law or court
decision;
         (e)   A private residence or private gathering not open to the general
public;
         (f)   The maintenance of separate restrooms or dressing rooms for the
exclusive use of persons of one gender;
         (g)   The hiring or referral for employment of a person for a job
position on the basis of sex, religion, and/or age in those certain instances
where the same are lawful bona fide occupational qualifications for the job
position at issue; and
         (h)   In the limited case of the person's age, housing established and
operated primarily for senior citizens and occupied solely by persons 62 years
of age, or older.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary,
no act prohibited under federal, state or local law shall be permitted by this
section, nor shall this section compel any person to act in a manner contrary
to federal, state or local law.
   (D)   Committee.
      (1)   There shall be a standing committee established by the City Council
known as the Investigation and Reconciliation ("IR") Committee. The IR
Committee shall consist of five members. One member shall be appointed by the
City Council; one member shall be appointed by the Superintendent of the
Valparaiso Community Schools; one member shall be appointed by the President of
Valparaiso University; one member shall be appointed by the Mayor; and one
member shall be appointed by the Valparaiso Human Relations Council from among
its voting members. Each member of the IR Committee must be a resident of the
city. Members shall serve annual terms with their terms expiring on December 31
of each year and upon a replacement being appointed. Members may be reappointed
to consecutive terms. The members of the IR Committee will not be compensated.
Except as otherwise provided under Indiana law, the IR Committee will be
subject to the requirements of Indiana's Open Door Law, I.C 5-14-1.5-1 and
Access to Public Records Act, I.C. 5-14-3-1. The City Attorney, or its
designee, shall serve as legal counsel for the IR Committee.
      (2)   To the extent a member of the IR Committee determines a conflict
exists so that the member cannot impartially perform his/her duties, the member
shall notify the City Attorney. At that point the member shall have no further
involvement with the particular matter. If more than two members have a
conflict on a particular matter, which would result in the IR Committee lacking
a quorum, then the Mayor shall appoint a sufficient number of new member(s) so
that the IR Committee can address the specific matter. Except for a complaint
filed against the Mayor, it shall not be considered a conflict for the City
Attorney to handle an investigation of a city employee.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Included as part of this section is a discrimination complaint
("complaint") form. A valid complaint must be:
         (a)   Complete;
         (b)   Allege a violation of the section that occurred within 60 days
of the filing of the complaint with enough detail to allow for a meaningful
investigation;
         (c)   Signed by the person alleging the violation under oath and
subject to perjury for intentionally providing false and/or materially
misleading information; and
         (d)   Filed with the Clerk/Treasurer's office in a sealed envelope
with following words conspicuously written: "Discrimination Complaint - City
Attorney's Office". To the extent allowed by law, the complaint shall be kept
confidential. Upon receipt of the complaint, the Clerk/Treasurer's office shall
notify the City Attorney and forward the sealed envelope to him/her.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the City Attorney shall review the complaint and
determine whether the requirements of division (E)(1) above have been followed.
If the requirements have not been followed, the City Attorney shall notify the
party, at the address contained in the complaint, of the deficiencies. The
party shall have seven days from the date of the City Attorney's letter to
correct the deficiencies and file an amended complaint consistent with division
(E)(1) above.
      (3)   If the requirements of division (E)(1) above have been followed,
the City Attorney shall notify the IR Committee and investigate the complaint.
The City Attorney may contact any relevant party to discuss the allegations in
the complaint. The City Attorney shall keep the IR Committee apprised of his/
her progress. Upon completion of the investigation, the City Attorney shall
provide his/her written findings and all relevant material to the IR Committee.
To the extent allowed by law, such written findings shall be kept confidential.
The IR Committee shall review the findings and may request additional
investigation and/or legal guidance from the City Attorney.
      (4)   Upon completion of the investigatory work, the IR Committee shall
meet, and by majority vote, conclude as follows:
         (a)   The complaint does not allege facts that form the basis of an
ordinance violation or the evidence submitted does not support the allegations
in the complaint. In addition, if the Committee believes that the party filing
the complaint provided false or materially misleading information and filed a
complaint for the purpose of harassment or other reasons inconsistent with this
section, the IR Committee may assess a fine in an amount not to exceed $500
and/or direct the City Attorney to refer the matter to the Porter County
Prosecutor for review.
         (b)   The complaint alleges facts that would form the basis of an
ordinance violation and that by the preponderance of the evidence submitted, it
is more likely than not that the acts(s) alleged in the complaint took place.
For the purpose of this provision, the term PREPONDERANCE OF THE EVIDENCE
shall mean that the evidence provided must supports the conclusion that it is
more probable than not that the alleged acts(s), as presented in the complaint,
took place.
         (c)   The complaint alleges facts that would form the basis of an
ordinance violation and there is clear and convincing evidence to conclude that
the alleged act(s) likely took place. For the purpose of this provision, the
term CLEAR AND CONVINCING shall mean that the evidence provided must establish
that it is substantially more likely than not that the alleged acts(s), as
presented in the complaint, took place.
      (5)   Any member, within seven days of the IR Committee's vote, may
submit to the City Attorney a written statement providing their specific
rationale for supporting or opposing the decision. Such statement shall be kept
with the records of the proceeding.
      (6)   If the conclusion is a finding under division (E)(4)(a) above, the
City Attorney shall notify the parties as to the decision and the matter shall
be considered closed. If the conclusion is a finding under division (E)(4)(b)
above, the City Attorney shall notify the parties as to the decision and offer
the opportunities to participate in a dispute resolution process as provided in
division (F) below. If the conclusion is a finding under division (E)(4)(c)
above, the Commission shall do one of the following:
         (a)   Inform the parties of the finding and take no further action;
         (b)   Inform the parties and offer nonbinding mediation or other
dispute resolution as provided in division (F) below.
         (c)   Inform the parties and assess a fine in an amount not to exceed
$500. If a fine is assessed, the party shall have the right, within 30 days of
receiving notice, to request a hearing before the IR Committee at a public
meeting and contest the fine. The IR Committee may affirm or reduce the fine.
   (F)   Dispute resolution. Consistent with the goals of this section as
articulated in the recitals contained in Ordinance 9, 2016, the City Council
wants to encourage parties to resolve disagreements and misunderstanding, and
move towards reconciliation. In the case of a finding under division (E)(4)(b)
above, the parties will be offered an opportunity to meet with a trained
facilitator and discuss factors that may have resulted in the complaint being
filed. In the case of a finding under division (E)(4)(c) above, the parties
will be offered an opportunity to meet with a trained mediator in an attempt to
resolve the dispute. The IR Committee and City Attorney shall establish the
specific process and procedures for the facilitator and mediator. The primary
goals of any procedure shall be to foster a better understanding between the
parties; encourage face-to-face conversations; and, promote reconciliation. To
the extent funds are budgeted, the cost of such services shall be borne by the
city.
   (G)   Discrimination in performance of city contracts. Every contract to
which the city is a party shall contain a provision requiring the contractor
and his subcontractor to abide by the terms of this section and not to
discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment who is to be
employed in the performance of such contracts with respect to his hire, tenure,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, because of his/her race,
religion, color, sex, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual
orientation, gender identity, age, or veteran status . Breach of this covenant
may be considered a material breach of the contract. Notwithstanding the
preceding, failure of the city to request this provision be added to a city
contract shall not render the contract void or voidable.
   (H)   Police Department. If a complaint names an employee of the Police
Department, the City Attorney shall immediately forward the complaint to the
Chief of Police and notify the IR Committee. The complaint shall be handled
consistent with Police Department General Order 1.2.9, as amended. The Police
Chief shall provide the City Attorney with periodic updates of its
investigation as well as the final resolution. That information shall be
conveyed to the IR Committee members.
   (I)   Private enforcement. To the extent allowed by law, this section may be
enforced by a party through the commencement of a legal action in the Porter
County circuit or superior court or any other court of proper jurisdiction
within one year after a finding under divisions (E)(4)(b) or (c) above. This
provision does not extend any statute of limitations or filing deadlines
provided in any federal, state or local law/regulation.
(Ord. 9, 2016, passed 5-23-16)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
130.11 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation.
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one
year.
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $300 for each additional violation within
one year.
      (2)   Each day on which a violation of §
130.11 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 22-2010, passed 7-26-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
      
152.   RESERVED
      
153.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
155.   BUILDING CODE
      
156.   UNSAFE BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
157.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
158.   RENTAL HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Contractor registration
   
150.02   Addressing
   
150.03   Smoke detectors
   
150.04   House moving
   
150.05   Building permit fee schedule
   
150.06   Special regulations for certain contractors
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Contractor registration. This section, and all ordinances supplemental
or amendatory hereto, shall be known as the “Requirements for the registration
and listing of contractors, subcontractors and specialty contractors in the
City of Valparaiso, Indiana” and may be cited as such.
(‘89 Code, 32.01)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for central
information and record keeping of contractor, subcontractor and specialty
contractor performance in the hope that minimum standards will be encouraged
for the protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general
welfare to users of contractors, subcontractors and specialty contractors in
the performance of construction, alteration, repair, moving, wrecking and
demolishing of any structures.
(‘89 Code, 32.02)
   (C)   Administration. The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and
directed to administer and enforce all provisions of this section.
(‘89 Code, 32.03)
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTRACTOR. Any person, except a licensed architect or registered
professional engineer, who in any capacity other than as the employee of
another for wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to construct, alter,
repair, move, wreck, or demolish any structure. The term includes general
contractor, subcontractor or specialty contractor, but does not include a
person who furnishes materials or supplies.
      SUBCONTRACTOR/SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. A person who makes an agreement to
perform a limited segment of the construction, improvement, repair or
remodeling of the premises. This includes agreements with a general contractor
or property owner.
(I.C. 22-11-3.1-1)
   (E)   Requirements for registration. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the business or act in the capacity of a contractor or subcontractor/
specialty contractor within the city without having registered and submitted
the following:
      (1)   An application form indicating the name, address and legal business
status of the contractor/subcontractor/specialty contractor to the Building
Commissioner. If the contractor/ subcontractor/specialty contractor is a
corporation, the name and address of the resident agent is required. Area of
expertise shall be stated on the application. The areas of expertise shall
include but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   General contractor;
         (b)   Carpentry;
         (c)   Plumbing;
         (d)   Electrical;
         (e)   Masonry/tiling;
         (f)   Concrete;
         (g)   Heating/cooling/ventilating;
         (h)   Roofing/siding/insulation/weather protection;
         (i)   Drywall/plaster;
         (j)   Mechanical (HVAC);
         (k)   Excavating;
         (l)   Demolition;
         (m)   Flooring, excluding hardwood and carpeting;
         (n)   Tree removal/trimming/landscaping/lawn maintenance; and
         (o)   Snow removal.
      (2)   Each contractor or subcontractor/specialty contractor shall submit
a certificate of insurance in the minimum amounts of $500,000 bodily injury and
property damage and workers’ compensation in the maximum amount required by
state law.
      (3)   Each contractor or subcontractor/specialty contractor shall submit
a bond in the amount of $5,000 to provide an assurance that they will comply
with the ordinances and regulations of the City of Valparaiso. This bond shall
be filed with the Porter County Recorder.
(I.C. 22-11-3.1-2) (‘89 Code, 32.05)
      (4)   Upon presentation of the above requirements the Clerk-Treasurer
shall furnish the contractor, subcontractor or specialty contractor with a
registration receipt.
   (F)   Fees, payment; issuance of permits; homeowners.  
      (1)   Upon presentation of the requirements, and provided that the
contractor/ subcontractor/specialty contractor is not otherwise in violation of
this or any other city code/ordinance, the Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish the
contractor, subcontractor/specialty contractor with a registration receipt upon
payment of the registration fee of $100.
(I.C. 22-11-3.1-3)
      (2)   If registering for the first time between September 1 and October
31 of any year the initial registration fee of $100 will be charged; however,
this fee will carry over to pay the renewal fee for the succeeding year. All
contractors registering for the first time between June 1, 2009 and October 31,
2009 only shall pay an initial registration fee of $100; however this fee will
carry over to pay the renewal fee of the registration expiring on October 31,
2010.
      (3)   No person shall engage in the business of contracting,
subcontracting or specialty contracting in the city without first procuring
from the Clerk-Treasurer a receipt evidencing payment of the registration fees
prescribed in this division (F). The Building Commissioner shall not issue
building permits to anyone except a duly registered contractor, subcontractor
or specialty contractor or his or her duly authorized active officer or agent
under the provisions of this division (F).
      (4)   Building permits shall be granted to actual homeowners who are
undertaking to do the work or construction themselves on their own homes or
structures on the premises on which they reside. However, this exclusion shall
not be available more than once every five years when applied towards
construction of new one- or two-family residences.
      (5)   All contractors/subcontractors/specialty contractors seeking to do
business under a new or different name shall be required to submit a new
application form and pay the initial registration fee. The Building
Commissioner may deny the issuance of a new registration until any and all
outstanding violations and citations against the contractor/subcontractor/
specialty contractor have been resolved.
   (G)   Duration. A registration shall be for a period of one year between
November 1 and October 31 of the following year or for the remainder thereof,
whichever time is shorter. The registration period for the years 2009/2020 only
shall be for the time period between August 1, 2009 and October 31, 2010.
(I.C. 22-11-3.1-4) (‘89 Code, 32.06)
   (H)   Renewal procedure. Upon the expiration of any registration issued
under this section, the contractor, subcontractor or specialty contractor will
be required to reapply for a new registration. Any registrant renewing his or
her registration or paying his or her renewal after November 1 of each
succeeding year shall be subject to a penalty of $30. When renewing the
registration the registrant shall again provide the Clerk-Treasurer with a new
registration form, a copy of the bond recorded with Porter County and with a
certificate of insurance as specified in division (E) above. For registration
period 2009/2010 only; renewal of registration after August 1, 2009 will be
subject to a penalty of $30.
   (I)   Renewal fees.
      (1)   As long as a registrant pays the registration renewal fee annually
on or before October 31, the fees shall be $50. For registration period 2009/
2010 only; as long as registrant pays the registration renewal fee annually on
or before July 31, 2009, the fees shall be $50.
      (2)   If the registrant does not pay the registration fee on or before
the dates as listed in division (I)(1) annually, the fees shall be calculated
in accordance with the provisions of division (H) above.
   (J)   Complaint record. The Building Commissioner will accept written
complaints against listed contractors and shall maintain such complaints in a
file to be kept for five years. These records shall be open to the public.
(‘89 Code, 32.07)
   (K)   Notice of violation. Failure of a contractor, subcontractor or
specialty contractor to comply with this section shall result in a written
notice of the failure served on the contractor by the Building Inspector. The
notice shall state that the contractor must comply with this section within 48
hours of the notice. The notice shall state that a fine of up to $2,500 shall
be imposed upon the failure to comply with the notice.
(‘89 Code, 32.08)
   (L)   Fine. Failure to comply with the Building Inspector’s notice of non-
compliance shall result in a fine of up to $2,500.
(‘89 Code, 32.09)
   (M)    Service. Service under the terms of this section shall be effective
upon the posting of the notice in First Class regular mail addressed to the
business address to the contractor.
(‘89 Code, 32.10)
   (N)   Non-transferable. No listing issued under the provision of this
section shall be assignable or transferable.
   (O)   Revocation. The Building Commissioner shall have the power to
temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the registration of any contractor or
subcontractor who the Building Commissioner determines to have committed one or
more of the following acts or omissions:
      (1)   Deliberate misrepresentations of any material fact, fraud, or
deceit in obtaining a contractor registration.
      (2)   Gross negligence or gross incompetence while engaged in the
business of acting in the capacity of a contractor or subcontractor within the
meaning of this section.
      (3)   Aiding, abetting, or knowingly combining with an unregistered
person with the intent to evade the provisions of this section.
      (4)   Abandonment without legal excuse of any construction project or
operation engaged in or undertaken by the registrant as contractor or
subcontractor.
      (5)   Diversion of funds or property received for a specified purpose,
and for the purpose and prosecution or completion of any construction project
or operation, and the application or use of such funds for any other project or
operation, obligation, or purpose with intent to defraud or deceive creditors
or the owners.
      (6)   Willful and deliberate violations of the building laws of the State
of Indiana and the City of Valparaiso.
      (7)   Willful departure from or disregard of plans and specifications in
any material respect, without the consent of the person entitled to have the
particular construction or operation completed.
      (8)   The doing of any willful or fraudulent act by the registrant as
contractor or subcontractor as a consequence of which another is substantially
injured.
      (9)   Failure in any substantial respect to comply with the provisions of
this section.
      (10)   Disregarding a stop work order which has been issued for violation
of ordinances or building codes or laws; provided, when a contract has been
executed or commenced, the contractor may proceed nevertheless to complete such
contract on the condition that he or she will make the necessary adjustments
and repairs.
      (11)   Any other reason not set forth herein that the Building
Commissioner determines justifies a suspension or revocation of a contractor’s
registration.
   (P)   Appeal to Board of Works.  A subcontractor or contractor may appeal a
decision of the Building Commissioner to suspend or revoke said contractor’s
registration to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (Q)   Revocation procedure. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be
the board authorized to conduct hearings on all appeals.
      (1)   When a hearing is requested by a contractor on charges brought
under this section, the Board shall set the time and place when such hearing
shall be held. The contractor shall be present for such hearing and may be
represented by counsel.
      (2)   At hearing the Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine if
a contractor is in violation of the terms of this section and the Board shall
have the power to suspend such contractor registration for a definite period,
to revoke such contractor registration, or to issue an order against such
contractor to correct the violation, fixing a reasonable time within which such
correction shall be made or accomplished and, upon compliance with such order,
the Board may dismiss such complaint. If the contractor does not correct such
violation within the time required by the previous order, the Board shall have
the power to extend such time for correction of the violation or shall have the
right to suspend such contractor registration for a determinative period or may
revoke the contractor registration without any further right to hearing by
registrant.
      (3)   After revocation of any contractor registration, such registration
shall not be renewed, and no new contractor registration shall be issued to the
same registrant or contractor registration holder within a period of at least
one year subsequent to the date of revocation. After the expiration of the one
year period, a contractor registration shall only be issued upon proper
documentation showing that all violations, acts, or omissions for which the
contractor registration was revoked have been corrected and that compliance
with all conditions imposed by the decision of the revocation has been met.
      (4)   Any contractor who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Works may further appeal as allowed by the laws of the State of Indiana.
      (5)   Whenever a new contractor registration is issued to any applicant
whose contractor registration has previously been revoked, the issuance shall
be treated as an initial registration.
(‘89 Code, 32.11) (Am. Ord. 28-2005, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 11-2009, passed
3-23-09)
§ 150.02 ADDRESSING.
   (A)   The house numbering system is to be based on a grid network of 330
feet. At each grid line of 330 feet the numbers shall increase by 100. However,
if a grid line falls within 100 feet of a street intersection, the change shall
take place at the intersection at the discretion of the City Engineer’s Office.
   Note that grid lines may or may not conform to actual blocks, and a block
may contain more that one grid number.
(‘89 Code, § 19.01) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   The base line of the system shall be Lincolnway extended east and
west. The meridian line shall be Washington Street extended north and south.
(‘89 Code, § 19.02)
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Engineer’s Office to assign
all street names and house numbers. The City Engineer’s Office shall coordinate
the assignments with all relevant emergency services agencies, the post office,
and appropriate local, county, state and federal agencies.
(‘89 Code, § 19.03) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (D)   House numbers shall progress, within each grid number, from 1 through
49 and 0 through 48 for addresses on north/south streets north of Lincolnway or
east/west streets east of Washington Street, and from 51 through 99 and 50
through 98 on north/south streets south of Lincolnway or east/west streets west
of Washington Street. The grid numbers shall progress upward by hundreds from 0
to 50 in the grids (blocks) adjacent to Washington or Lincolnway.
(‘89 Code, § 19.04) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (E)   The following streets shall be assigned these respective numbers:
      (1)   Washington Street; 0
      (2)   Valparaiso Street; 400E
      (3)   Roosevelt Road; 1200E
      (4)   Sturdy Road; 2000E
      (5)   Silhavy Road; 2800E
      (6)   Campbell Street; 450E
      (7)   Yellowstone Road; 1250E
      (8)   Froberg Road; 2850E
      (9)   Lincolnway; 0
      (10)   Wood and Chestnut Street; 300N
      (11)   Evans Avenue; 1100N
      (12)   Glendale Boulevard; 1900N
      (13)   Vale Park Road; 2700N
      (14)   Sturdy Road; 3500N
      (15)   Union Street and Boundary; 550S
      (16)   Linwood Road (south of Graceland Cemetery); 1350S
      (17)   Martinal Road; 2150S
      (18)   Division Road; 3750S
(‘89 Code, § 19.05)
   (F)   House numbers shall be so assigned so that while driving in the
direction of progressing numbers the even numbers are always to the right and
odd numbers to the left. House numbers shall be even on the east and odd on the
west side of all streets extended north of Lincolnway. House numbers shall be
even on the west and odd on the east side of all streets extended south of
Lincolnway. House numbers shall be even on the south and odd on the north side
of all streets extended east of Washington Street. House numbers shall be even
on the north and odd on the south side of all streets west of Washington
Street.
(‘89 Code, § 19.06)
   (G)   Streets running in a generally north/south direction shall be assigned
north/south numbers. Streets running in a generally east/west direction shall
be assigned east/west numbers.
(‘89 Code, § 19.07) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (H)   Curvilinear or irregular streets which maintain the same street name
throughout their length shall be assigned numbers consistent with the general
overall direction that they run. The numbering system shall be consistent and
continuous throughout the length of the street regardless of localized changes
of direction or curves.
(‘89 Code, § 19.08) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (I)   Houses or buildings located on two or more lots, each lot having been
assigned a number, may display the number assigned to any one of these lots at
the owner’s discretion.
(‘89 Code, § 19.09)
   (J)   All subdivision plats brought before the Plan Commission for final
approval shall show house numbers which conform to the official numbering
system. It shall be the City Engineer’s responsibility to certify that those
numbers are correct and conforming.
(‘89 Code, § 19.10)
   (K)   The house numbering system shall be extended to include all land
annexed, and any nonconforming system in existence shall be made to conform to
the official numbering system.
(‘89 Code, § 19.11)
   (L)   (1)   Numbering of buildings multi-family dwellings.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and/or property manager(s)
of every multi-family structure in the city to identify such by use of letters
and numbers (numerals, not words or Roman numerals) which shall be not less
than three inches in height. Addresses shall be either reflectorized or clearly
contrasted from the background upon that which they are secured and shall be
visible from either direction of approach from the roadway.
         (b)   In the event more than one multi-family structure is located on
a single zoning lot or within a development bearing a common name, each
separate structure shall have a separate and distinct letter and/or number
(numerals, not words or Roman numerals). The letter and/or number shall be not
less than three inches in height and shall be reflectorized or clearly
contrasted from the background upon that which they are secured and shall be
visible from either direction of approach from the roadway or parking lot.
         (c)   In the event the multi-family structure contains a main arterial
hallway, each individual dwelling unit shall be distinctly identified by use of
a letter and/or number affixed or adjacent to each door.
         (d)   In the event the structure is not clearly visible from all
directions of approach from the roadway, the numbers (as described within this
division (L)(1)) shall be securely displayed on a post, or mailbox, or a
reflectorized street-like sign. Their location shall be permanently positioned
within the right-of-way adjacent to the driveway leading to the structure in a
manner visible from all directions of roadway approach.
      (2)   Numbering of buildings one and two-family dwellings.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the builder/developer, hereafter erected
in the city, to have secured on the structure prior to or at the time of
occupancy. The address thereof shall be numbers (numerals, not words or Roman
numerals) not less than three inches in height and shall be reflectorized or
clearly contrasted from the background upon that which they are secured and
shall be visible from either direction or approach from the roadway.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) of each dwelling existing
prior to or on March 24, 2003, in the city, to have secured on the structure
numbers (numerals, not words or Roman numerals) not less than three inches in
height which shall be reflectorized or clearly contrasted from the background
upon which they are secured and shall be visible from either direction of
approach from the roadway.
         (c)   In the event the structure is not clearly visible from all
directions of approach from the roadway, the numbers (as described in this
division (L)(1)) shall be securely displayed on a post, or mailbox or by use of
a reflectorized street-like sign. Their location shall be permanently
positioned within the right-of-way adjacent to the driveway leading to the
dwelling in a manner visible from all directions of roadway approach.
   (M)   In the event more than one apartment structure is located on a single
zoning lot or within a development bearing a common name, each separate
apartment structure shall have a separate and distinct number, meaning numerals
and not words or Roman numerals, and/or letter which shall be reflectorized or
the color of which must be clearly contrasted with the background upon which
they are placed not less than three inches high and visible from either
direction from the roadway, or on the doorway if the boxes are grouped, the
number of the apartment.
   (N)   In the event the structure is not visible from the roadway, the
numbers shall be placed on a post and/or mailbox located adjacent to the
driveway leading to the structure.
(‘89 Code, § 19.12)
   (O)   It shall be the duty of the owner of a house hereafter erected in the
city to have placed on the structure at the time of occupancy thereof, in a
place visible from either direction from the roadway, numbers, meaning numerals
and not words or Roman numerals, reflectorized or the color of which must be
clearly contrasted with the background upon which they are placed and not less
than three inches high, showing the number of the dwelling.
(‘89 Code, § 19.15)
   (P)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) of each dwelling existing on the
date of adoption of this section in the city to have placed on the structure
and or mailbox, in a place visible from either direction from the roadway,
numbers, meaning numerals and not words or Roman numerals, reflectorized or the
color of which must be clearly contrasted with the background upon which they
are placed and not less than three inches high showing the number of the
dwelling.
   (Q)   In the event the structure is not visible from the roadway, the
numbers shall be placed on a post and/or mailbox located adjacent to the
driveway leading to the structure.
(‘89 Code, § 19.13)
   (R)   (1)   When assigning addresses to lots fronting on state or U.S.
highways, the address shall be assigned using the local street where the local
name exists. Local street names, where established, are designated as follows:
 
State/U.S. Highway Location                                  Local Name
State Route 2      From Washington Street to State Route 49  Morthland Drive
State Route 130    From west city limits to Sturdy Road      Lincolnway
State Route 130    From Sturdy Road to U.S. Highway 30       Sturdy Road
U.S. Highway 30    From west city limits to east city limits Morthland Drive
 
      (2)   Where no local street name is established the address shall use the
state route or U.S. highway number as the street name.
(‘89 Code, § 19.14) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (S)   Any property owner given written notice of noncompliance with this
section shall have 30 days in which to comply. Failure to comply will result in
a violation of this code.
(‘89 Code, § 19.15)
   (T)   Any person, firm or corporation which shall violate any provision of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of $50 for each occurrence. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct violation of the provisions hereof, and shall be subject
to a fine each and every day the violation shall continue to exist.
(‘89 Code, § 19.16) (Am. Ord. 16-2003, passed 3-24-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMOKE DETECTOR. A detecting device which senses visible or invisible
particles of combustion. The detector shall bear a label or other
identification issued by an approved testing agency having a service for
inspection of materials and workmanship at the factory during fabrication and
assembly.
(‘89 Code, § 33.02)
   (B)   Every dwelling unit which is not owner occupied including, but not
limited to, apartment houses, hotels, motels, dormitories, as defined by the
Uniform Building Code, 1985 edition, as well as day care centers and homes,
nursery schools and homes, nursing and convalescent homes, or any other use
that is used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes, shall be equipped
with labeled, listed and approved smoke detectors adjacent to sleeping areas,
as required.
(‘89 Code, § 33.01)
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be installed and located in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendations.
(‘89 Code, § 33.03)
   (D)   Every owner, manager or agent of any dwelling unit which is not owner
occupied shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of all smoke
detectors required by any state or federal laws as well as this section unless
otherwise required by state or federal law.
(‘89 Code, § 33.04)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the owner,
manager or agent to remove or otherwise tamper with any smoke detector in any
building. Representatives of the city are specifically authorized to inspect
any smoke detector located within the city.
(‘89 Code, § 33.05)
   (F)   Any person may request a temporary relief from this section by
petitioning the City Board of Public Works and Safety. The petition shall state
the reason for the requested relief, the time period the proposed relief will
be required, a statement holding the city harmless for granting the relief and
an agreement to defend the city in any action arising from the granting of
relief. Upon recommendation of the Fire Chief and upon finding that good cause
has been shown by the petitioner, the City Board of Public Works and Safety may
grant the petitioner’s request for a period of up to two years.
(‘89 Code, § 33.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 HOUSE MOVING.
   (A)   No person shall move from one point to another within the city over,
upon or across any public street or alley within the city any house, building
or other structure without first having obtained a license to do so as
hereinafter provided.
(‘89 Code, § 42.01)
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain a license shall pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer the sum of $50. The Clerk-Treasurer shall, thereupon, issue to the
applicant a license for a period of one year from the time of issuance, which
license shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(‘89 Code, § 42.02)
   (C)   No license shall be issued until the applicant shall have filed a bond
of sureties, to be approved by the Mayor, in the sum of $10,000 conditioned
that the then applicant will save the city harmless from all damages occurring
to any person, or to the city streets or property, by reason of the occupancy
of the streets in moving any house, building or other structure.
(‘89 Code, § 42.03)
   (D)   Removal of buildings and occupancy of the streets of the city shall be
subject to the supervision and control of the Chief of Police.
(‘89 Code, § 42.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   New construction. Fees will be assessed based on the current building
value data (BVD) as provided by the International Code Council. The permit fee
is established by using the BVD table and a permit fee multiplier. The permit
fee multiplier is based on the total construction value within this
jurisdiction for the past year.
   (B)   Inspection fees.
 
Single family residence (SFR)           $100
Two-family dwellings                    $150
Multi-family dwellings                  $100 per structure plus $25 per unit
Commercial/industrial                   $200
Missed inspection fee                   $100
Re-inspection fee                       $25
Weekend/after business hours inspection
Prior approval by Building Commissioner $50
required
 
   (C)   Other fees.
 
No permit penalty                  50% of permit cost
Certificate of occupancy           $25
Temporary certificate of occupancy $25
Foundation release permits         $25
 
   (D)   Electrical upgrade permit.
 
Up to 200 amps    $35
Over 200 amps     $55
Temporary service $35
 
   (E)   All remodels, alterations and miscellaneous construction including but
not limited to decks, porches, pools, signs and fences. Permit fee based on
cost of project.
 
Permit fee      $5/$1,000 for first $10,000
                $3/$1,000 for $10,000+
Inspection fees 10% of permit fee
                $25 minimum and $175 maximum
 
   (F)   The Building Commissioner reserves the right to waive the applicable
building permit fees related to any projects performed on behalf of the city
and/or its various boards and commissions.
   (G)   Any builder, owner, or contractor requesting more than the 13 standard
inspections for residential new construction or 21 standard inspections for
commercial new construction, including, but not limited to, pre-pour
foundation, backfill, underground electrical, underground plumbing, electric
service, rough framing, rough plumbing, rough mechanical, rough electrical,
above ceiling, final plumbing, final electrical, final mechanical, final
structure, shall pay a fee of $25 for each additional inspection.
(Ord. 8-2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 33-2009, passed 10-26-09; Am. Ord. 14-
2013, passed 7-8-13)
§ 150.06 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR CERTAIN CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term CONTRACTOR shall have the
meaning as provided in §
150.01(D). Each building permit issued for the construction, reconstruction,
remodeling, renovation, repair, maintenance activity, or demolition of any
commercial building or structure, or residential building/development
containing at least five dwelling units, provided that the cost of the work
inclusive of materials and labor has a reasonable estimated value of more than
$250,000, shall be subject to the following additional conditions,
qualifications and requirements at all times during the contractor's
performance of work on the project:
      (1)   The contractor has not been excluded, barred or suspended from
submitting a bid or being awarded a contract to perform construction work by
any federal, state, or local government agency or instrumentality in the three
years preceding application for the building permit for violation of any law or
regulation requiring the provision of workers compensation insurance to persons
working for or under the control of the contractor as the law may require,
misclassifying employees as independent contractors, failure to pay, when due,
employer payroll taxes or employee income tax withholding, failure to comply
with wage and hour laws, prompt payment law, or prevailing wage laws;
      (2)   No court or governmental agency has found or determined in the
three years preceding application for the building permit, the contractor to be
in violation of any law or regulation requiring the provision of workers
compensation insurance to persons working for or under the control of the
contractor as the law may require, misclassifying employees as independent
contractors, failure to pay, when due, employer payroll taxes or employee
income tax withholding, failure to comply with wage and hour laws, prompt
payment law, or prevailing wage laws;
      (3)   The contractor must obtain and maintain appropriate workers
compensation insurance coverage for its employees as required by I.C. § 22-3-5-
1, et seq., and provide a certificate evidencing such insurance coverage to the
Building Commissioner to be maintained as a public record;
      (4)   The contractor must properly classify employees as employees rather
than independent contractors and treat them as employees for purposes of
complying with minimum wage and overtime compensation, worker's compensation
insurance coverage, unemployment taxes, social security taxes, and state and
federal income tax withholding;
      (5)   The contractor must maintain detailed written payroll records and
provide such records, upon written request to the Building Commissioner or his/
her designee, within five business days of the contractor's receipt of the
request;
      (6)   The contractor must comply with I.C. 22-2, et seq., with respect to
the timely payment of wages; and
      (7)   If required by law, the contractor must timely pay contributions to
the unemployment insurance benefit fund established by I.C. § 22-4-26-1.
   (B)   An owner of property who applies for a permit covered by this section
shall use his or her best efforts to require that all contractors performing
construction work on the property comply with the foregoing requirements of
this section. Consistent with §
150.01(O), the Building Commissioner may suspend or revoke the registration of
any contractor upon a determination that the contractor failed to comply with
any one or more of the requirements in division (A) of this section. Upon
suspension or revocation of the contractor's registration, contractor shall
cease all work until further notice by the Building Commissioner. The Building
Commissioner may withdraw the suspension or revocation of the contractor's
registration when he or she determines that all violations by the contractor
have been satisfactorily remedied. As provided in § 150.01(P), any contractor
that has its registration suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal
such determination with the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   Consistent with §
150.01(J), any person may file a complaint concerning the possible violation of
the requirements of division (A) of this section. Each such complaint shall be
made in writing, signed by the complaining party and affirmed upon the
complainant's personal knowledge or belief under penalty of perjury. Any
complaint may also include documents supportive of such complaint. The
complaint shall be filed with the office of the Building Commissioner who shall
cause due inquiry or investigation to be made by himself or herself or through
the Commissioner's designee. Each registered contractor agrees to produce
documents or records germane to the issues raised in a written complaint to the
Building Commissioner within five business days of the Commissioner's written
request. Any information provided shall not include any employee addresses,
social security number and date of birth. Absent any law to the contrary, the
complaint and any documents collected as part of the Building Commissioner's
investigation shall be considered Public Records under the Indiana Public
Records Act. In the event that the Building Commissioner determines the
contractor has failed to comply with any one or more of the requirements in
division (A) of this section, the Building Commissioner may suspend or revoke
the registration of the contractor. Upon suspension or revocation of the
contractor's registration, contractor shall cease all work until further notice
by the Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner may withdraw the
suspension or revocation of the contractor's registration when he or she
determines that all violations by the contractor have been satisfactorily
remedied. As provided in §
150.01(P), any contractor that has its registration suspended or revoked shall
have the right to appeal such determination with the Board of Public Works and
Safety. In addition, the person who filed the complaint may also appeal the
decision of the Building Commissioner to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
Any appeal must be received by the Building Commissioner within 30 days of the
decision of the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the matter will be considered by the
Board of Public Works and Safety at a public meeting where interested parties
will be given an opportunity to speak and submit evidence. Pending review by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, any suspension or revocation of the
contractor's registration shall remain in place consistent with division (B) of
this section. If the Board finds that one or more violations have occurred, the
Board may suspend or revoke the registration of the contractor and shall turn
over any documents obtained in the matter to state or federal prosecutorial
authorities for further investigation or prosecution. In addition, if the Board
finds that the individual filing the complaint provided false or materially
misleading information and filed a complaint for the purpose of harassment or
other reasons inconsistent with this section, the Board may assess a fine in an
amount not to exceed $1,500 plus any actual expenses incurred by the city in
investigating the allegations in the complaint. The Board may also direct the
City Attorney to refer the matter to the Porter County Prosecutor for review.
   (E)   Pursuant to §
155.19, the Building Commissioner has the right to issue a stop-work order. If,
as part of the Building Commissioner's review of information under division (B)
of this section and/or a complaint under division (C) of this section, it is
determined that additional contractors that previously worked on the project or
are currently working on the project may also be in violation of division (A)
of this section, the Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order until
such time as assurances can be provided that additional violations of division
(A) of this section will not occur.
   (F)   A contractor found to have violated the conditions and requirements of
division (A) of this section may have its registration with the City of
Valparaiso revoked for a period not exceeding three years from the date of such
determination.
   (G)   Any contractor that has its registration revoked under division (F) of
this section may seek reinstatement of its registration upon expiration of the
term imposed by the Board of Public Works and Safety. Any reinstatement shall
be conditioned on the contractor providing payroll records, proof of insurance
and other documentation reasonably requested by the Building Commissioner for
each future project to ensure that the activities that caused the registration
revocation under division (F) of this section is not repeated.
(Ord. 16-2019, passed 8-12-19)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§§
150.15 et seq., does any act prohibited herein or fails to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner or
fails, neglects or refuses to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of the code, may be subject to a
fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this
Building Code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(‘89 Code, § 30.20) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
CHAPTER 151: TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Trailer parking restricted
   
151.03   Permit for temporary parking
   
151.04   Placement of trailers
   
151.05   Trailer camp permit required
   
151.06   Permit issuance, expiration, removal and renovation
   
151.07   Supplemental permits
   
151.08   Compliance with county and state regulations required
   
151.09   Conformity with zoning regulations
   
151.10   Trailer camp site requirements
   
151.11   Trailer camp driveways
   
151.12   Locations
   
151.13   Trailer camp drainage and grading
   
151.14   Trailer camp water supply
   
151.15   Trailer camp sanitation facilities
   
151.16   Trailer camp garbage receptacles
   
151.17   Trailers not to be permanently fixed
   
151.18   Manager required
   
151.19   Register required
   
151.20   Interpretation and application
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle used or designed for living or sleeping
purposes and intended or designed to be equipped with wheels or similar device
for purposes of transportation from place to place, being either self-propelled
or otherwise.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any plot of ground where accommodations are provided for two
or more trailers.
   TRAILER SITE.  The area occupied or to be occupied by one trailer and one
automobile in a trailer camp.
(‘89 Code, § 75.01)
§ 151.02 TRAILER PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park, place or locate a trailer in any location within the
city for a period exceeding 48 hours except as follows:
   (A)   A trailer may be parked in a trailer camp as provided for in this
chapter.
   (B)   One trailer may be parked by special permit upon the premises of an
occupied dwelling for a period not exceeding two weeks.
   (C)   A trailer not over 30 feet in length and 8 feet in width and not
actually occupied may be seasonally stored by the trailer owner on his or her
own property or upon the property of another.
(‘89 Code, § 75.02)
§ 151.03 PERMIT FOR TEMPORARY PARKING.
   (A)   A special permit for the parking of a trailer on occupied dwelling
premises shall be secured from the County Health Department within two days
after the trailer is first parked. The permit shall be obtained by the owner or
lessee of the occupied premises. An owner or lessee shall not be granted more
than two special permits in any 12-month period.
   (B)   The person applying for a permit shall first satisfy the County Health
Department that reasonable accommodations for water and toilet facilities have
been made available to the occupants of the trailer.
(‘89 Code, § 75.03)
§ 151.04 PLACEMENT OF TRAILERS.
   A trailer parked pursuant to §
151.02(B) or (C) shall be so placed that the same will comply with Ord. 3 of
1951, as amended, commonly known as the Zoning Ordinance, with respect to
setback lines for accessory buildings in the district where the same is placed.
(‘89 Code, § 75.04)
§ 151.05 TRAILER CAMP PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall establish, maintain or operate a trailer camp without
first applying for and receiving from the County Health Department a permit.
   (B)   Each original application for a trailer camp permit shall be in
writing upon a form provided by the County Health Department. It shall state
the name and address of the applicant, a description of the property, and shall
be accompanied by plans, in duplicate and drawn to scale, showing clearly the
extent and area to be used for trailer camp purposes. It shall show the number
of trailers to be accommodated, the site upon which each trailer shall be
located, the location of proposed driveways, the location of all proposed
sanitary facilities, the plan for sewage disposal, water supply and lighting
and any other information as the County Health Department may require not less
than 30 days before the trailer camp is used.
   (C)   If the application and the plans and specifications meet with the
provisions of this chapter, the County Health Department shall place a stamp of
approval thereon and return a copy to the applicant. The Engineering Department
shall then issue a building permit for the construction of the necessary
facilities.
(‘89 Code, § 75.05)
§ 151.06 PERMIT ISSUANCE, EXPIRATION, REMOVAL AND RENOVATION.
   (A)   The County Health Department, upon notification by the applicant that
the construction of facilities has been completed, shall inspect the trailer
camp and, if the provisions of this chapter have been fully complied with,
issue a permit. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place within the
trailer camp.
(‘89 Code, § 75.06)
   (B)   All permits issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period of
one year from date of issuance, at which time the permit may be renewed for a
one-year period, without filing of plans and specifications.
(‘89 Code, § 75.07)
   (C)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked for due cause
after a hearing before the County Health Department. There shall be at least
five days notice of the hearing given to owner or permittee, his or her agent
or representative by personal service upon him or her.
(‘89 Code, § 75.09)
§ 151.07 SUPPLEMENTAL PERMITS.
   A supplemental permit for any proposed alterations, changes, extensions,
enlargements or rebuilding in any trailer camp shall be applied for and its
issuance prosecuted in the same manner as provided for in the original permit,
except the expiration date shall coincide with that of the existing unexpired
permit.
(‘89 Code, § 75.08)
§ 151.08 COMPLIANCE WITH COUNTY AND STATE REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, maintain or operate a trailer camp without
complying with any rules or regulations of the State Health Department or
County Health Department.
(‘89 Code, § 75.10)
§ 151.09 CONFORMITY WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   No trailer camp shall be established, operated or maintained in any district
except as designated in the zoning regulations of the city.
(‘89 Code, § 75.11)
§ 151.10 TRAILER CAMP SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   Each trailer site reserved for the accommodation of one trailer shall
contain not less than 1,250 square feet, exclusive of the area in the driveway
bordering the trailer site, and exclusive of the buildings. Each trailer site
shall be clearly defined by proper markers at each corner.
(‘89 Code, § 75.12)
§ 151.11 TRAILER CAMP DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways providing access to trailer sites shall be not less than 12 feet
in width and shall have unobstructed access to a public street or alley. The
surface of driveways shall be properly graded, maintained and dust-proofed.
(‘89 Code, § 75.13)
§ 151.12 LOCATIONS.
   Trailers shall be so arranged upon their respective sites as not to be
within 17 feet of any other trailer. No trailer shall be located within 20 feet
of any property line.
(‘89 Code, § 75.14)
§ 151.13 TRAILER CAMP DRAINAGE AND GRADING.
   Every trailer camp shall be established upon premises which are well drained
and properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of foreign or casual
waters.
(‘89 Code, § 75.15)
§ 151.14 TRAILER CAMP WATER SUPPLY.
   Approved water for drinking and domestic purposes shall be made available
through a pipe distribution system at each trailer camp. There shall be at
least one water faucet within 200 feet of any trailer site. The use of dipping
vessels or common cups is prohibited.
(‘89 Code, § 75.16)
§ 151.15 TRAILER CAMP SANITATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   For every group of ten trailer sites or fraction thereof, one flush
tank water closet, one urinal stall and one wash basin for men, and one flush
tank water closet and one wash basin for women shall be provided.
   (B)   For every group of 20 trailers or fraction thereof to be accommodated,
one shower or bathtub for men, one shower or bathtub for women, one slop sink
and one double compartment laundry tub shall be provided.
   (C)   The required sanitary facilities shall be within 200 feet of each
trailer site.
   (D)   The required sanitation facilities shall be equipped for lighting and
shall be lighted each night from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise.
(‘89 Code, § 75.17)
§ 151.16 TRAILER CAMP GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   Garbage and waste receptacles shall be provided and used at each trailer
camp, as directed by the County Health Department.
(‘89 Code, § 75.18)
§ 151.17 TRAILERS NOT TO BE PERMANENTLY FIXED.
   No trailer located in any trailer camp shall be removed from the wheels, set
upon the ground, or otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that
would prevent the ready removal of the trailer.
(‘89 Code, § 75.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 MANAGER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each trailer camp shall be constantly under the direct supervision of
a camp manager, who may be the owner or his or her agent or representative, who
at all times shall reside on the premises occupied by the trailer camp.
   (B)   The camp manager shall:
      (1)   Provide for the regular collection and removal of garbage or other
waste material;
      (2)   Prohibit the placing or storage and prevent the accumulation of
unsightly materials or vehicles of any kind;
      (3)   Prohibit the spilling of sink or other domestic waste water upon
the ground;
      (4)   Report immediately to the County Health Department all suspected
cases of communicable disease;
      (5)   Report immediately to the Police Department all acts of a
disorderly character committed within the trailer camp;
      (6)   Provide for regular cleaning, painting, repairing and disinfecting
of all buildings.
      (7)   Provide fences or other barriers where necessary to prevent
trespassing upon adjoining property and to insure the use of regular entrances
and exits.
      (8)   Perform any other duties as may be required by the Health
Department to maintain the trailer camp in a clean, orderly and sanitary
manner.
(‘89 Code, § 75.20)
§ 151.19 REGISTER REQUIRED.
   The camp manager shall keep a register containing the names of all persons
accommodated in each trailer camp and their home addresses, the license numbers
of all vehicles and the dates the persons and vehicles entered and left the
trailer camp. The register shall be made available to any police officer upon
request.
(‘89 Code, § 75.21)
§ 151.20 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the provisions
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public
health, safety, comfort, moral and general welfare.
(‘89 Code, § 75.22)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of Unified Development Ordinance by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Valparaiso Unified Development Ordinance and Zoning Map are
hereby adopted by reference and made part of this code the same as if set forth
in full herein. Copies are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for
public inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 8-2009, passed 3-9-09; Am. Ord. 9-2009, passed 3-9-09; Am. Ord. 22-2009,
passed 8-10-09; Am. Ord. 16-2010, passed 4-26-10; Am. Ord. 7, 2011, passed 2-
14-11; Am. Ord. 24-2011, passed 7-11-11; Am. Ord. 11, 2012, passed 3-12-12; Am.
Ord. 31, 2012, passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 38, 2014, passed 12-8-14; Am. Ord. 23,
2019, passed 10-14-19)
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
   
154.02   Amendments
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, as amended, that
is published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the City of Valparaiso, as if fully set out in
this chapter with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, prescribed
in §154.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2008, passed 5-12-08)
§ 154.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, is amended and
revised in the following respects:
   Amend Section 101.1 Title, to read:
      101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana, hereinafter referred to as "this
code".
   Amend Section 101.3 Intent, as follows:
   Delete the last sentence of Section 101.3.
   Amend Section 102.3 Application of other codes, as follows:
      102.3 Application of other codes: Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, or change of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the codes and standards listed in Chapter 8.
   Delete Section 103 Department of Property Maintenance.
   Amend Section 106.3 Prosecution, to read:
      106.3 Prosecution: In case of any unlawful acts the code official shall
institute an appropriate action of proceeding at law to exact the penalty
provided in Section 106.4. Also, the code official may ask the Valparaiso City
Attorney to proceed at law or in enquiry against the person responsible for the
violation for the purpose of ordering that person:
      1.   To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
      2.   To restrain, correct the erection, installation, maintenance,
repair, or alteration of such structure;
      3.   To require the removal of work in violation; or
      4.   To prevent the occupancy of the structure that is not in compliance
with provisions of this code.
   Amend Section 106.4 Violation penalties, to read:
      106.4 Violation penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code shall, upon admission to the violation or adjudication thereof by a
court, be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), and not
more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a first violation
of this code, and not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a second or subsequent
violation of this code. A second or subsequent violation is defined as a
violation which occurs after a person has paid a fine for a violation of this
code, has admitted to a violation of this code or has had a judgment entered
against the person for a violation of this code and is not limited to the
parcel upon which the first violation occurred. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   Amend Section 111.1 Application for appeal, to read:
      111.1 Application for appeal: Any person affected by a decision of the
code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right
to appeal to the City of Valparaiso Board of Public Works and Safety, provided
that a written application for appeal is filed within ten (10) days after the
decision, notice, or order was served. This Section shall not affect the right
of a code official to issue a citation. If the citation is processed in court,
the person shall not have the right to appeal to the Hearing Authority pursuant
to this Section 111.
   Amend Section 111.2 Membership of board, to read:
      111.2 Board of Public Works and Safety: The City of Valparaiso Board of
Public Works and Safety shall be the authority appointed to preside over all
appeal hearings.
   Delete Sections 111.2.1 to 111.2.5.
   Amend Section 111.3 Notice of meeting, to read:
      111.3 Notice of meeting: The hearing will be scheduled after the filing
of the appeal.
   Amend Section 111.4 Open hearing, to read:
      111.4 Open hearing: All hearings before the City of Valparaiso Board of
Public Works and Safety shall be open to the public. The appellant, the
appellant's representative, the code official, and any person whose interests
are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   Amend Section 111.4.1 Procedure, to read:
      111.4.1 Procedure: Each person appearing at the hearing is entitled to
present evidence, cross examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments.
   Delete Section 111.5 Postponed hearing.
   Amend Section 111.6 Board decision, to read:
      111.6 Decision: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City of Valparaiso
Board of Public Works and Safety may affirm the order or decision, rescind the
order or decision, or modify the order or decision.
   Amend Section 111.6.1 Records and copies, to read:
      111.6.1 Decision in writing: The decision of the City of Valparaiso Board
of Public Works and Safety will be reduced to writing and mailed to the
appellant and the code official.
   Amend Section 111.6.2 Administration, to read:
      111.6.2 Administration: The code official shall take action in accordance
with the decision of the City of Valparaiso Board of Public Works and Safety.
   Amend Section 201.3 Terms defined in other codes, to read:
      Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the Building
Code, Electric Code, Fire Code, Mechanical Code, or the Plumbing Code, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   Amend Section 202, Definitions, as follows:
   Add the following definition:
      Building Code: The Indiana Building Code, the Indiana Residential Code,
the Indiana Energy Conservation Code, or other such codes and ordinances
adopted by the State of Indiana and/or the City of Valparaiso for the
regulation of construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition,
location, occupancy, and maintenance of buildings or structures.
   Add the following definition:
      Electrical Code: The Indiana Electrical Code or other such electrical
codes and ordinances adopted by the State of Indiana and/or the City of
Valparaiso.
   Add the following definition:
      Fire Code: The Indiana Fire Code or other such fire codes and ordinances
adopted by the State of Indiana and/or the City of Valparaiso.
   Add the following definition:
      Mechanical Code: The Indiana Mechanical Code and the Indiana Fuel Gas
Code or other such mechanical codes and ordinances adopted by the State of
Indiana and/or the City of Valparaiso.
   Add the following definition:
   Plumbing Code: The Indiana Plumbing Code or other such plumbing codes and
ordinances adopted by the State of Indiana and/or the City of Valparaiso.
   Delete the definition of Rooming House.
   Insert Section 302.10 Prohibited Display, to read:
      302.10 Prohibited Display: No person shall keep, permit or allow any item
not originally designed or manufactured solely for outdoor use to be located on
any premises.
   Insert Section 302.11 Prohibited Front Yard Parking, to read:
      302.11 Prohibited Front Yard Parking: No person shall park any motor
vehicle on any front yard not designed and approved for parking. For purposes
of this Section, the front yard shall be defined as the area of private
property that is located between the public right-of-way and the front line of
the primary structure on that property. Parking of any motor vehicle within
this area is prohibited.
   Delete Section 303.2 Enclosures
   Amend Section 304.3 Premises identification, to read:
      304.3 Premises identification: Buildings shall have approved address
numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street
or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic or alphabet letters. Numbers shall
be a minimum of 3 inches high with a minimum stroke of 1/2 inch.
   Amend Section 304.14 Insect screens, to read:
      304.14 Insect screens: During the period from April 30 to October 15,
every door, window and other outside opening utilized or required for
ventilation purposes serving any structure containing habitable rooms, food
preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged, or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of
not less than 16 mesh per inch and every swinging door shall have a self-
closing device in good working condition.
      Exception: Screen doors shall not be required where other approved means,
such as air curtains or insect repellant fans are employed.
   Delete Section 304.18.1 Doors
   Delete Section 304.18.2 Windows
   Delete Section 304.18.3 Basement hatchways
   Amend Section 401.3 Alternative devices, to read:
      401.3 Alternative devices: In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the Building Code, and Mechanical Code shall be permitted.
   Amend the second sentence in Section 402.2 Common halls and stairways, to
read:
      Means of egress, including exterior stairways shall be illuminated in
accordance with the Building Code.
   Amend the second sentence in Section 505.1 General, to read:
      All kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers
shall be supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance
with the Plumbing Code.
   Amend Section 602.2 Residential occupancies, to read:
      602.2 Residential occupancies: Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68 degrees F. (20
degrees C.) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms in accordance
with the Building Code, and the Mechanical Code. Cooking appliances shall not
be used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
   Amend Section 602.3 Heat Supply, to read:
      602.3 Heat Supply: Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases, or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory, or
guestroom on terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants
thereof shall supply sufficient heat during the period from October 15 to April
30 to maintain the room temperatures of not less that 68 degrees F. (20 degrees
C.) during the hours between 6:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of each day and not less
than 65 degrees F. (16 degrees C.) during other hours.
   Add Section 602.3.1 Portable unvented heaters, to read:
      602.3 Portable unvented heaters. The use of listed portable unvented fuel
burning appliances shall be limited to supplemental heating in detached single
family residences. Exception: Upon approval of the Building Commissioner,
portable unvented fuel burning appliances may be permitted in any occupancy
during the construction process when such is necessary for the construction and
the use does not represent a hazard to life or property.
   Amend Section 602.3 Heat supply, Exception 1, to read:
      Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below the outdoor design
temperature required for locality by the Building Code and Mechanical Code, the
owner or operator shall not be required to maintain the minimum room
temperatures, provided that the heating systems is operating at full capacity,
with supply valves and dampers in a full open position.
   Amend Section 602.3 Heat supply, as follows:
   Delete Exception 2.
   Delete Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces.
   Amend Section 604.2 Service, to read:
      604.2 Service: The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance
with the Electric Code. Every dwelling shall be served by a main service that
is not less than 60 amperes, three wire.
   Amend Section 702.4 Emergency escape openings, to read:
      702.4 Emergency escape openings: Required emergency escape openings shall
be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
construction. Required emergency escape openings shall be operational from the
inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars, grilles, grates, or
similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency escape openings,
provided the installation complies with the Building Code.
   Amend Section 704.1 General, to read:
      704.1 General: All systems, devices and equipment to detect a Fire,
actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof
shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with
the Fire Code.
   Amend Section 704.2 Smoke alarms, to read:
      704.2 Smoke alarms: All systems, devices and equipment to detect smoke,
actuate an alarm, or suppress or control the movement of smoke or gases or any
combination thereof shall be installed and maintained in an operable condition
at all times in accordance with the Building Code and the Fire Code.
   Delete Section 704.3 Power source
   Delete Section 704.4 Interconnections
   Add Section 704.3 Tampering, to read:
      704.3 Tampering: Anyone tampering or interfering with the effectiveness
of any system, device or equipment to detect a fire, actuate an alarm, or
suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall be in violation of
this code.
   Add Section 705 Accumulations and Storage, to read:
      Section 705 ACCUMULATIONS AND STORAGE
      Section 705.1 Accumulations: Rubbish, garbage or other materials shall
not be stored or allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors,
windows, fire escapes or other means of egress.
      Section 705.2 Hazardous material: Combustible, flammable, explosive or
other hazardous materials, such as paints, volatile oils and cleaning fluids,
or combustible rubbish, such as wastepaper, boxes, and rags, shall not be
accumulated or stored unless such storage complies with the applicable
requirements of the Building Code and the Fire Code.
   Amend Chapter 8 Referenced Standards as follows:
   Delete the referenced standards and insert the following:
      The Indiana General Administrative Rules
      The Indiana Building Code
      The Indiana Residential Code
      The Indiana Electric Code
      The Indiana Fire Code
      The Indiana Fuel Gas Code
      The Indiana Mechanical Code
      The Indiana Plumbing Code
      The Indiana Swimming Pool Code
(Ord. 17-2008, passed 5-12-08; Am. Ord. 20, 2022, passed 9-12-22)
CHAPTER 155: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Establishment
   
155.05   Scope
   
155.06   Authority
   
155.07   Use of forms
   
155.08   Building permit required
   
155.09   Issuance of building permit; duration
   
155.10   Application for a building permit
   
155.11   Review of application
   
155.12   Compliance with other ordinances
   
155.13   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.14   Partial certificates of occupancy
   
155.15   Temporary certificates of occupancy
   
155.16   Inspections
   
155.17   Withhold issuance of permits
   
155.18   Permit revocation
   
155.19   Stop-work order
   
155.20   Right of appeal
   
155.21   Adoption of rules by reference
   
155.22   Lifting devices located within a private residence
   
155.23   Violations
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Building Code of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana,” and will be
referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(‘89 Code, § 30.01) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of Valparaiso, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(‘89 Code, § 30.02) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, CLASS 1 STRUCTURE has the
following definition:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public.
            2.   Three or more tenants.
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (a) of this
definition.
         (c)   Outdoor stage equipment.
         (d)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in divisions
(3) through (6) of this definition.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) of this definition includes a structure that
contains three or more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or
other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) does not include a structure that is intended to be
or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, CLASS 2 STRUCTURE has the
following definition:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a) of
this definition, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any
part of the outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, MANUFACTURED HOME has the
meaning set forth in 42 USC 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This
definition is as follows: Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in
one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more
in width or forty body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is
three hundred twenty or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except
that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of
this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under
this 42 USC 5401 et seq. and except that such term shall not include any self-
propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity;
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles;
suspended between two or more parts of a building or between two or more
buildings.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.04 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the applicable laws of the State of Indiana, an Office of
Building Commissioner is established for the purpose of implementing and
enforcing this chapter. Hereafter throughout this chapter the terms Building
Commissioner and Building Inspector shall have the same meaning and effect.
(‘89 Code, § 30.03) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.05 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(‘89 Code, § 30.05) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.06 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter, all variances granted in
accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11, and all orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
Whenever in this chapter it is provided that anything must be done on approval
of or subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, this will give the
Building Commissioner only the discretion of determining whether this chapter
has been complied with. No such provision shall be construed as giving
discretionary powers as to what this chapter shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce this code in an arbitrary
or discriminatory manner.
(‘89 Code, § 30.04) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.07 USE OF FORMS.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the power and authority to prepare and
publish forms to be used in the operation of his office and such forms shall
have the same force and effect as if a part of this Chapter. The Building
Commissioner must have all forms used in the operation of his or her office
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Valparaiso,
Indiana, prior to the use of such forms.
(‘89 Code, § 30.22) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.08 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(‘89 Code, § 30.08) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.09 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT; DURATION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person
after the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable
fee, provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (B)   If the work or activity for which a building permit has been issued
pursuant to this section has not been commenced within 90 days from the date of
its issuance, the permit shall no longer be of any force or effect. Should any
person or persons desire to continue the activity on a job site, a new
application with accompanying fees must be made and paid prior to any beginning
of construction.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 27-2005, passed 6-13-05)
§ 155.10 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, a plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs, sidewalks, easements and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the Sate Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by §
150.05.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.11 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage, and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, including industrialized
building, mobile structure or manufactured home:
      (1)   Are protected against flood damage,
      (2)   Are designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage, and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(‘89 Code, § 30.12) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.12 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for building permits
any fees prescribed in any of the other ordinances shall be paid.
(‘89 Code, § 30.09) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.13 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this code shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this code. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Commissioner.
(‘89 Code, § 30.17) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.14 PARTIAL CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   The Building Commissioner may issue a partial certificate of occupancy for
part of a building, structure or site prior to the occupancy of the entire
building, structure or site provided that such portions of the building,
structure or site are in conformity with the provisions of this and all other
pertinent ordinances. Partial certificates of occupancy will not be issued on
one and two family dwellings.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.15 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
    The Building Commissioner may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy
after the building or structure is fully completed and ready for occupancy and
provided further that such building, structure, and/or site in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter and all other pertinent sections. A request for
a temporary certificate of occupancy shall be submitted on a form prepared by
the Building Commissioner and assessed the fee established in §
150.05.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 20, 2008, passed 5-12-08)
§ 155.16 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained. The Building Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized representatives, upon presentation of proper credentials, may at any
reasonable time go in, upon, around or about the premises where any structure
subject to the provisions of this Building Code or to the rules of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission is located for the purposes of
inspection and investigation of such structure. That inspection and
investigation may be made before and/or after construction on the project is
completed for the purposes of determining whether the structure meets building
standards and procedures, and ascertaining whether the construction and
procedures have been accomplished in a manner consistent with the Building Code
and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(‘89 Code, § 30.14) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.17 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit or an
obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds), permit fees owed pursuant to §
150.05, fees or fines pertinent to any other applicable ordinance, or
inspection fees owed pursuant to §
150.05 to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the
issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is
satisfied. Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.18 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement of misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with the Building Code.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.19 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to the person doing the construction and
to the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this Building Code or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of the Building Code or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (C)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this Building Code.
(‘89 Code, § 30.16) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.20 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. The
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this Building Code may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the city
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety, or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this Building Code.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. The city,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, has established by ordinance that a person shall
have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s decision first through the
Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Valparaiso.
(‘89 Code, § 30.20) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.21 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13 – Building Codes;
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
      (2)   Article 14 – Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 – Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 – Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 – Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 – Indiana Energy Conservation;
      (7)   Article 20 – Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 – Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 – Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code;
      (10)   Article 25 – Indiana Fuel Gas Code;
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this Building Code. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(‘89 Code, § 30.06) (Am. Ord. 64, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-
05)
§ 155.22 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a,2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (4)   Section 6. Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a,2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.23 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, including fences, in the City of Valparaiso or cause or permit
the same to be done contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(‘89 Code, § 30.19) (Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 2-28-05)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, does any act prohibited herein or fails to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner or
fails, neglects, or refuses to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this code, may be subject to
a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in the
city code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 20, 2008, passed 5-12-08)
CHAPTER 156: UNSAFE BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
156.01   Adoption of state statutes
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Enforcement authority
   
156.04   Hearing authority
   
156.05   Unsafe building
   
156.06   Standards for reconstruction, alteration, repair, demolition
   
156.07   Compliance required
   
156.08   Unsafe Building Fund
   
156.09   Bids and contracts
   
156.99   Penalty
156.01 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference
as the City of Valparaiso Unsafe Building and Premises Law. That law and the
provisions of this chapter shall govern all proceedings within the city for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings and/or premises. In the
event that provisions of this chapter and I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28
conflict, the provisions of the state statute shall control.
(‘89 Code, 31.02) (Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, in addition to the definitions provided for
in the state statute, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY . The Building Commissioner and Code Administrator for
the City of Valparaiso.
   HEARING AUTHORITY . The Board of Works for the City of Valparaiso.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST . The definition set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is
hereby incorporated by reference, as if copied in full.
(‘89 Code, 31.06) (Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.03 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Enforcement Authority is hereby authorized to administer and proceed
under the provisions of this chapter in the inspection of buildings and/or
premises, and in ordering the repair and/or removal of any buildings or
premises found to be unsafe as specified in I.C. 36-7-9-4, as amended, or as
specified hereinafter.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
Statutory reference:
   For the types of actions permitted under orders of the Enforcement
Authority, see I.C. 36-7-9-5
156.04 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The Hearing Authority is hereby authorized to conduct hearings in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-9-7.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.05 UNSAFE BUILDING.
   The definition of unsafe buildings and unsafe premises contained in I.C. 36-
7-9-4 is supplemented as follows, to provide minimum standards for building
conditions and/or maintenance within the jurisdiction of the City of Valparaiso
Building Commissioner and Code Administrator:
   (A)   Any building, structure, and/or premises that has any or all of the
unsafe conditions or defects described hereinafter shall be deemed an unsafe
building and/or unsafe premises, provided that such condition(s) or defect(s)
exist to the extent that life, health, property and safety of the general
public or its occupants are endangered;
   (B)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not arranged as required so as to be in
compliance with the applicable Indiana State Building Code then in force;
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than 1-1/2 times the working stress or
stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location as
established by the applicable Indiana State Building Code then in force;
   (D)   Whenever any portion of a building, structure and/or premises has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood or any other cause to such extent that
the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was
prior to catastrophe and less than the minimum requirements for new building
codes of similar structure, purpose or location, as established by the
applicable Indiana State Building Code then in force;
   (E)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance of any building or
structure is likely to fail to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and
thereby injure persons or damage property;
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure or any member
appurtenance or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient
strength or stability or is not anchored, attached or fashioned in place so as
to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of 1/2 of that specified for new
buildings or similar structures, purpose or location, without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings as established by the applicable
Indiana State Building Code then in force;
   (G)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure has wracked, warped,
buckled or settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions
have materially less resistance to wind or earthquakes than is required in case
of similar new construction;
   (H)   Whenever any building or structure or any portion thereof because of:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay,
      (2)   Faulty construction,
      (3)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building,
      (4)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation, or
      (5)   Any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse;
   (I)   Whenever, for any reason, the building, structure or premises or any
portion thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or vertical structural members lift, lean
or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity does not fall beside the middle 1/3 of the base;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members or 50%
damage or deterioration of its supporting members enclosing outside walls or
coverings;
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damage by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
      (1)   An attractive nuisance to children, or
      (2)   Freely accessible to persons without a substantial property
interest;
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to any building or structure provided by building regulations and ordinances of
the City of Valparaiso or any law of the State of Indiana relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 60% of the:
      (1)   Strength;
      (2)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
      (3)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in
the case of a newly constructed building of the like, area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
   (O)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, default, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the Enforcement Authority
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
   (P)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure; or
   (Q)   Whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess
of six months, so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an
attractive nuisance or a hazard to the public.
(‘89 Code, 31.07) (Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.06 STANDARDS FOR RECONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION, REPAIR, DEMOLITION.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or demolition of
any building, structure and/or premises shall be performed in a good,
workmanlike manner, according to acceptable standards and practices in the
trade.
   (B)   The provisions of the rules, regulations and statutes pertaining to
construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and one and two-family dwellings
obligated by the Fire Prevention and building Safety Commission shall be
accepted standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
chapter or orders issued pursuant to this chapter by the Enforcement Authority.
(‘89 Code, 31.08) (Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.07 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether it is owner, lessee, sublessee, or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure or
premises, or cause or permit the same to be done contrary to, or in violation
of, any of the provisions of this chapter or any order issued pursuant to this
chapter by the Enforcement Authority.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.08 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority shall establish in its operating budget a
fund designated as the Unsafe Building Fund (hereinafter referred to as the
“Fund”).
   (B)   The Fund may receive appropriations from the Common Council of the
City of Valparaiso or any other governmental unit, as well as any funds
received from settlements or obligations, judgments, proceeds of bond money
received from civil penalties, or other sources permitted under I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (C)   The Fund shall be used for any and all costs incurred by the
Enforcement Authority and/or the Hearing Authority, its agents or assigns,
including but not limited to, costs incurred under I.C. 36-7-9-14(c).
   (D)   The Enforcement Authority shall prepare an annual report to be filed
with the Common Council of the City of Valparaiso reporting the source and use
of all monies within the Fund.
(‘89 Code, 31.09) (Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
156.09 BIDS AND CONTRACTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the City of Valparaiso Board of Works to
administer any bids for demolition contracts awarded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 3-24-03)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, does any act prohibited herein or fails to perform any duty
lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building Commissioner or
fails, neglects, or refuses to obey any lawful order given by the Building
Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this code, may be subject to
a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in the
municipal code of the city.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 21, 2008, passed 5-12-08)
CHAPTER 157: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Historic Preservation Commission establishment and organization
   
157.04   Powers and duties of Historic Preservation Commission
   
157.05   Historic districts, conservation districts and guidelines
   
157.06   Interim protection
   
157.07   Interim protection for historic structures outside historic districts
   
157.08   Certificate of appropriateness
   
157.09   Staff approvals
   
157.10   Visual compatibility
   
157.11   Preservation of historical and architectural character upon alteration
or relocation mandated
   
157.12   Appeal provisions
   
157.13   Maintenance
   
157.14   Relationship with zoning districts
   
157.15   Paint colors
   
157.16   Interested parties
   
157.17   Enforcement; violations; judicial review
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the education, cultural and
general welfare of the citizens of Valparaiso and to insure the harmonious and
orderly growth and development of the municipality; to maintain established
residential neighborhoods in danger of having their distinctiveness destroyed;
to enhance property values and attract new residents; to ensure viability of
the traditional downtown area and to encourage tourism within the city.
   (B)   It is deemed essential by the city that qualities relating to our
history and harmonious outward appearance of its structures needs to be
preserved. This purpose is advanced through the restoration and preservation of
historic areas and buildings, the construction and compatible new buildings
where appropriate, and the maintenance and insurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design. It is the intention of the city
through this chapter to provide a method to preserve and protect historic and
architecturally worthy buildings, structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes
and neighborhoods which impart a distinct aesthetic quality to the city and
serve as visible reminders of its historic heritage.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the following meaning unless a contrary
meaning is required by the context or is specifically prescribed. Words in the
present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. The word PERSON includes a firm,
partnership, a limited liability company, or a corporation, as well as an
individual. Terms not defined in this section shall have the meanings
customarily assigned to them.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure, or site within a historic district.
   CITY. The City of Valparaiso, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   OUTSTANDING. The "O" classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance that is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places.
Outstanding resources can be of local, state, or national importance.
      (2)   NOTABLE. A classification of "N" means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is above average in its importance. A
notable structure may be eligible for the National Register.
      (3)   CONTRIBUTING. A "C" classification means the property is at least
40 years old, but does not meet the criteria for an "O" or "N" classification.
Such resources are important to the density or continuity of the area's
historic fabric. Contributing structures can be listed in the National Register
only as part of a historic district.
      (4)   NON-CONTRIBUTING. Property classified as "NC" is not included in an
inventory unless it is located within the boundaries of a historic district.
Such properties may be less than 50 years old, or they may be older structures
that have been altered in such a way that have been altered in such a way they
have lost their historic character, or they may be otherwise incompatible with
their historic surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing in
the National Register.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building, structure,
or site located in a historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, object, spaces, or sites,
the boundaries of which are described or delineated on a map approved in an
ordinance adopted under Title 15 of this code of ordinances.
   INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The City Council;
      (3)   The City Plan Commission;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted under Title XV of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   An owner or occupant of property located in a historic district
established by an ordinance adopted Title XV of this code of ordinances;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; or
      (7)   The state historic preservation officer designated under I.C.14-3-
3.4-10.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Criteria, locally developed, which identify local
design concerns in an effort to assist property owners in maintaining the
character of the designated district or buildings during the process of
rehabilitation or new construction.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district delineated on the map establishing the
boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA. An area in a historic district delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
secondary area is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent,
primary area.
   STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e.g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches, etc.) use of plant materials such as
trees and shrubs and the setback, mass and proportion of those buildings which
enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
157.10.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as the
"Commission").
   (B)   Composition. The Commission shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Mayor, who shall be residents of the city. The members of the
Commission should include professionals in the disciplines of architecture
history and planning, if such professionals are available in the community.
Nonvoting advisory members may be appointed to the Commission by the Mayor as
deemed appropriate. Commission members and nonvoting advisory members shall
serve without compensation except for reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties, unless otherwise provided by the Common Council
through the annual salary ordinance.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall serve for a term of three years; however
the initial term of members shall be one for a period of one year, two for a
period of two years and three for a period of three years in order to provide
for staggered terms. The term for any nonvoting advisory shall be three years.
Any vacancy that occurs during the term of a member shall be filled within 90
days and shall be for the duration of the remaining term of such member.
   (D)   Commission administrator. The Office of the City Planner is designated
to serve as ex-officio administrator of the Commission. The administrator shall
perform such duties as may be required by the Commission and may call upon
other members of the city administration for assistance in performing the
duties directed by the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairman,
Vice-Chairman and Treasurer, who shall serve for one year and who may be re-
elected.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this title for
the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place of
regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public in accordance
with Indiana's Open Door Law and a public record shall be kept of the
Commission's resolutions, proceedings and actions. The Commission shall hold
regular meetings at least monthly, except when it has no business pending.
Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the Commission and its
rules.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual quality in a
historic district, which include, but are not limited to viewsheds, landscapes
and streetscapes of historic importance. The Commission may not consider
details of design, interior arrangements, or building features, are not subject
to public view, and may not make any requirement except for the purpose of
preventing development, alteration, or demolition in the historic district
obviously incongruous with historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct surveys and establish historic districts
in accordance with the provisions of §
157.05.
   (C)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily
accessible to the general public.
   (D)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purpose.
   (E)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (F)   The Commission through this chapter may:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant bequest, devise, or lease any real
or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for carrying out
the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property; and
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish procedures that the Commission must
follow in acquiring and disposing of property.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.05 HISTORIC DISTRICTS, CONSERVATION DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   It is hereby acknowledged that a Historic Preservation District
currently exists in the city as previously established by the city and the then
existing Downtown Business Association. It is further acknowledged that there
are a variety of properties located in the city that are on the National
Historic Register and/or are eligible for such designation. This chapter shall
not be interpreted to have any impact on the existence of such district
registered properties or eligible properties.
   (B)   All recommendations for the establishment of a historic district shall
be in the form of a written report and must be based on the criteria outlines
in this section. A recommendation for establishing a historic district may be
initiated from either of the following two sources:
      (1)   Based on its survey, the Commission may draw and submit historic
district maps for City Council approval.   
      (2)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish a historic
district which includes their property may petition the Commission to consider
drawing and submitting a map or maps of said property to the City Council for
its approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to be met
before it considers a petition.
   (C)   Conservation districts. The Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may provide that the establishment of a historic district shall occur
in two phases. During the first phase which continues for a period of three
years from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness
is required for the following activities: the demolition of any building; the
moving of any building; and any new construction of a principal building or
accessory building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (1)   At the expiration of the initial three year period, the first phase
of a conservation district continues and the second phase does not become
effective if a majority of the property owners in the district object to the
appropriateness be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration, or maintenance involving
exterior color changes;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and
fences, if along public ways;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alterations, or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (2)   The objections of a majority of the property owners must be
received by the Commission not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days
before the third anniversary of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (D)   Commission preparation of historic district maps. In order to
establish a historic district, the Commission shall first prepare a map
describing the district in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The map shall be based on a survey conducted by the Commission,
which identifies historic buildings, structures and sites located within the
city.
      (2)   A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property
containing a single building, structure or site.
      (3)   The map may divide the district into primary and secondary areas as
follows:
         (a)   Primary area. The principal area of historic and architectural
significance.
         (b)   Secondary area. An area adjacent to a primary area, which has a
visual relationship to the primary area and could affect the preservation of
the primary area. The purpose of designating a secondary area to assure its
compatibility and harmony with an adjacent primary area.
   (E)   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map all buildings,
structures, and sites within each historic district described on the map.
Buildings, structures, and sites shall be classified as historic or non-
historic. Historic buildings, structures and sites must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. The
Commission shall further classify and designate all buildings and structures
within a proposed historic district as follows: outstanding; notable; or
contributing. Non-historic buildings, structures and sites are those not
classified on the map as historic. In lieu of other classifications, the
Commission may devise its own system of further classification of historic
buildings, structures and sites.
   (F)   City Council approval of maps of historic districts. Before a historic
district is established and the building classifications take effect, the map
setting forth the district's boundaries and building classifications must be
submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by, the City Council.
   (G)   Recording the fact of designation. The map establishing boundaries of
a historic district may be recorded in the Office of the Porter County
Recorder.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.06 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the City Council under §
157.05, the Commission may declare one or more buildings or structures that are
classified and designated as historic on the map to be under interim
protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building, structure,
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission
shall, by personal delivery or first class mail, provide the owner or occupant
of the building, structure or site with a written notice of the declaration.
The written notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building, structure
or site under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure or site under
interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under the interim protection under
division (A) of this section remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the City Council.
   (D)   While a building, structure, or site is under interim protection under
this section:
      (1)   The building, structure or site may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building, structure or site may not
be conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration.
   (E)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the period of interim protection, provided the proposed change
meets the criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings in §
157.08(D) and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for the building,
structure or site, but the certificate of appropriateness shall have no effect,
and no action may be taken pursuant thereto, unless the map including the
building, structure or site is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.07 INTERIM PROTECTION FOR HISTORIC STRUCTURES OUTSIDE HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, interim report refers to the Porter County
Interim Report – The Indiana Historic Sites and Structure Inventory as
originally complied and as may, from time to time, be amended.
   (B)   No demolition permit shall be issued for any structure outside a
historic district which is designated in the interim report as outstanding,
notable, or contributing under the following conditions:
      (1)   The Building Commissioner's Office shall give, within three
business days of the application for demolition permit, the commission notice
of the application providing the commission with the name, address and
telephone number of the owner of the structure. Notice commission shall provide
the Building Department of the city with the current address and name of the
individual representing the commission, to who notice should be given. The
demolition permit will be placed on the agenda for public input and discussion
at the next scheduled meeting of the Historic Preservation Commission.
      (2)   The owner not being demolition any sooner than 45 days from the
date of mailing of notice to the Commission.
      (3)   The Historic Commission, upon application by the owner, shall place
upon the property where the structure is located in plain public view, a sign,
as provided by the city [meeting the standards set forth in
Chapter 152] informing the public of the proposed demolition of building. Said
notice shall set forth the address and phone number of the City Building
Commissioner's Office and shall be in such form as approved by the Commission.
The City Building Commissioner's Office shall notify the Commission of the name
and phone number of any individual making an inquiry.
   (C)   The 45 day delay period provided for in division (B) of this section
may be waived by the Board of Works and Public Safety upon the finding of an
emergency based upon a danger to the public health, welfare, or safety, or upon
a finding that the structure has been substantially destroyed by fire, weather
or other causes.
   (D)   It is solely the intent and purpose of the provision to give the
Commission sufficient time to notify the owner of the historic value of the
property and to seek preservation of the site. The Commission shall have no
authority to prevent the issuance of the permit after the 45 day notice. This
division shall not apply to structures within a historic district.
   (E)   For the properties identified in the interim, those that have an
"outstanding" (O) or "notable" (N) rating will be required to wait 60 days, due
to the historic and architectural significance to the property. These
properties have an O rating because they are of importance at local, state or
national levels. Those that have an N rating are above average in their
importance and maybe eligible for National Register.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.08 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness (COA) required. A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a permit is issue for,
or work is begun on, any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building or structure;
         (b)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of any historic
building or any part of or appurtenance to such a building, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving, and signs by additions, reconstruction,
alteration, or maintenance involving exterior color change if cited by
individual ordinance;
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways;
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction.
alteration and/or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within a conservation district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness. An application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission or
its designee on forms provided by that office. All applications shall be
subject to the rules and requirements established by the Commission. Rules may
include, but are not limited to, filing deadlines and application requirements
such as sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions, or other information,
which the Commission requires to make a decision.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificate of appropriateness. The Commission
may approve or deny certificates of appropriateness for any actions covered by
this title. If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is approved
by the Commission, or is not acted on by the Commission within 30 days after
its filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. The Commission may
grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the applicant agrees to it. The
Commission must report its findings and the reasons for its decision in written
form, and supply the applicant with a copy of its report. A copy of the
certificate of appropriateness must be submitted with the application for a
building or demolition permit; no building or demolition permit shall be issued
unless a copy of the certificate of appropriateness is provided by the
applicant with the application.
   (D)   Criteria for considering the effect of actions on historic buildings.
The Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance, or moving of a historic building, structure, site or
any part of an appurtenance to such building or structure, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs shall require that such work be
done in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure, or appurtenance. In considering historic and
architectural character, the Commission shall consider, among other things, the
following:
      (1)   Purposes of this title;
      (2)   Historic and architectural value and significance of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations, details,
materials, or other non-original elements, which may be of a different style
and construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material color, style and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenance or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including, for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
157.10(B); and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.09 STAFF APPROVALS.
   (A)   The Commission may authorize the staff of the Commission, on behalf of
the Commission, to grant or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   The Commission shall specify by rule the types of applications for
certificates of appropriateness that the staff of the Commission is authorized
to grant or deny. The staff may not be authorized to grant or deny an
application for a certificate of appropriateness for the following:
      (1)   The demolition of a building, structure or site.
      (2)   The moving of a building or structure.
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure.
      (4)   The construction of a new building or structure.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.10 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   For new construction, contemporary design, and non-historic buildings.
To preserve and encourage the integrity of historic buildings, structures,
sites, monuments, streetscapes, and neighborhoods and to ensure their
compatibility with any new work, the construction of a new building or
structure, and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, color change, major
maintenance, or repair conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any
non-historic building, structure, or appurtenance within the primary area must
be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building
material, texture, color and location on a lot compatible with other buildings
in the historic district and with places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility within historic primary
areas. Within the primary area of a historic district, new buildings,
structures, and appurtenance that are moved, reconstructed, materially altered,
repaired, or changed in color, must be visually compatible with buildings and
places to which they are visually related generally in terms of the following
visual compatibility factors:
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building's front façade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Relationship of solids to voids in front façades. The relationship
of a building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related.
      (4)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.  The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
related.
      (5)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Relationship of materials, textures and color. The relationship of
materials, textures and color of the façade of a building must be visually
related.
      (7)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (8)   Wall of continuity. Appurtenance of a building or site, such as
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades,
must form cohesive walls of enclosure along street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings and places to which it is
visually related.
      (9)   Scale of the building. The size of a building and the building mass
of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings and places to which it
is visually related.
      (10)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character, or non-directional character.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.11 PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION
OR RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historic and architectural character of
the building, structure, or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
of this section.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.12 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic buildings that are
important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the city
and to afford the city, historic organizations, property owners, and other
interested persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the
preservation of these buildings.
   (B)   If the Commission denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness for the demolition of a building, structure, or site, a
demolition permit may be issued by other agencies and a building, structure, or
site may be demolished, but only after the property owner has demonstrated to
the Commission that the historic building, structure or site is incapable of
earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a licensed real estate
appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Commission, based on the Commission's classification on the approved map,
but not less than 60 days nor more than one year. Notice must be posted on the
premises of the building or structure proposed for demolition in a location
clearly visible from the street. In addition, notice must be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least three times before demolition,
with the first publication not more than 15 days after the application for a
permit to demolish is filed, and the final publication at least 15 days before
the date of the permit.
   (D)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under division (C) of this section. If the
certificate of appropriateness is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued
without further delay, and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.13 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Historic buildings, structures, and sites shall be maintained to meet
the applicable requirements established under state statute for buildings
generally so as to prevent the loss of historic material and deterioration of
important character defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any
building, structure, or site, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not
result in a conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color, location, or external visual
appearance of any structure, or part thereof.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.14 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district are
subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic district.
If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.15 PAINT COLORS.
   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district, the city
may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the issuance
of a certificate of appropriateness under §
157.08 before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.16 INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party (as defined in §
157.02) has a private right of action to enforce and prevent violation of
provisions of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the city under this
chapter, and with respect to any building, structure, or site within a historic
district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin, or enforce by restraining
order or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from violating a
provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted under this chapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this chapter, or an ordinance adopted by a unit
under this chapter, had been, or was about to be violated.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgement in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from
the person against whom the judgement was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the circuit or
superior court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.17 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure, or
appurtenance which is begun, continued, or maintained contrary to any
provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation
of this chapter and unlawful. The city may institute a suit for injunction in
the Circuit Court or Superior Court of Porter County to restrain any person or
government unit from violating any provisions of this chapter and to cause such
violation to be prevented, abated, or removed. Such action may also be
instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (C)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with
I.C. 4-22-1.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as follows:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 2-13-06)
CHAPTER 158: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
Registration and Inspection Program
   
158.01   Purpose
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Compliance required; application of chapter
   
158.04   Registration of rental units required
   
158.05   Tenant information
   
158.06   Registration permit fees
   
158.07   Registration permits
   
158.08   Complaint-driven inspections
   
158.09   Inspection fees
   
158.10   Notification of deficiencies to landlord; reinspections
   
158.11   Probation, suspension or revocation of registration permits
   
158.12   Rental Housing Officer
   
158.13   Truth in advertising
   
158.14   Retaliatory eviction prohibited
   
158.15   Rental Housing Fund established
Rental Housing Code
   
158.30   Rental Housing Code established
   
158.31   Intent
   
158.32   Definitions
   
158.33   Structures
   
158.34   Enforcement authority
   
158.35   Duties and powers of the Rental Housing Officer
   
158.36   Notices and order
   
158.37   Scope: tense and definition of terms
   
158.38   Applicability of requirements
   
158.39   Premises condition
   
158.40   Exterior of structures
   
158.41   Interior of structures
   
158.42   Light and ventilation requirements
   
158.43   Space, use, and location requirements
   
158.44   Plumbing facilities and fixtures requirements
   
158.45   Mechanical and electrical requirements
   
158.46   Fire safety
   
158.47   Relationship to other ordinances
 
   
158.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
§ 158.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the registration and
inspection of rental residential property and to facilitate the prevention and
correction of violations of laws and ordinances pertaining to rental
residential property so as to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
the people of the city including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   To protect the public health and safety by insuring rental units
comply with the city’s building codes, property maintenance codes and the
Unified Development Ordinance and all other applicable regulations adopted by
the State of Indiana or other governmental agency.
   (B)   To protect the character and stability of residential neighborhoods.
   (C)   To correct and prevent housing conditions that adversely affect or are
likely to adversely affect safety, general welfare and health of the persons
occupying dwellings.
   (D)   To prevent the overcrowding of rental units.
   (E)   To facilitate the enforcement of minimum standards for maintenance of
existing residential buildings and thus to prevent slums and blight.
   (F)   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT.  Every person at least 18 years of age or younger if emancipated.
   DWELLING UNIT. The abode of a family; a single unit providing complete,
independent facilities for the exclusive use of the household, including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   FAMILY. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   An individual;
      (2)   Two or more individuals related by genetics, marriage, legal
adoption, foster care or guardianship, or other comparable relationship
established by law; or
      (3)   Five or fewer individuals who constitute a relatively permanent
functioning group living as a single housekeeping unit.
   HABITABLE ROOM. Any room meeting the requirements of this chapter for
sleeping, living, or dining purposes excluding such enclosed places as closets,
pantries, bath or toilet rooms, hallways, laundries, storage places, utility
rooms and similar spaces.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A residential building designed for, or modified to
accommodate, more than one independent rental unit.
   OWNER.  Any person having a legal or equitable title in a rental building or
premises.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person. References in the
masculine gender include the feminine and the neuter, in the present tense
include the future, and the singular includes the plural.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land containing a rental building or
rental unit.
   REGISTRATION PERMIT. The permit issued by the city upon registration of each
rental unit.
   RENTAL BUILDING.  A building containing one or more rental units.
   RENTAL HOUSING CODE.  Sections
158.30 through
158.47 of this chapter.
   RENTAL HOUSING OFFICER. That municipal officer charged with the primary
responsibility of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. As set out in
§
158.12 hereof, the City Building Commissioner shall serve as the Rental Housing
Officer.
   RENTAL UNIT. A rented dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the qwner or operator to three or
more persons who are not related by blood or marriage.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   TENANCY AGREEMENT. Includes all agreements, written, oral or implied, and
valid rules and regulations embodying the terms and conditions concerning the
use and occupancy of a rental unit.
   TENANT. Any person entitled to occupy a rental unit under a tenancy
agreement to the exclusion of others.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   No person shall occupy or maintain a rental unit within the city
unless in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter applies
to all rental units located within the city, but shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Occupancy in a single-family, owner occupied dwelling unit.
      (2)   Occupancy in a “group home” or “institutional residential” as those
terms are defined in the City of Valparaiso Unified Development Ordinance.
      (3)   Occupancy in federally subsidized and owned housing complexes which
have multiple on-site units and which are owned and maintained by the federal
government or local housing authority, or scattered site Section 8 housing
units administered by a local housing authority.
      (4)   Occupancy by the purchaser of a dwelling unit under a recorded
contract of sale.
      (5)   Occupancy in a dormitory owned by Valparaiso University or other
institute of higher learning.
      (6)   Transient occupancy in a hotel, motel or other similar lodging.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of each person owning or operating a
dwelling unit that said person claims is exempt from this chapter to produce
such documentation or other information as may be requested by the Rental
Housing Officer or his designee so as to permit the Rental Housing Officer or
designee to determine whether said dwelling unit is exempt.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.04 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL UNITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner of real estate within the city shall use said real estate for
the purpose of erecting or maintaining a rental unit thereon after November 30,
2011, without registering each rental unit with the city. All existing rental
units shall be registered with the city between May 1, 2011, and November 30,
2011. The registration shall be affected by furnishing to the city a complete
and accurate application upon forms prescribed by the city, setting forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner;
      (2)   Address of the owner;
      (3)   Street address of the rental unit;
      (4)   If the owner is not a resident of Porter County, Indiana, or a
county contiguous to Porter County, the name, address and telephone number of
the owner’s agent authorized to receive notification of complaints, damages,
emergencies, substandard conditions or other communications, including service
of process. The address of any and all agents shall be within Porter County or
a contiguous county. Any owner who does not reside in Porter County, Indiana,
or a contiguous county shall be required to designate an agent.
   (B)   The registration application shall be signed by the owner. Whenever
ownership of a rental unit or group or complex of rental units changes, the new
owner shall have the responsibility to report the change in ownership to the
city and pay a $5 administrative fee within 30 days of the change of ownership.
Previously issued registration permits shall automatically expire 30 days
following transfer of title to a registered property. A registration permit
shall otherwise remain in effect until suspended or revoked as set forth in
this chapter. Issuance of a registration permit is not evidence that a property
meets the requirements of this chapter or is otherwise fit for human
habitation.
   (C)   Notification to the owner or his or her agent at the address shown on
the registration application shall constitute sufficient notice pursuant to any
provision of this chapter. Registration of a rental unit shall be evidenced by
issuance of a registration permit. An application for renewal of a registration
permit shall contain the same information as an initial application.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.05 TENANT INFORMATION.
   Each owner of a rental unit shall at all times maintain an up-to-date list
containing the names and contact information for all tenants in each rental
unit owned or operated by the owner. Each owner shall provide the city, upon
ten days written notice, any information from such list determined by the city
to be necessary for any valid legal purpose such as an application for a
warrant to inspect a rental unit, levying a fine against a tenant, or the
giving of any notice to a tenant.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.06 REGISTRATION PERMIT FEES.
   There shall be a $10 registration fee assessed for each rental unit located
within the city. The above-referenced registration fee shall be paid at the
time that the owner submits the registration application to the city.
Collection of the $10 registration fee shall be waived until June 30, 2011.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.07 REGISTRATION PERMITS.
   For all registered rental units the city shall issue a certificate stating
the date of the unit’s registration. The owner of each rental unit shall be
responsible for continuously maintaining a copy of the certificate. Each owner
shall provide the Rental Housing Officer or his or her designee with a copy of
the certificate upon request.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.08 COMPLAINT-DRIVEN INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Each rental unit and/or premises within the city is subject to
inspection by the Rental Housing Officer or his or her designee in accordance
with this chapter. As of January 1, 2012, whenever the Rental Housing Officer
or his or her designee receives information creating a reasonable belief that a
non-exempt rental unit or premises violates any of the standards of this
chapter (including non-registration of a rental unit), the Rental Housing
Officer may conduct an inspection of the rental unit or premises.
   (B)   Unless waived by either the owner or tenant, the following procedure
shall be used to obtain entry to rental units and premises for the purpose of
inspection. The Rental Housing Officer shall cause written notice to be mailed
to the owner or his or her agent of the rental unit or premise setting forth
the date and time scheduled for the inspection together with the appropriate
inspection application. The owner or his or her agent shall have ten days from
the notice issuance date in which to submit a complete and accurate inspection
application to the Rental Housing Officer. In the inspection application, the
owner shall include a current list of tenants for each rental unit to be
inspected and shall indicate whether the owner and all tenants consent to an
inspection of the rental unit(s) or premises.
   (C)   The owner shall be responsible for granting access to each rental unit
or premise to the Rental Housing Officer or his or her designee. In the event
the owner and/or tenant refuses entry to any given rental unit or premise for
inspection pursuant to this chapter, the appropriate court of Porter County
shall be utilized by the city to obtain a warrant for entry and inspection as
provided in this chapter. If the owner and/or tenant does not consent, the
Rental Housing Officer shall request a search warrant from a court of
appropriate jurisdiction to conduct an inspection of the rental unit to
determine whether the rental unit complies with this chapter. The Rental
Housing Officer, or his or her designee, shall conduct an inspection, as
authorized by such search warrant. The Common Council has determined that the
inspections provided in this chapter for all rental units constitutes a
reasonable method to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.09 INSPECTION FEES.
   In the event that no violations (including non-registration of a rental
unit) of this chapter are discovered during the initial inspection, the owner
shall not be charged a fee for the inspection. However, in the event that the
initial inspection reveals any violation of this chapter for which the owner is
responsible the owner shall be charged an inspection fee of $50. This
inspection fee shall be paid by the owner within 30 days of the date of the
initial inspection.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.10 NOTIFICATION OF DEFICIENCIES TO LANDLORD; REINSPECTIONS.
   (A)   In the event any inspection reveals a deficiency with the application
of the codes referenced herein, the Rental Housing Officer shall within ten
days from the date of the inspection notify the owner of the rental unit of the
deficiencies. Such notice of deficiencies shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Shall include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   State the reason or reasons why the notice is being issued
including a reference to any sections of the Rental Housing Code that have been
violated;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with provisions of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Include an explanation of the owner’s right to seek modification or
withdrawal of the notice by petition to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The notice prescribed above shall be deemed to be properly served upon
the owner or his or her agent at the address shown on the registration
application.
   (C)   A re-inspection shall be conducted after the end of the above-
referenced compliance time frame. If the Rental Housing Officer finds that
compliance with all noted violations has not been accomplished, the Rental
Housing Officer may commence proceedings to suspend and/or revoke the
registration permit for the premises.
   (D)   The first re-inspection performed after the expiration of the
compliance time frame shall be assessed a fee of $75 per rental unit to be
inspected. All further re-inspections necessitated by the continued existence
of violations shall be assessed a fee of $200 per rental unit to be inspected.
No registration permits shall be issued until the fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.11 PROBATION, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Probation. Based upon charges filed by the Rental Housing Officer, the
Board of Public Works and Safety may, if it finds the charges to be true,
impose up to three year probation for the registration permit for any premises
found to be under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If there is an adjudication of three or more violations of the City
Code or Indiana Criminal Code on the property within one year, unless the owner
was the party reporting the violation or, unless the owner or owner’s agent has
evicted the tenants;
      (2)   An adjudication that the owner, owner’s agent or person acting on
behalf of the owner has violated §
158.13 or §
158.14 of this chapter.
   (B)   Suspension. Based upon charges filed by the Rental Housing Officer,
the Board of Public Works and Safety may, if it finds the charges to be true,
impose up to a 120-day suspension of the registration permit for any premises
found to be under the following circumstances:
      (1)   One or more additional bases exist that would support the
imposition or probation within one year of any other sanctions being imposed
under this section and the owner has not taken appropriate corrective action.
      (2)   An adjudication that the owner, owner’s agent, or person acting on
behalf of the owner has:
         (a)   Knowingly violated the maximum occupancy provisions set forth in
the rental housing code;
         (b)   Illegally used or allowed the illegal use of non-habitable or
non-occupiable space;
         (c)   Illegally converted space to occupiable or habitable use or
illegally added an additional rental unit to the property;
         (d)   Violated the provisions of §
158.04 (rental certificate required);
         (e)   Failed to correct any code violation at the property affecting
health and safety within the time allowed;
         (f)   Provided the Rental Housing Officer or his or her designee with
any false or materially incomplete information in connection with the property
or the registration permit.
   The suspension shall begin upon the vacation of the rental unit. The owner
shall take all legal steps necessary to vacate the rental unit as soon as
possible.
   (C)   Revocation. Based upon charges filed by the Rental Housing Officer,
the Board of Public Works and Safety may, if it finds the charges to be true,
permanently revoke the registration permit for any premises under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Any occupancy during or payment of rent for the period of any
suspension under §
158.11(B); or
      (2)   Within three years after suspension, any further occurrence or
violation that would be grounds for a suspension of the registration permit.
   (D)   The Rental Housing Officer shall prepare and file charges with the
Board of Public Works and Safety specifying the specific violation and relief
requested. Such charges and notice of a hearing shall be served upon the owner
or his or her agent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the address
of record.
   (E)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall set a date for hearing of
the charges, not less than ten days after mailing of the notice. The Board of
Public Works and Safety shall hear the evidence and argument of the Rental
Housing Officer and the owner. After the hearing, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall make a written decision supported by findings. The decision of the
Board of Public Works and Safety may be appealed to a court of general
jurisdiction in Porter County within 30 days of the decision.
   (F)   Following the permanent revocation of a registration permit by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, an owner may apply to the city for the
issuance of a new registration permit. As part of the application process for a
new registration permit the owner shall permit the Rental Housing Officer to
inspect each rental unit and/or premises wherein the registration permit was
previously revoked to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.12 RENTAL HOUSING OFFICER.
   The City Building Commissioner shall act as the Rental Housing Officer. The
decisions of the Rental Housing Officer may be appealed to the Board of Public
Works and Safety on petition filed with the Board within 20 days after hand
delivery or mailing, whichever occurs first, of the Rental Housing Officer’s
decision.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.13 TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No owner of a rental unit shall incorrectly represent in any
advertisement, sign, or other written or oral form, the occupancy limits of the
rental unit.
   (B)   No tenant of a rental unit advertising for sublease shall incorrectly
represent in any advertisement, sign, or other written or oral form, the
occupancy limits of the rental unit.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.14 RETALIATORY EVICTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter if a court of competent jurisdiction
determines that any owner or his or her agent brought or threatened to bring an
action for possession of a rental unit for the purpose of retaliating against a
tenant for requesting an inspection of a rental unit.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.15 RENTAL HOUSING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Common Council hereby establishes a Rental Housing Fund.
   (B)   The Rental Housing Officer and/or his or her designee(s) shall be
named and have the authority for the collection, allocation and expenditure (as
approved by the Common Council) of all costs associated with the administration
of the rental housing program.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
RENTAL HOUSING CODE
§ 158.30 RENTAL HOUSING CODE ESTABLISHED.
   There is established the Rental Housing Code, the purpose of which is to
protect community neighborhoods and the public health, safety and welfare in
all existing and new rental buildings, rental units and premises by:
   (A)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards for rental buildings and
rental units and premises; for basic equipment and facilities for light,
ventilation, space heating and sanitation; for safety from fire; for space, use
and location; and for safe and sanitary maintenance of rental buildings and
rental units;
   (B)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
rental buildings and rental units; and
   (C)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.31 INTENT.
   (A)   The provisions of the Rental Housing Code shall be construed liberally
to insure the public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by
the maintenance of structures and premises.
   (B)   The provisions of the Rental Housing Code shall not be construed to
prevent the enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe
standards other than are provided herein.
   (C)   All other provisions of the Municipal Code of the city relating to
building maintenance, including, but not limited to,
Chapter 154 of the Municipal Code, entitled Property Maintenance Code, are
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (D)   Any repairs or alterations to a structure, or changes of use therein,
which may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of the Rental
Housing Code shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
this chapter, the Municipal Code and the City of Valparaiso Unified Development
Ordinance.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as abolishing or
impairing existing remedies available to the city relating to the removal or
demolition of any buildings that are deemed dangerous, unsafe or unsanitary.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.32 DEFINITIONS.
   All of the definitions set forth in §
158.02 are hereby incorporated by reference into the Rental Housing Code as if
set forth fully herein. All definitions set forth in §
158.02 shall apply herein unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.33 STRUCTURES.
   (A)   This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of all rental buildings, rental units and premises
and does not replace or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance
which may be additional to or more stringent than the provisions contained
herein for the construction, repair, alteration, or use of structures,
equipment or facilities.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all rental buildings, rental units and
premises whether or not existing at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.34 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Rental Housing Officer and
his or her designee(s) to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.35 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE RENTAL HOUSING OFFICER.
   (A)   General. The Rental Housing Officer shall enforce all of the
provisions of the Rental Housing Code relative to the maintenance of rental
buildings, rental units and premises, except as may otherwise be specifically
provided for by other regulations, ordinances or laws.
   (B)   Notices and orders. The Rental Housing Officer shall issue all
necessary notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions to insure
compliance with the Rental Housing Code requirements for the safety, health and
general welfare of the public.
   (C)   Inspections. In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of
the public, the Rental Housing Officer, or his or her designee, is authorized
to enter any rental building, rental unit or premises at any reasonable time
for the purpose of making inspections and performing duties under this chapter
in accordance with §
158.08 hereof. Provided that, should consent to enter not be voluntarily given,
application for an inspection warrant shall be made pursuant to the provisions
of §
158.08 hereof.
   (D)   Coordination of enforcement. Whenever, in the opinion of a Rental
Housing Officer, or his or her designee, it is deemed necessary or desirable to
have inspections made by any other city department, the Rental Housing Officer,
or his or her designee, shall arrange for such inspections. He or she shall
make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of inspections to
minimize the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer with the other
departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any are
issued. A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of any emergency
order, notice or citation which it determines must be issued.
   (E)   Rule making authority. Upon the recommendation of the Rental Housing
Officer, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall have those powers as may be
necessary in the interest of public safety, health and general welfare, to
adopt and promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement the
provisions of this chapter to secure its intent, but such rules shall not have
the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided in this chapter or of
violating accepted practice involving public safety. Prior to taking effect,
such rules and regulations must be approved by the Common Council by
resolution.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.36 NOTICES AND ORDER.
   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever the Rental
Housing Officer or his or her designee determines that there has been a
violation of this chapter, or has a reasonable belief that a violation has
occurred, the Rental Housing Officer shall give notice to the owner or his or
her agent in conformance with §
158.10.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.37 SCOPE: TENSE AND DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings indicated in this section.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this
subchapter and are defined in the building, electrical, plumbing and/or
mechanical codes otherwise adopted by this code they shall have the same
meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions of
this subchapter or under the provisions of the building, electrical, plumbing
and/or mechanical codes they shall have ascribed to them their ordinarily
accepted meaning, or such as the context herein may imply.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.38 APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
standards for maintenance of rental buildings and rental units within the city.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain such
properties in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not let to
another for occupancy or use premises which do not comply with the following
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.39 PREMISES CONDITION.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas and premises shall be
maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition free from any accumulation
of rubbish or garbage. Should a tenant vacate the premises leaving an
accumulation of abandoned furniture, appliances, clothing, etc., it shall be
the responsibility of the owner to dispose of the same.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water within any structure located
thereon.
   (C)   Weeds. All premises shall be kept free from weeds or plant growth that
is noxious or detrimental to the public health and welfare.
   (D)   Grass height. All grass and weeds over six inches in height on any
premises shall be mowed and the trimmings raked and disposed of properly.
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be structurally sound; shall be properly
surface coated to prevent deterioration; and shall be free of all electrical
and fire hazards and harmful insects and rodent infestation.
   (F)   Outdoor furniture, vending machines and appliances. All furniture
placed outside the rental building shall be waterproof and shall be maintained
in good repair. Vending machines, if any, shall be in an enclosed area not
visible from the public street. No appliances shall be located outside any
rental building.
   (G)   Parking. Except for those premises meeting the definition of a legal,
nonconforming use as set forth in the city's Unified Development Ordinance, all
rental buildings must have parking which complies with the Unified Development
Ordinance of the City of Valparaiso, Indiana. No parking will be allowed on
lawns or on public sidewalks.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.40 EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. The exterior of rental buildings and accessory structures
shall be structurally sound and sanitary and shall not pose a threat to the
health and safety of the occupants.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members of all rental buildings and
accessory structures shall be maintained to prevent deterioration and be
capable of safely bearing the anticipated loads imposed upon them.
   (C)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained
structurally sound and free from open cracks and breaks so as to prevent the
entry of animals and other pests.
   (D)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be maintained free of holes,
breaks, loose or rotting materials. An exterior surface material shall be
maintained, weatherproofed and shall be property surface coated as needed to
prevent deterioration.
   (E)   Roofs. The roof shall be structurally sound, tight, and not have
defects, which admit rain or moisture. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent rainwater or other moisture from causing dampness in the walls or
interior portion of the building.
   (F)   Overhead extensions. All canopies, metal awnings, stairways, fire
escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts and similar overhang extensions shall be
maintained in good repair and be properly anchored. They shall be protected
from the elements and against decay and rust by the periodic application of
weather-coating material such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (G)   Chimneys. All chimneys and similar appurtenances shall be structurally
safe, sound, and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather-coating material such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (H)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch, balcony, and all attached
appurtenances shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of
supporting anticipated loads and shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (I)   Exterior doors, windows, and frames. Every exterior door, window, and
frame shall be constructed and maintained to exclude rain as completely
possible, and to substantially exclude air infiltration.
   (J)   Insect screens. From May 15 to October 15 of each year every window or
other outside opening used for ventilation of habitable rooms shall be supplied
with adequate screening. Every screen door shall be in good working condition,
except that such screens shall not be required for outside doors of rental
units that are air-conditioned, or provide access to common hallways of multi-
family rental facilities.
   (K)   Door hardware. Every door which connects a rental unit with any area
exterior to the unit shall have a functioning locking device, door hinge and
door latch and shall be maintained in good condition. Door locks in rental
units shall be capable of tightly securing the door.
   (L)   Basement hatchways. Every basement or cellar hatchway shall be
constructed and maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface
drainage water into the rental building and shall be secured to prevent
unauthorized entry.
   (M)   Exterior handrails. Every handrail and guardrail shall be maintained
in good condition, be securely fastened and be capable of supporting
anticipated loads.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.41 INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. The interior of a rental building and its equipment shall be
structurally sound and in a sanitary condition so as not to pose a threat to
the health and safety of the occupants and to protect occupants from the
environment. Occupants shall keep that part of the structure or premises which
they occupy or control in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a
rental building shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared
or common areas of the structure and exterior property.
   (B)   Structural members. The supporting structural members of every rental
building shall be structurally sound and not show any evidence of deterioration
which would render them incapable of carrying the anticipated loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. Floors, walls, including windows and doors,
ceilings and other interior surfaces shall be maintained in good, clean and
sanitary condition. Peeling paint, substantially cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, peeling or loose wallpaper and other defective surface conditions
shall be eliminated. All lead based interior painted surfaces shall be
maintained in good condition. Chalky or peeling lead based paint surfaces will
be repaired.
   (D)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every toilet, bathroom and kitchen floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained to be substantially impervious to
water and to permit such floor to be easily kept in clean and sanitary
condition. This does not preclude carpet, provided that it is devoid of mildew,
mold or other unsafe or unsanitary conditions.
   (E)   Free from dampness. In all rental buildings, cellars, basements and
crawl spaces shall be maintained reasonably free from dampness to prevent
conditions conducive to decay or deterioration of the rental building.
   (F)   Sanitation. The interior of every rental building shall be free from
any accumulation of rubbish, refuse or garbage.
   (G)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a rental building shall dispose
of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in
approved containers.
   (H)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every rental building shall
supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the rental
building shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (I)   Storage. Garbage or refuse shall not be allowed to accumulate or be
stored in public halls or stairways.
   (J)   Stairs, ramps, landings, porches, decks, and balconies. All walking
surfaces shall be maintained in good repair and capable of supporting
anticipated loads.
   (K)   Exit facilities. All interior stairs and railings and other exit
facilities of rental buildings shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair by replacing tread and risers that evidence excessive wear or are
broken, warped or loose. Every inside stair shall be constructed and maintained
to be safe to use and capable of supporting the anticipated loads.
   (L)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guardrail shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting anticipated loads and shall be maintained in
good repair.
   (M)   Extermination. All rental buildings and rental units shall be
maintained free of rodent and insect infestation. Where found, rodents or
insects shall be exterminated using approved methods that are not hazardous to
human health. Proper precautions shall be taken to prevent re-infestation after
extermination.
      (1)   Owner. The owner of any rental building shall be responsible for
the extermination within the rental building prior to renting or leasing the
rental unit.
      (2)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or a single
tenant residential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
      (3)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a rental building shall be
responsible for extermination in common or shared areas of the rental building
and exterior premises.
      (4)   Occupant. The occupant of any dwelling unit shall be responsible
for the continued rodent and pest-free condition of the dwelling unit unless
the tenant notifies the owner within 30 days of occupancy of such infestation
and the infestation is not due to a pet in the dwelling unit; and under such
circumstances, the owner shall be responsible for extermination. If infestation
is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent infestation in the dwelling
unit, the occupant shall be responsible for extermination.
      (5)   Defects in structure. The owner of any rental building shall be
responsible for extermination of insects or rodents caused by defects in the
structure.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.42 LIGHT AND VENTILATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for the light and ventilation of a rental building.
All light and ventilation conditions shall comply with the requirements herein
prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. All rental buildings shall provide such light and
ventilation in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not let to
another for occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with the
following requirements of this section.
   (C)   All rooms within rental units shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient in intensity and distribution to permit the safe
use of the room.
   (D)   Every common hall and stairway in rental buildings, other than one and
two family dwellings shall be lighted at all times with at least a 60-watt
standard incandescent light bulb for each 200 feet of floor area or equivalent
illumination, provided that the spacing between lights shall not be greater
than 30 feet. Alternate means of lighting may be used so as to comply with
these minimal lighting standards.
   (E)   For ventilation purposes, every habitable room or connecting habitable
room, collectively referred to as “habitable area” shall have at least one
operable window which can be easily opened and facing directly outdoors or to a
court. Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply with the ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms as required in §
158.42(E) except that a window shall not be required in such rooms equipped
with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical ventilation
system shall discharge to the outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.43 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every rental unit shall contain at least 120 square feet of floor space for
the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of floor
space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be calculated
on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (A)   Sleeping rooms. In every rental unit of two or more rooms, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
space.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-third of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet. The floors
area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet
shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor
area of the room for the purposes of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
   (C)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not be
used for sleeping purposes.
   (D)   Overcrowding. The number of persons occupying a rental unit shall not
create conditions that endanger the life, health, safety or welfare of
occupants.
   (E)   Food preparation. Every space occupied for food preparation purposes
shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare, and serve foods
in sanitary manner.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.44 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
plumbing facilities and fixtures to be provided. All plumbing facilities and
fixtures shall comply with the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they
are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of rental building or rental unit shall
provide and maintain plumbing facilities in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not let to another for occupancy or use any rental unit or
premises which does not comply with this section.
   (C)   Required facilities. Every rental unit shall contain its own kitchen
sink, water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower each of which shall be
maintained in good repair and in a sanitary condition. A kitchen sink shall not
serve as a substitute for the required lavatory.
   (D)   Fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe, sanitary, and functional condition, free from leaks,
obstructions, and defects and capable of function for which fixture was
designed.
   (E)   Water connections. Every plumbing fixture shall be properly connected
to either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, and laundry facilities shall be
supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (F)   Water supply. All water supply inlets for plumbing fixtures owned and
supplied by the owner shall be free from contamination as defined by governing
water regulatory laws. Water supply to plumbing fixtures shall be maintained to
provide sufficient volume and pressure to allow plumbing fixtures to function
properly.
   (G)   Hot water. Hot water heaters shall be properly installed, maintained,
and capable of providing an adequate supply of water at a temperature of not
less than 110ºF. to every required kitchen sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, and
laundry facility. Gas burning water heaters shall not be located in a bedroom,
toilet room, bathroom, or any other room without adequate combustion air
provided. A combination temperature and pressure relief vale and relief vale
discharge pipe shall be required.
   (H)   Drainage. All plumbing stacks, vents, waste and sewer lines shall be
maintained free of leaks, obstructions, and defects and function properly.
Every plumbing fixture shall be connected to a public sewer system or to an
approved private sewage system. A tenant and all occupants shall use the
drainage, heating and sanitary systems in a reasonable manner and the tenant
shall be responsible for all repairs and maintenance resulting from the
negligent or unreasonable usage of such systems.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.45 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided. All
mechanical and electrical facilities shall comply with these requirements
herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the rental building or rental unit shall
provide and maintain mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in
compliance with these requirements. A person shall not let to another for
occupancy or use any rental building or rental unit which do not comply with
the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Heating facilities and mechanical equipment.
      (1)   Residential buildings. Every owner of a rental building or rental
unit, shall supply heat adequate to maintain therein from October 1 through May
1 of the following year, a minimum inside temperature of 68°F, at three feet
above floor level in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, shower rooms, and toilet
rooms or compartments, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., and not
less than 60°F between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in all the rooms.
Provisions of this section shall not apply where the failure to maintain
minimum requirements is caused by a general shortage of fuel, neglect or
malicious act of the occupant, necessary repairs or alterations, or any cause
beyond the control of the owner or occupant.
      (2)   Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances and equipment
shall be properly installed and maintained in safe working condition and shall
be capable of performing the function for which it was designed and intended.
      (3)   Fuel. All fuel-burning equipment shall be connected to an approved
chimney or vent, except for fuel-burning equipment and appliances which are
labeled for unvented operation.
      (4)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible material shall
be maintained.
      (5)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment
shall be maintained in operable condition.
      (6)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
in the fire burning equipment and for ventilation of the space shall be
provided.
      (7)   Fireplace. Fireplaces, and other construction and devices intended
for use similar to a fireplace, shall be stable and structurally safe;
connected to approved chimneys; and equipped with a damper or other approved
device capable of substantially excluding air infiltration.
      (8)   Climate control. Facilities for interior climate control (heating,
cooling and/or humidity) shall be maintained and operated in a continuous
manner in accordance with the designed capacity.
   (D)   Electrical facilities and equipment.
      (1)   Electric service. Every rental unit shall be provided with an
electrical system and contain at least two separate and remote receptacle
outlets.
      (2)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring, and appliances
shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition.
      (3)   Lighting. All public hallways, stairways, kitchens, bathrooms,
laundry rooms, and mechanical equipment rooms shall contain at least one
operable electric lighting fixture.
      (4)   Ground fault interruptor protection. Any newly remodeled bathroom
or newly installed kitchen receptacle shall have ground fault interruptor
protection.
      (5)   Electrical system hazards. In rental buildings where the electrical
system constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, improper wiring or installation, improper fusing,
insufficient receptacle and lighting outlets, deterioration or damage, or
similar reasons, the rental housing officer, shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the hazard.
      (6)   Elevators. In rental buildings equipped with elevators, State of
Indiana inspection certificates shall be displayed in accordance with State of
Indiana Code and at least one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all
times when the rental building is occupied. Rental buildings equipped with only
one elevator shall be allowed to take elevator temporarily out of service for
service or maintenance.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.46 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum fire
safety facilities and equipment required. All rental buildings shall be
constructed and maintained to prevent and avoid fire hazards, and in a manner
conducive to fire safety. All fire safety facilities and equipment shall comply
with the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of all rental buildings shall provide and
maintain such fire facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements and the Fire Prevention Code. A person shall not let to another
for occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with following
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Means of egress.
      (1)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall
be provided from the interior of a rental building to the exterior of a street,
a yard, court, or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
      (2)   Direct exits. Every rental unit shall have access directly to the
outside or to a common corridor, and every sleeping room shall have an approved
direct means of egress to the outside.
      (3)   Locked doors. All doors in the required means of egress shall be
readily openable from the inner side. Exits from rental units shall not lead
through other such units, or through toilet rooms or bathrooms.
      (4)   Exit signs. All exit signs shall be illuminated and visible.
   (D)   Accumulations and storage.
      (1)   Accumulations. Waste, refuse or other materials shall not be
allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes,
or other means of egress.
      (2)   Flammable matter. Highly flammable or explosive matter, such as
paints, volatile oils, and cleaning fluids, or combustible refuse, such as
waste paper, boxes and rags shall not be accumulated or stored on residential
premises except in reasonable quantities consistent with normal usage.
      (3)   Residential unit. A rental unit shall not be located within a
structure containing an establishment handling, dispensing, or storing
flammable liquids with a flash point of 110° F. or lower,
   (E)   Fire resistance ratings.
      (1)   General. Except for legal, non-conforming uses, the required fire-
resistant rating of fire resistant rated walls, ceilings, floors, fire stops,
shaft enclosures, and partitions shall be maintained.
      (2)   Doors. All fire and smoke-stop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition and shall not be blocked or obstructed.
   (F)   Fire protection systems.
      (1)   General. All fire protection systems and equipment shall be
maintained in proper operating condition at all times and in accordance with
Indiana Fire Code.
      (2)   Fire alarms. Fire alarms and detecting systems shall be maintained
and be suitable for their respective purposes.
      (3)   Sprinkler heads. Sprinkler heads of fire suppression systems, if
required, shall be clean, free of corrosion and paint, and not bent or damaged.
      (4)   Standpipe systems. Hose stations shall be identified and
accessible. The hose shall be in proper position, ready for operation, dry, and
free of deterioration.
      (5)   Smoke detectors required. The owner of each rental building shall
supply all required operational smoke detectors in all rental buildings and
rental units. The tenant shall ensure that each smoke detector in the rental
unit remains functional and not disabled. If the smoke detector is battery
operated, the tenant shall replace batteries in the smoke detectors as
necessary. If smoke detectors are hard-wired and/or not operational, the tenant
shall immediately notify the owner of the rental building.
      (6)   Type and placement of smoke detectors. The type, placement and
maintenance of smoke detectors shall conform to the requirements of I.C. 22-11-
18-1 et seq., and as that statute may, from time to time, be amended.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.47 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   It is the intent of the Common Council that this chapter provide a
comprehensive regulatory program for rental housing within the city. Provisions
of this chapter are to be interpreted to be compatible with all other
ordinances of the city, whether in effect as of the date of the adoption of
this chapter or thereafter adopted. When this chapter conflicts with other
ordinances, private covenants, commitments, permits, agreements, state laws,
federal laws, or other regulations, the greater restriction shall control.
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to probation, suspension and revocation of a registration permit
as set forth in §
158.11 of this chapter, the Board of Public Works and Safety may impose the
following penalties on any and all persons found to be in violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   For submitting any other false or materially incomplete information on
an application or any other information submitted under this chapter, a fine of
up to $500, unless the violator has been convicted of a previous violation for
submitting any other false or materially incomplete information on an
application or any other information submitted under this chapter, in which
case the fine may be up to $2,500;
   (B)   For failure to maintain a rental certificate pursuant to §
158.07, a fine of up to $500, unless the violator has been convicted of a
previous violation for failing to maintain a rental certificate, in which case
the fine shall be up to $1,000;
   (C)   For failure to timely sign or submit a complete registration
application, any tenant information requested pursuant to §
158.05 or an inspection application, a fine of up to $100, each day a violation
of this provision exists or continues to exist constituting separate and
distinct violation of this chapter;
   (D)   For knowingly committing, permitting or allowing any overoccupancy as
set forth in §
158.43, a fine of up to $200, unless the violator has been convicted of a
previous violation involving overoccupancy, in which case the fine shall be up
to $1,000, with each day a violation of this provision exists or continues to
exist constituting a separate and distinct violation of this chapter;
   (E)   For rental of any dwelling unit without first obtaining or continuing
to have a valid registration permit, a fine of up to $100, unless the violator
has been convicted of previous violation involving renting without a
registration permit, in which case the fine shall be up to $500, with each day
a violation of this provision exists or continues to exist constituting a
separate and distinct violation of this chapter;
   (F)   For bringing or threatening to bring an action for possession of a
rental until for the purpose of retaliating against a tenant for requesting an
inspection of a rental unit in violation of §
158.14, a fine of up to $2,500;
   (G)   For a violation of any provision of the Rental Housing Code (§§
158.30 through
158.47), a fine of up to $500, unless the violator has been convicted of a
previous violation of the Rental Housing Code, in which case the fine may be up
to $2,500. Each day a violation of the Rental Housing Code exists or continues
to exist constitutes a separate and distinct violation of the Rental Housing
Code.
   (H)   For violation of any other provision of this chapter, a fine of up to
$100, for each day after which a correction was to be made pursuant to §
158.10(A)(4).
(Ord. 14-2011, passed 4-11-11)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1989 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite           Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.06
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
3                   36.03
3-5-2-40.1          36.03
3-5-10-9            30.04
3-5-10-10           30.04
3-5-10-11           30.04
4-13-18-5           35.85
4-13-18-6           35.85
4-21.5-3-7          94.010,
                    155.20
4-22-1              157.17
5-13-3-1            130.12
5-14-1.5-1          130.12
5-15-11.1 et seq.   36.21
5-16-11-5.5         36.21
5-16-11-6           36.21
5-22                35.30,
                    36.05
6-3.5-10 et seq.    70.17
6-3.5-10(e)         70.17
6-3.5-10-2(c)       70.17
6-3.5-11 et seq.    70.17
6-3.5-11-2(c)       70.17
6-3.5-11-2(d)       70.17
6-3.5-11-4          70.17
7.1-1-3-5           71.33
7.1-1-3-13          71.33
7.1-3-20-1          97.01
7.1-3-20-7          97.01
7.1-5-1-1           93.16
7.1-5-1-3           93.16
7.1-5-7-7           93.16
7.1-5-7-8           93.16
7.1-5-7-15          93.16
7.1-5-10-5          93.16
7.1-5-10-7          93.16
7.1-5-10-15         93.16
8-1.5-4             50.01,
                    50.19
8-1.5-4-2           33.20
8-23-30             70.17
9-13-2-3            90.13
9-13-2-105          71.33
9-13-2-196          72.12,
                    72.37
9-17-2-1 et seq.    115.01
9-21-20-1           70.01
9-21-20-2           70.01
9-21-20-3           70.01
14-3-3.4-10         157.02
14-28-1             55.05
14-28-1-26          55.05
14-28-4             55.01
15-16-8-1           93.15
16-18-2-110         70.01
16-22-8             70.01
18-6-4.5-1 et seq.  33.17
22-2 et seq.        150.06
22-3-5-1 et seq.    150.06
22-4-26-1           150.06
22-9 et seq.        130.12
22-9.5 et seq.      130.12
22-11-3.1-1         150.01
22-11-3.1-2         150.01
22-11-3.1-3         150.01
22-11-3.1-4         150.01
22-11-14            94.130
22-11-14-1          98.01
22-11-14-2          98.02
22-11-14-3.5        98.02
22-11-14-4.5        98.06
22-11-14-7          98.06
22-11-14-8(a)       98.01
22-11-14-10.5(c)(3) 98.02
22-11-14-11         98.06
22-12               155.20
22-12-1-4           155.03
22-12-1-5           155.03
22-12-1-7           155.03
22-12-1-14          155.03
22-12-1-16          155.03
22-12-1-17          155.03
22-12-1-18          155.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)   155.22
22-12-1-24          155.03
22-12-1-26          155.03
22-12-7             155.06
22-13               155.20
22-13-2-3(b)        155.21
22-13-2-6           155.05
22-13-2-7           155.20
22-13-2-7(b)        155.21
22-13-2-9           155.05
22-13-2-11          155.06
22-14               155.20
22-14-2-4           94.008
22-15               155.20
22-15-3             155.10
22-15-4             155.05
24-4-2-1 et seq.    93.16
25-26-13-4.1        93.16
26-8-17-10          94.003
31-33-1-1           93.16
32-25-2-9           155.03
34-13-2—34-13-4   35.60
                    94.011,
34-28-5             99.99,
                    100.99
34-28-5-4           99.99,
                    100.99
35-8-13             36.21
35-8-17-9           94.009
35-31.5-2-78        93.16
35-31.5-2-321       93.16
35-42-2-1           93.16
35-42-2-2           93.16
35-44-3-8           94.009,
                    94.030
35-44-8             94.030
35-44.1-3-1         93.16
35-45-1-3           93.16
35-45-1-5           93.16
35-45-2-2           93.16
35-45-4-2           93.16
35-45-4-3           93.16
35-45-4-4           93.16
35-45-5-1           93.16
35-45-4-4           93.16
35-45-9-3           93.16
35-45-9-4           93.16
35-45-9-5           93.16
35-46-1-4           93.16
35-46-1-8           93.16
35-48-1-9.3         93.16
35-48-4-1           93.16
35-48-4-1.1         93.16
35-48-4-1.2         93.16
35-48-4-1.5         93.16
35-48-4-2           93.16
35-48-4-3           93.16
35-48-4-4           93.16
35-48-4-10          93.16
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99
36-1-4-11           54.01
                    30.04,
36-1-5-4            155.21,
                    155.22
36-1-6-4            99.99,
                    100.99
36-1-6-9            155.20
36-1-12             36.05
36-4-5-6            30.04
36-4-6-1 et seq.    31.01
36-4-6-5(p)         30.04
36-4-6-6            31.04
36-4-6-10—36-4-6-131.02
36-4-8-3            36.21
36-4-8-7            35.18
36-4-8-13           36.21
36-4-9-4            33.19
36-4-9-9(c)         33.15
36-4-9-12           33.18
36-4-10             32.02
36-4-11-4           32.02
36-5-2-2            10.15
36-7-4              55.01
36-7-4 et seq.      55.06
36-7-4-1 et seq.    33.17
36-7-4-100 et seq.  54.01
36-7-4-207          36.21
36-7-4-209          31.04
36-7-4-216          36.21
36-7-4-223          36.21
36-7-4-902          31.04
36-7-4-905          36.21
36-7-4-909          36.21
36-7-9-1 et seq.    93.16
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-28156.01
36-7-9-2            156.02
36-7-9-4            156.03,
                    156.05
36-7-9-5            156.03
36-7-9-7            156.04
36-7-9-14           156.08
36-7-9-14(c)        156.08
36-7-9-25           93.16
36-7-12-1 et seq.   33.17
36-7-12-5           31.04
36-7-12-14          36.21
36-7-12-16          36.21
36-7-13-1 et seq.   33.17
36-7-14-7           31.04
36-7-14-9           36.21
36-7-14-10          36.21
36-7-18-9           36.21
36-7-18-11          36.21
36-7-23             70.17
36-8-6-1 et seq.    33.25
36-8-7-1 et seq.    33.24
36-8-8-1 et seq.    33.24,
                    33.25
36-8-17             155.16
36-8-17-5           94.006
36-8-17-8           94.007
36-8-19-8.5         94.016
36-10-4             33.16
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1989 CODE
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section
                  30.02,
                  31.01,
—               31.05,
                  32.01—
                  32.03
Schedule B        Chapter 73, Schedule VI
Schedule C        Chapter 73, Schedule I
Schedule D        Chapter 73, Schedule II
Schedule E        Chapter 73, Schedule IV
Schedule F        Chapter 73, Schedule V
Schedule G        Chapter 73, Schedule VII; Chapter 74, Schedule I
Traffic Exhibit A Chapter 71, Appendix A
Traffic Exhibit B Chapter 71, Appendix B
Traffic Exhibit C Chapter 71, Appendix C
10.01             30.01
                  32.01,
                  33.01,
10.02             33.02,
                  33.15—
                  33.20
10.03             32.02
10.04             31.01—
                  31.04
10.05             33.24,
                  33.25
11.02             30.03
11.03             30.03
11.04             30.03
11.05             30.03
11.06             30.03
12.01             33.21
12.02             33.21
12.03             33.21
12.04             33.21
13.01             33.22
13.02             33.22
13.03             33.22
14.01             37.01
14.02             37.02
14.03             37.03
14.04             37.04
14.05             37.10
14.06             37.05
14.07             37.10
14.08             37.06
14.09             37.07
14.10             37.08
14.11             37.09
15.01             33.24
15.02             33.24
15.03             33.24
15.04             33.24
16.01             33.25
16.02             33.25
16.03             33.25
16.04             33.25
16.05             33.25
16.06             33.25
18.01             11.01
19.01             150.02
19.02             150.02
19.03             150.02
19.04             150.02
19.05             150.02
19.06             150.02
19.07             150.02
19.08             150.02
19.09             150.02
19.10             150.02
19.11             150.02
19.12             150.02
19.13             150.02
19.14             150.02
19.15             150.02
19.16             150.02
24.01             34.01
24.02             34.01
24.04             34.01
24.05             34.01
25.01             34.02
25.02             34.02
25.03             34.02
25.04             34.02
25.05             34.02
29.01             33.23
29.02             33.23
29.03             33.23
29.04             33.23
29.05             33.23
30.01             155.01
30.02             155.02
30.03             155.04
30.04             155.05
30.05             155.05
30.06             155.21
30.08             155.08
30.09             155.12
30.12             155.11
30.14             155.16
30.16             155.19
30.17             155.13
30.19             155.23
30.20             155.20,
                  150.99
30.22             155.07
31.02             156.01 
31.06             156.02
31.07             156.05
31.08             156.06
31.09             156.08
32.01             150.01
32.02             150.01
32.03             150.01
32.05             150.01
32.06             150.01
32.07             150.01
32.08             150.01
32.09             150.01
32.10             150.01
32.11             150.01
33.01             150.03
33.02             150.03
33.03             150.03
33.04             150.03
33.05             150.03
33.07             150.03
40.01             110.01
40.02             110.02
40.03             110.03,
                  111.02
40.04             110.01
41.01             111.01
41.02             111.02
41.04             111.03
42.01             150.04
42.02             150.04
42.03             150.04
42.04             150.04
43.01             112.01
43.02             112.02
43.03             112.02 
43.04             112.02
44.01             113.01
44.02             113.02
44.03             113.04
44.04             113.05
44.05             113.03
44.06             113.03
45.01             114.01
45.02             114.02
45.03             114.03
45.04             114.04
45.05             114.05
45.06             114.06
45.07             114.07
45.08             114.08
45.09             114.08
45.10             114.08
45.11             114.09
45.12             114.10
45.13             114.11
45.14             114.12
45.15             114.13
45.16             114.14
45.18             114.15
45.19             115.02
45.20             115.01
45.21             115.03
46.01             116.01
46.02             116.02
46.03             116.03
46.04             116.04
46.05             116.04
46.06             116.05
46.07             116.06
46.08             116.07
46.09             116.08
46.10             116.09
46.11             116.10
46.12             116.11 
46.13             116.12
46.14             116.13
46.15             116.14
47.01             117.02
47.02             117.03
47.03             117.04
47.04             117.04
47.05             117.05
47.06             117.01
48.01             118.01
48.02             118.02
48.03             118.03
60.01             70.01
60.02             70.02
60.03             70.03
60.04             70.04
60.05             70.05
60.06             70.04
60.07             71.34
60.08             72.11
60.09             70.06
60.10             70.07
60.11             71.01
60.12             70.10
60.13             71.01
60.14             71.02
60.15             71.02
60.17             71.31
60.18             71.31
60.19             70.08
60.20             71.06
60.21             70.09
61.01             71.03
61.02             71.03
61.03             71.04
61.04             71.04
61.05             71.05 
61.06             71.07
61.07             71.08
61.08             71.09
61.09             71.10
61.10             71.11
61.11             71.12
61.12             71.13
61.13             71.14
61.14             71.15
61.15             71.16
61.16             71.17
61.17             71.18
61.18             71.17
61.19             71.19
61.20             71.20
61.21             71.21
61.22             71.22
61.23             71.23
61.24             71.24
61.25             71.25
61.26             71.26
61.27             71.26
61.28             71.27
61.29             71.28
61.30             71.16
61.31             71.29
61.32             71.16
61.33             71.30
61.34             70.14
62.01             72.01
62.02             72.02
62.03             72.03
62.04             72.04
62.05             72.05
62.06             72.06
62.07             72.07
62.08             72.08
62.09             72.09
62.11             72.10
63.01             72.20
63.02             Chapter 74, Schedule II
63.03             72.21
63.04             72.22
63.05             72.23
63.06             72.24
63.08             72.25
63.09             72.26
63.10             72.27
63.11             72.28
63.12             72.28
63.13             72.29
63.14             72.30
63.15             72.30
63.16             72.31
63.17             72.36
63.18             72.32
63.19             70.15
63.20             72.33
63.21             72.34
63.22             72.34
63.23             72.34
63.24             72.34
63.25             72.34
63.26             72.34
63.27             72.35
63.28             72.34
64.01             70.10
64.02             70.10
64.03             70.10
64.04             70.10
64.05             70.10
64.06             70.10
64.07             70.10
64.08             70.10
64.09             70.10
65.01             71.32
65.02             71.32
65.03             71.32
65.04             71.32
66.01             70.11
66.02             70.11
66.03             Chapter 73, Schedule III
66.04             70.11
66.05             70.11
66.06             70.11
67.01             70.12
67.02             70.12
67.03             70.12
67.04             70.12
67.05             70.12
67.06             70.12
67.07             70.12
67.08             70.12
67.09             70.12
67.10             70.12
67.11             70.12
67.17             70.12
67.18             70.12
68.01             71.33
68.02             71.33
68.03             71.33
68.04             71.33
68.05             71.33
70.01             53.01
75.01             151.01
75.02             151.02
75.03             151.03
75.04             151.04
75.05             151.05
75.06             151.06
75.07             151.06
75.08             151.07
75.09             151.06
75.10             151.08
75.11             151.09
75.12             151.10
75.13             151.11
75.14             151.12
75.15             151.13
75.16             151.14
75.17             151.15
75.18             151.16
75.19             151.17
75.20             151.18
75.21             151.19
75.22             151.20
76.01             90.01
76.02             90.02
76.03             90.03
76.05             90.04
76.06             90.05
76.07             90.06
76.08             90.07
76.09             90.08
76.10             90.09
76.11             90.10
76.12             90.11
76.13             90.12
76.14             90.13
77.01             35.50
77.02             35.50
77.03             35.50
77.04             35.50
78.01             93.01
78.02             93.01
78.03             93.01
78.04             93.01
78.05             93.01
78.06             93.01
78.07             93.01
78.08             93.01
78.09             93.01
90.01             95.01
90.02             95.02
90.03             95.03,
                  95.04
91.01             95.15
91.02             95.16
91.03             95.17
91.04             95.18
91.05             95.19
91.06             95.20
91.07             95.21
91.08             95.22
92.01             95.35
92.02             95.36
92.03             95.37
92.04             95.38
92.05             95.39
92.06             95.40
92.07             95.41
92.08             95.45
92.09             95.46
92.11             95.47
93.01             72.50
93.02             72.51
93.03             72.52
93.04             72.53
93.05             72.54
100.01            51.01
100.02            51.02
100.03            51.03
100.04            51.04
100.07            51.05
100.08            51.06
100.09            51.07
100.10            51.08
100.11            51.09
100.12            51.10
100.13            51.11
100.14            51.12
100.15            51.13
101.01            51.14
101.02            51.14
101.03            51.14
101.04            51.14
101.05            51.14
101.06            51.14
101.07            51.14
101.08            51.14
101.09            51.14
101.10            51.14
101.11            51.14
101.12            51.14
101.13            51.14
101.14            51.14
101.15            51.14
102.01            51.50
102.02            51.51
102.03            51.53
102.10            51.58
102.11            51.59
102.13            51.60
102.14            51.61
102.15            51.62
102.17            51.63
102.18            51.64 
102.19            51.65
102.20            51.66
102.21            51.67
103.01            51.25
103.02            51.26
103.03            51.27
103.04            51.28
103.05            51.29
103.06            51.30
103.07            51.31
103.08            51.32
103.09            51.33
103.11            51.34
103.12            51.35
103.13            51.35
103.14            51.36
103.15            51.37
103.18            51.38
104.01            50.01
104.02            50.02
104.03            50.02
104.04            50.02
104.05            50.02
104.06            50.02
104.07            50.03
104.08            50.04
104.09            50.05
104.10            50.06
104.11            50.07
104.12            50.07
104.14            50.08
105.01            52.001
105.02            52.002
105.03            52.003
105.04            52.006
105.05            52.006
105.07            52.020
105.08            52.021
105.09            52.022
105.10            52.023
105.11            52.024
105.13            52.025
105.14            52.025
105.16            52.025
105.17            52.035
105.18            52.036
105.19            52.037
105.20            52.038
105.21            52.039
105.22            52.040
105.23            52.041
105.24            52.042
105.25            52.043
105.26            52.044
105.27            52.045
105.28            52.046
105.29            52.047
105.30            52.048
105.32            52.060
105.33            52.061
105.34            52.062
105.35            52.063
105.36            52.064
105.37            52.065
105.38            52.066
105.39            52.067
105.40            52.068
105.41            52.069
105.42            52.070
105.43            52.071
105.44            52.072
105.46            52.085
105.47            52.086
105.48            52.087
105.49            52.088
105.50            52.089
105.51            52.090
105.52            52.005
105.53            52.115
105.55            52.116
105.56            52.117
105.57            52.118,
                  52.135
105.58            52.119
105.59            52.120
105.60            52.121
105.61            52.122
105.62            52.123
105.65            52.136
105.66            52.137
105.67            52.138
105.69            52.100
105.70            52.101
105.71            52.102
105.73            52.004
110.01            130.01
110.02            130.02
110.03            130.03
110.06            130.04
110.07            130.05
110.08            130.06
110.09            130.07
110.10            130.08
110.11            130.09
110.12            130.07
110.13            130.10
111.01            91.01
111.02            91.02
111.10            91.07
111.12            91.10
114.01            92.01
114.02            92.02
114.03            92.03
114.04            92.04
114.05            92.05
114.06            92.06
114.07            92.06
114.08            92.06
114.09            92.07
114.10            92.08
114.11            92.09
114.12            92.10
114.13            92.11
114.14            92.12
114.15            92.05,
                  92.13
114.16            92.14
114.18            92.15 
                  92.16,
114.19            92.23,
                  92.24
114.20            92.17
114.21            92.18
114.22            92.19
114.23            92.20
114.24            92.21
114.25            92.22
115.01            34.02
116.01            35.15
116.02            35.16
116.03            35.17
116.04            35.18
117.1.1           35.30
117.1.2           35.30
117.1.3           35.30
117.1.4           35.30
117.2.1           35.31
117.2.2           35.31
117.2.3           35.31
117.2.4           35.31
117.2.5           35.31
117.3.1           35.32
117.3.2           35.32
117.3.3           35.32
117.3.4           35.32
117.4.1           35.33
117.4.2           35.33
117.4.3           35.33
117.4.4           35.33
117.4.5           35.33
117.5.1           35.34
117.5.2           35.34
117.5.3           35.34
117.5.4           35.34
117.6             35.35
117.6.1           35.35
117.6.2           35.35
117.6.3           35.35
117.7.1           35.36 
117.7.2           35.36
117.7.3           35.36
117.8             35.37
117.8.1           35.37
117.8.2           35.37
117.8.3           35.37
117.8.4           35.37
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     70.09;
                     70.12—
                     70.14;
                     71.01;
                     71.02;
                     71.05;
                     71.11;
                     72.02;
                     72.08;
                     72.21—
—      - -         72.25;
                     72.28;
                     72.29;
                     72.31;
                     72.34;
                     72.51;
                     72.52; Chapter 73, Schedule III; Chapter 74, Schedule I;
                     92.12;
                     93.15;
                     95.35;
                     95.46;
                     150.02
—      6-27-94     72.36
                     70.01—
                     70.10;
—      4-8-96      70.14;
                     71.01—
                     71.31;
                     71.34; Chapter 71, Appendices A, B and C
—      6-10-96     95.01—
                     95.04
—      9-23-96     70.14
64       - -96       155.21
65       12-16-96    72.21,
                     72.34
2        1-27-97     72.36
—      5-11-98     51.27
—      7-13-98     92.01—
                     92.24
                     52.001—
                     52.006,
                     52.020—
                     52.025,
                     52.035—
                     52.048,
                     52.060—
—      7-27-98     52.072,
                     52.085—
                     52.090,
                     52.100—
                     52.102,
                     52.115—
                     52.123,
                     52.135—
                     52.138
—      - -01       50.01—
                     50.19
9        3-26-01     51.28
11, 2001 4-23-01     35.100—
                     35.102
                     92.18,
—      4-8-02      92.19,
                     92.25
14-2003  3-24-03     156.01 -
                     156.09
16-2003  3-24-03     150.02
17-2003  3-24-03     34.03
25-2003  6-23-03     150.01
                     32.04,
1-2004   1-26-04     33.14,
                     33.15
10-2004  3-22-04     70.16
14-2004  4-12-04     34.01
22-2004  6-28-04     35.75
23-2004  6-14-04     70.16
32-2004  9-27-04     37.11
38-2004  11-22-04    94.015
                     91.01 -
4-2005   2-28-05     91.23,
                     91.99
                     155.01 -
7-2005   2-28-05     155.23,
                     150.99
8-2005   2-28-05     150.05
                     53.01,
                     53.10 -
21-2005  4-25-05     53.24,
                     53.35,
                     53.99
22-2005  5-9-05      53.05
26-2005  5-9-05      53.01,
                     53.05
27-2005  6-13-05     155.09
28-2005  6-27-05     150.01
29-2005  6-13-05     94.040
32-2005  7-11-05     Adopting Ordinance
                     36.01 -
37-2005  9-11-05     36.06,
                     36.20 -
                     36.22
40-2005  8-22-05     35.75
46-2005  11-14-05    51.50 -
                     51.67
2-2006   2-13-06     94.040
                     157.01 -
3-2006   2-13-06     157.17,
                     157.99
5-2006   2-13-06     94.040
9-2006   3-27-06     92.01 -
                     92.26
                     37.03,
25-2006  6-10-06     37.04,
                     37.05,
                     37.10
27-2006  7-26-06     35.75
40-2006  9-11-06     54.01 -
                     54.12
                     97.01 -
49-2006  12-4-06     97.13,
                     97.99
50-2006  12-18-06    51.27
                     97.01 -
15-2007  3-12-07     97.13,
                     97.99
27-2007  8-27-07     94.170 -
                     94.177
46-2007  11-26-07    Adopting Ordinance
13-2008  5-12-08     72.12
                     98.01 -
15, 2008 4-28-08     98.06,
                     98.99
17-2008  5-12-08     154.01,
                     154.02
20, 2008 5-12-08     155.15,
                     155.99
21, 2008 5-12-08     156.99
                     55.01 -
26-2008  7-14-08     55.07,
                     55.20 -
                     55.25
40-2008  11-10-08    72.37
43-2008  12-8-08     Adopting Ordinance
8-2009   3-9-09      153.01
9-2009   3-9-09      153.01
11-2009  3-23-09     150.01
16, 2009 7-27-09     72.70
22-2009  8-10-09     153.01
30, 2009 10-12-09    35.75,
                     70.16
33-2009  10-26-09    150.05
16-2010  4-26-10     153.01
22-2010  7-26-10     130.11,
                     130.99
24-2010  7-26-10     91.02,
                     91.16
                     72.08,
                     72.13,
                     72.20 -
26-2010  8-23-10     72.22,
                     72.27,
                     72.34,
                     72.36
27-2010  8-23-10     Ch. 74, Schedules II,
                     III
32-2010  10-11-10    94.172
                     99.01,
33-2010  9-27-10     99.02,
                     99.99
7, 2011  2-14-11     153.01
                     158.01 -
                     158.15,
14-2011  4-11-11     158.30 -
                     158.47,
                     158.99
18-2011  6-13-11     36.02,
                     36.03
19, 2011 6-27-11     38.01 -
                     38.04
21, 2011 6-27-11     Adopting Ordinance
24-2011  7-11-11     153.01
29-2011  10-10-11    38.03
30-2011  11-14-11    50.02
11, 2012 3-12-12     153.01
13, 2012 4-23-12     35.15 -
                     35.17
                     36.02,
16, 2012 6-25-12     36.03,
                     36.05
                     53.01,
                     53.05,
                     53.10,
                     53.12 -
                     53.15,
                     53.17,
21-2012  8-27-12     53.19,
                     53.20,
                     53.22,
                     53.23,
                     53.35,
                     53.36,
                     53.99
25-2012  11-12-12    31.04
31, 2012 12-17-12    153.01
                     100.01,
13-2013  5-13-13     100.02,
                     100.99
14-2013  7-8-13      150.05
38, 2014 12-8-14     153.01
12-2015  6-22-15     72.71
6, 2016  6-13-16     35.85 -
                     35.95
9, 2016  5-23-16     130.12
10-2016  6-13-16     70.17
13-2016  6-27-16     91.24
27-2016  12-12-16    91.25
                     101.01 -
19-2017  1-8-18      101.06,
                     101.99
20-2017  1-8-18      94.075,
                     94.999
11-2018  5-14-18     35.75
15-2018  8-27-18     72.70
16-2019  8-12-19     150.06
23, 2019 10-14-19    153.01
25-2019  10-28-19    51.39
26-2019  10-28-19    50.20
27-2019  10-14-19    51.15
                     102.01 -
31, 2019 11-25-19    102.06,
                     102.99
3, 2020  3-30-20     38.02,
                     38.03
                     102.01 -
4, 2020  3-30-20     102.06,
                     102.99
5, 2020  3-30-20     94.172
6, 2020  3-30-20     94.016
7, 2020  3-9-20      51.15
9-2020   8-10-20     96.01 -
                     96.05
7, 2021  4-26-21     35.100—
                     35.102
16-2021  7-26-21     93.16
17-2021  7-26-21     72.70,
                     72.71
21, 2021 8-23-21     71.35
                     53.01—
                     53.05,
                     53.10—
19, 2022 9-12-22     53.24,
                     53.35,
                     53.36,
                     53.99
20, 2022 9-12-22     93.15,
                     154.02
25, 2022 11-14-22    30.03,
                     30.04
9-2023   2-27-23     91.26
21, 2023 6-26-23     53.05,
                     53.35
                    
 
